

401 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 4; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND JOURNAL;
Inventing a Science and Technology Museum

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER; E-mail address: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA has the Franklin Institute. San Francisco has its Exploratorium. Pittsburgh has the Carnegie Center. Columbus, Ohio, with a population of 1.1 million, recently replaced its 35-year-old science center with a new, $125 million state-of-the-art facility.
Major hands-on science museums, it seems, are everywhere, except on Long Island. That irked Art Rossoff, 77, of Moriches, so much that he decided to do something about it. 
 "There is nothing appropriate to Long Island's population nor appropriate to its high-tech economy and certainly not appropriate to its aspirations to be another Silicon Valley," Mr. Rossoff said, discounting pocket museums like the North Shore Science and Technology Center in Shoreham-Wading River and the Science Museum of Long Island in Port Washington as too small. The Hall of Science in Flushing Meadow, he asserted, belongs to Queens.
"I decided Long Island had to have one," Mr. Rossoff said, having already visited science museums nearly everyplace else.
So Mr. Rossoff, a retired engineer and former assistant to the president of Polytechnic University, began to gather local volunteers and enlist industrial and government support for Limsat, the Long Island Museum of Science and Technology.
His long-term goal is to spawn a new generation of home-grown engineers and scientists, the solution to a serious shortage for industry throughout Long Island.
"If you turn kids on to science," Mr. Rossoff said, "it stands to reason they are going to pursue it in terms of career."
Two years ago, Nassau County agreed to provide the space and make the science center part of phase two at the Museums at Mitchel Center, said Ed Smith, planning coordinator for the complex, which will share a 75,000-square-foot addition with an aerospace adventure camp. The second stage also includes the Long Island Children's Museum, the Firefighter's Museum and Safety Center, Nunley's Carousel and an exterior plaza. Construction will take two and a half years.
In July, the strategic concept plan for a 40,000-square-foot space, with a common lobby with the Cradle of Aviation Museum and the IMAX Dome Theater, will be complete. And after wooing corporate executives at leadership breakfasts, said Steve Barre, who took over as Limsat's president last summer, the nonprofit organization will embark on a $20 million to $30 million capital campaign to develop, build and install exhibits.
In a sense, Limsat won't really be a museum at all, Mr. Barre said, but an educational science center devoted to exploring Long Island's technologies. Unlike archival exhibits that dwell on the past, it will be an investment in the future.
Interactive exhibits will focus on biotechnology, electronics, computer software and interactive graphics, areas important to the 1,500 medium- and small-sized technology companies in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, Mr. Barre said.
"I see it as a dynamic place; the exhibits will change as the technology changes," said Mr. Barre, 60, president of the Servo Corporation of Westbury, which makes infrared heat detectors that keep the antennas on communication satellites pointed toward Earth.
And, the developers hope, an inspiring place.
"The role of the science center is primarily to excite young people and get them interested in science," Mr. Rossoff said, "which is not to say it will be an amusement park."
But perhaps it will include a tornado, the swirling liquid kind fashioned from soda bottles fastened mouth to mouth, as in many a grade school science fair project, and a full-service weather station transmitting data for students to collate. Or a clicking Geiger counter, testing minute levels of radiation emitted by household smoke detectors, like the one Frederick Kruger, the volunteer exhibits director and a speech and hearing scientist, set up at Limsat's development laboratory at the R. J. Osgood Administration Center Complex in Kings Park. The prototype center will be open to schoolchildren this fall.
"The business of designing an exhibit for such a museum is very elusive," Mr. Rossoff said. "You don't always know if you have a good one. It may look good to you and kids walk right past it. There is an inexact science associated with this."
What might catch a child's fancy is the loopy science fiction sound emitted by waving hands near the Theremin, a musical instrument Dr. Kruger built from a kit, or the flat spinning spindle showing magnetic levitation. Or touching a plasma ball, causing sparks to dance because of electrical discharges in an atmosphere of mixed gases.
"Right now it's a pragmatic display," explained Dr. Kruger, sticking his Pentium chip key chain under a research microscope attached to a video screen in the biotechnology cubicle and pointing out the tiny details of an integrated circuit.
"What we could get going either fast, easily or thought was critical is here in some stage of development," said Dr. Kruger, giving a visitor a tour of his fledgling two-classroom museum, complete with a larger-than-human sized slide rule. "We are trying to highlight some of the technologies of Long Island in a hands-on fashion. No matter where the kids go here, they can touch it, feel it, make it do something and see the response."
Some day that may also include an exhibit explaining the differences between an X-ray, a CAT scan and an MRI, a technology born on Long Island, and another on fiber optics, so much of which was invented locally, he said. And he is putting together a computer-parts exchange as a resource for students building science fair experiments.
"The only thing I'm not looking to do is get burnt out toasters," Dr. Kruger said as he fiddled with an old oscilloscope.
Across the hall, green, red and blue lights shining on the wall create a simple exhibit about color mixing. A hand battery shows how the human body can act like the acid in a battery, causing a meter to deflect.
Through virtual computer hookups, Mr. Barre added, Limsat will be a hub science center, linking the region's smaller science museums to the central facility.
"We're hoping to make this an islandwide project, not just a Nassau county or a Mitchel Center project, Mr. Barre said. "It's hard to be opposed to Limsat. It's like motherhood and apple pie. It's good for everybody. It's good for economic development. It's good for supplying the future science and engineering talent that we need. It's entertaining. It will draw tourists. There's nothing negative about it."
 
Heartfelt Words
"I have no pictures of my family," said Sarah Lew not long ago, her voice quavering, her hands quivering as she recited a poem about the innocent who have no tombs, just cemeteries in the clouds. "But the pictures are framed in my heart."
Along with a promise. Mrs. Lew, of Woodmere, is a Holocaust survivor. From 1939 to 1945, she was in a series of Polish ghettos and in five concentration camps. And she assured her father, as he pushed her during a roundup of Jews to another, more fortuitous line, allowing her to live and not die, that she would tell her story.
So she has written her memoirs, tentatively titled, "From Bialystock to Brooklyn." Two hundred pages of romance and sorrow, from her childhood in Poland through the horrors of the Holocaust that left her with "a lonely soul" to owning a department store in Brooklyn and raising three sons. But she needs a publisher.
"I have an obligation," she said. "So long as my eyes are open, I feel the pain. It's important the world should know. Most of us are gone already."
Mrs. Lew's entire family perished. Her mother, father and two brothers were killed by the Nazis. She still lives, she said, with visions of Dr. Josef Mengele, the notorious Angel of Death, in front of her eyes.
"You are supposed to go on with your life, get a new family, and new troubles and new aggravations," she said. "That's what life is."
Although Mrs. Lew did that, time has not dimmed her memories.
"The first miracle was to survive," she said. "The next miracle will be to publish."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Dr. Frederick Kruger, exhibits director of Limsat; Steve Barre, its president, and Art Rossoff, its past president. At left, a rendering of the museum's site. (Richard Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT LLC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CHILDREN (70%); VOLUNTEERS (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (50%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



402 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Long Island;
Great River's High-Tech Center Begins to Hum

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

DATELINE: GREAT RIVER

 BODY:
THE sprawling 355,000-square-foot structure on Sunrise Highway here, once owned by Northrop Grumman and now being renovated by new owners, may look like yet another manufacturing building undergoing an upgrading, but it is far from that.
Inside the Long Island Technology Center pulses a sophisticated array of wired and wireless communications systems designed to attract high-tech companies for whom high-speed, high-capacity transmission is essential. 
 The first phase of what will be a $24 million renovation officially opened June 8. Ten leases for a total of 22,000 square feet have been signed and 10 leases for an additional 30,000 square feet are in various stages of negotiation. Only technology- and education-related companies are accepted.
The first phase consists of 37 prebuilt and prewired offices ranging in size from 250 to 17,000 square feet and totaling of 150,000 square feet. Annual rents are $21.50 a square foot, which includes electricity.
Each office is connected by optical fiber and high-speed copper wire to a main communication room. Carriers include Bell Atlantic, Cablevision Lightpath and North American Telecom and additional carriers are expected to come on board, with tenants free to choose the one to use. Switching from one carrier to another can be accomplished seamlessly through an internal fiber-optic cabling system devised by Rudin Management and the Cogswell Realty Group, joint venture partners in developing the Great River building. Both companies are based in Manhattan.
In a joint venture with Keyspan Communications, the telecommunications arm of Keyspan Energy, the developers will construct a link from the building's fiber-optic network to the Keyspan's network. The link will allow high-speed transmission of data -- 10 billion bits of information per second -- to domestic and global networks. A year ago, Keyspan Energy took over the operations of the Long Island Lighting Company.
"The Keyspan piece brings the broad-band global network right to the desktop of the tenant," said John J. Gilbert 3d, Rudin's chief operating officer. "We've created the raw material that these companies need to compete in the global marketplace."
He went on to say that "global connectivity" was essential, adding that "our motto is, 'If you're not communicating electronically with your customers today, you're not going to be in business tomorrow.' "
The Great River building will offer the same technologically advanced infrastructure on Long Island that Rudin developed successfully at its New York Information Technology Center at 55 Broad Street in Manhattan. The same system will be incorporated in the Reuters headquarters building now under construction at 3 Times Square, a joint venture of Rudin and Reuters.
"Along with providing electricity, air-conditioning and plumbing, you also have to allow information to flow as easily as water," said Herb Hauser, president of Barnes Wentworth, a Manhattan-based technology engineering company that is installing the Great River fiber optics. "Information has become the fourth utility."
The Long Island Technology Center promises to position Long Island as a "technology capital" similar in reputation to the Route 128 corridor near Boston and other concentrations of high-tech companies, said Peter Goldsmith, chairman of the Long Island Software and Technology Network -- LISTnet for short -- which has moved into the building.
He called the project "our White House and the essential ingredient to allow that to happen."
"It was very important for Rudin and Cogswell to recognize the potential here and cultivate it," he added.
LISTnet, a nonprofit membership organization that promotes Long Island's high-tech industry, started with about 50 companies a year and a half ago and has since grown to almost 600 members, Mr. Goldsmith said. The organization brought Long Island to the attention of Rudin and Cogswell among others, he noted, adding: "Before that, all they knew about Long Island was what they saw on their way to the Hamptons."
THE high-tech corridor, extending from the State University of New York at Stony Brook to the north to Great River in the south, includes Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton, Computer Associates International in Islandia and Symbol Technologies in Holtsville.
Cogswell Realty purchased the 82-acre property from Northrop Grumman last August for $10 million. Rudin Management became a joint venture partner shortly thereafter. Lehman Brothers is providing the construction financing.
"We are ahead of our expectations and without even a grand opening we had 10 pioneer companies who saw what the building has the ability to do and signed on," said Arthur R. Stern, the chief executive of Cogswell Realty.
The quality of tenants has also far exceeded expectations, Mr. Stern added. "These are enormously talented people that are in the right industry at the right time," he said, "and with the capital markets being the way they are, they have access to capital to develop their ideas."
Among the tenants is Storage Networks of Waltham, Mass., formed by Peter Bell and Bill Miller nine months ago. The company, which is leasing 3,516 square feet at Great River, already has locations throughout the United States and expects to double its 75 employees by the end of the year, Mr. Bell said.
Storage Networks, which provides online data-storage services for clients like major banks, is providing the data-storage infrastructure at the Long Island Technology Center. Its service allows customers to securely store data on its network, to access it instantaneously and to have it delivered offsite all with the ease of a telephone call.
Another tenant, Keytrade, an online brokerage firm, is about to move into 5,579 square feet. Anthony J. Imbo, the chief operating officer, said he expected to attract 50,000 to 100,000 accounts within a year of the company's mid-July launch. Keytrade technology enables customers conducting an on-line stock or mutual funds trade who need help to simultaneously connect to a customer representative in an online chat room instead of having to seek assistance by phone.
Video Net Services Corporation, which has leased 2,289 square feet, was started by Clay Shuder and Hank Shouler in a 244-square-foot office in Mr. Shouler's Northport home. It encodes anything recorded on videotape into a language computers can understand so that the material can be transmitted over the Internet.
Imperial Software, an educational software developer and provider that has leased 5,866 square feet, is bringing 30 of its 125 employees to the building and expects to triple that number in three years, said Thomas Murphy, the company's president.
Another company, Comview Corporation of Huntington, which provides integrated phone systems, is taking 1,500 square feet.
The building's 205,000-square-foot second phase will include a "digital sandbox," a copyrighted name developed by Rudin that refers to a flexible space offering everything from video conferencing to a place to meet. Mr. Gilbert of Rudin called the sandbox -- a name he coined -- "the water cooler of cyberspace where all the companies can get together, where they can collaborate, train and do events." It is, he added, "a sandbox for adults to come and play."
AT Great River the sandbox will be "a multistoried very flexible space, almost like a theater in the round," said Scott E. Spector, principal in charge of the Great River project at the Spector Group, architects in North Hills. About 10 smaller conferencing spaces will surround the main area, he said.
Tenants may now gather in a landscaped courtyard and the 300-seat Terabyte Cafe will open shortly. A day-care center, expected to open by Labor Day, will allow parents to monitor their children via a video link.
The 82-acre site permits the construction of 787,000 square feet of additional space, and negotiations are now under way with tenants who want an entire building, said Mr. Stern of Cogswell Realty.
Inclusion into Islip's Economic Development Zone, which Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation announced at the June 8 ceremony, will provide tax credits, sales tax exemptions, wage tax credits and energy discounts, among other incentives.
That just adds the icing, tenants say, because they have come for the sophisticated communications system that would require a huge capital outlay to install individually, the backups to safeguard systems from going down, the secure premises and an intangible -- the ability to share ideas.
"The interaction with other companies is going to be a wonderful way to bounce ideas off other people," said Mr. Shuder of Video Net Services. "We may have a niche that people take advantage of, and hopefully they'll have things that offer a reciprocal relationship."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, William C. Rudin, Arthur R. Stern, John J. Gilbert 3d and Peter Marsh at the Long Island Technology Center. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)
 
Map of Suffolk county highlighting the Long Island Technology Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (86%); NG (LSE) (86%); NOC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (86%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (86%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (86%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (86%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND TECHNOLOGY CENTER (GREAT RIVER, NY); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP NATIONAL GRID PLC (86%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (58%); COGSWELL REALTY GROUP (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND TECHNOLOGY CENTER (GREAT RIVER, NY); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP COGSWELL REALTY GROUP (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; RENTING AND LEASING; CELLULAR TELEPHONES REAL ESTATE (90%); RIVERS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); DATA TRANSMISSION (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



403 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /Westchester;
When Developers, and City Officials, Think Big

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

 BODY:
NOW that New Roc City, the entertainment/shopping complex, is nearing completion in downtown New Rochelle, Louis Cappelli, its developer, is considering another project there.
"I'm so pleased by the progress of the construction," said Mr. Cappelli, a managing general partner of New Roc Associates, L.P., which is developing the project. "It's up, it's done. We've met our scheduled opening date for the middle of August. I'm now looking to do something else for the next thing." 
 Toward that end, Mr. Cappelli has asked the city to make available to him two parcels within the urban renewal area and adjacent to New Roc City -- totaling about six acres -- so he can build 250,000 square feet of office space, 300 units of housing and 75,000 square feet of low-rise retail space.
"I definitely think the center is going to generate excitement and interest," Mr. Cappelli said, "and I want to get as much land around it as possible."
Meanwhile, in White Plains, Tishman Speyer Properties, a Manhattan-based developer, just received city approval to acquire urban renewal parcels surrounding the former Macy's building on Mamaroneck Avenue for a development similar to NewRoc City.
The additional property , which runs along Mamaroneck Avenue and Main Street, is considered essential for the viability of Tishman Speyer's $175-million proposal to transform the Macy's site into a 425,000-square-foot entertainment/shopping complex.
The city must first take over the property by eminent domain and then sell it to Tishman Speyer. "We've already agreed to sell it to them," said Michael Graessle, the White Plains planning commissioner. "The first step is getting the property appraised."
In New Rochelle, however, Mr. Cappelli still awaits approval of his purchase of the adjacent parcels. "We have to determine if the territory is suitable for urban renewal first," said Joseph Madonna, the city's Commissioner for Development. "Then the city has to decide whether it wants to buy it and sell it to Cappelli. We still need to find out more specifics about what he plans to do with it."
Mr. Cappelli called projects like his NewRoc City the "hot new thing."
"Since I started New Roc City, I've been contacted by half a dozen other cities and towns, both in New York and in other states," he said. "I'll probably be doing three more of these types of developments in other locations, but not in Westchester."
Both the White Plains and New Rochelle projects are prototypes for this type of development in the county. They both promise to enliven their downtown locations, and have a spillover effect on surrounding areas.
The 450,000-square-foot New Roc City will be anchored by a 19-screen movie complex, including the county's first IMAX theater. There will also be twin ice-skating rinks, two restaurants, a supermarket and a fitness club.
Its spillover effect has already taken place, with the current construction of a 123,000-square-foot office building on a nearby parcel, and a 123-room Marriott Residence Inn, which is being built over the center's parking garage. Both are scheduled to open in September.
In addition, Avalon Bay Communities, a real estate investment trust based in Alexandria, Va., will soon break ground on a 1,000-unit rental development called Avalon on the Sound. And the city plans to build an intermodal transportation center, with new bus and train terminals, near its Metro-North and Amtrak train stations.
All this has also led to cosmetic improvements. The city is in the process of a sidewalk improvement program, with new sidewalks, streetlights, and plantings.
"It all started with Home Depot and Costco, when they moved in in 1996," said Commissioner Madonna. "Then after NewRoc got started, we got a lot of calls and momentum picked up. Now we have enough development plans to take us through the next six to seven years."
WHITE PLAINS is hoping for a similar lift from Tishman Speyer's project, said Mr. Graessle, but it's a little too early for concrete results. "The project's changed in scope and size since it was originally proposed earlier this year," he added.
The current proposal is for a 21-screen, 5,000-seat Loews movie theater as anchor and 10 to 12 retailers, as many as four of which would probably be restaurants. "From the tentative tenant list I've seen," Mr. Graessle, "they're all solid recognizable names, the kind you're likely to find near theaters today.
"Every movie theater seems to need a record store, a bank, an electronics store and coffee shops, the traditional support," Mr. Grassele said, adding that there had been a lot of interest, especially from restaurants, in the street locations surrounding the center. "They've expressed interest, but they also want to wait and see if the Tishman project is really going to come off," he said. "Once they're closer to construction, I'm sure we'll see space fill up."
According to city estimates, the Tishman project is expected to generate $96 million in retail sales and $1.6 million in sales tax-revenue, and attract 2 million visitors a year.
At one time, a residential component was also proposed, but Tishman Speyer has since withdrawn it. "At one time, the developer was proposing building 451 units of housing on Martine Avenue, but they've withdrawn it," Mr. Graessle added "It's still possible they'll do the housing, but it's more likely it will be half the number of units."
Tishman also dropped plans for a second floor of retail. "They were having difficulty leasing the second floor, so they dropped it," Mr. Graessle said. "If it had been an interior mall, and the retail faced inside, I think the space would have leased up.
"But the city has always insisted that the retail face the street," Mr. Graessle continued. "Our purpose with this project has always been to enliven Mamroneck Avenue. If the project had to be reduced in size and delayed in order to accomplish that, then that's the price we pay. We'll take it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The New Roc City complex in downtown New Rochelle, above, due to open in August. Left, workmen put final touches on exterior. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ROC ASSOCIATES; TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES LP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ROC ASSOCIATES; TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ROCHELLE (NY); NEW YORK STATE; WHITE PLAINS (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; OFFICE BUILDINGS; HOUSING URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (77%); EMINENT DOMAIN (73%); APPROVALS (71%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (68%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER; CAPPELLI, LOUIS R LOUIS J CAPPELLI (94%); DAVID DAVIS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



404 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 13; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Helping Parents as Children Leave for College

BYLINE: By DONNA CORNACHIO

DATELINE: HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON

 BODY:
WHEN Lisa Charles considers the departure of her 18-year-old daughter, Tyler Morris, for college this fall, sometimes all she can do is cry.
"I look through her yearbook and get all choked up," Ms. Charles, who lives here, said. "I worry who's going to watch out for her. Will she be O.K. on her own?" 
 Ms. Morris, who is going to the University of the Arts in Philadelphia, appears more excited than anxious about leaving home, though she admits to feeling twinges of homesickness. "I definitely feel ready to move on and be responsible for my life," Ms. Morris said. "But I will certainly miss my parents and my little brother a lot."
It is a conflict that is universally shared as thousands of Westchester parents and their young-adult children celebrate high school graduation and prepare for the three-month limbo known as the senior summer. It is a state of mind that Carol Barkin, an author who lives here, knows all too well. Her recently published guide for parents in the midst of senior summer angst, "When Your Kid Goes to College: A Parents' Survival Guide" (Avon), is the result of the experience she and her husband had in sending their only child to college five years ago. "It was such a confused time for all of us," Ms. Barkin said. "I wanted so much to be able to let my kid go while still staying connected with him. I could tell David felt that same push and pull."
During that summer and well into David Barkin's freshman year at Tufts University in Medford, Mass., Ms. Barkin met informally with other parents whose children were also leaving the nest. The talk was only about their children, and despite differences of race, sex and economics, some themes were universal. "I worried about my daughter feeling isolated at school," recalled Linda Bulmer of Yonkers, who was among the parents Ms. Barkin interviewed for her book. "I worried whether the people she would be associating with would respect the morals and values I'd instilled in her."
Although children have been sent off to college for generations without any parents' survival guide, Ms. Barkin talked about why this era is different. "There seem to be fewer rules and controls than when we were at college," said Ms. Barkin, who graduated from Harvard University in 1965. "When I was at school, I had to conform to curfews and parietals; neither of which exist today except at select religious colleges. Parents today worry there's no safety net to catch their kids if they fall."
Ms. Barkin said that it may be more a parental perception than a reality of a hands-off administration; all colleges do have campus support groups for students to turn to. But there are fewer rules on today's college campuses than when the parents were the students. Aside from concern about issues of safety and alcohol and drug abuse on campuses, parents worry about the minute and the mundane: Is he going to be able to wake up on his own for class? Will she be able to live with a difficult roommate?
In her book, Ms. Barkin provides practical information for parents to talk to their children about everything from a crash course in laundry ("discuss the dangers of mixing new dark or bright clothing with light colors") to sex, drugs and drinking. A mother whom Ms. Barkin interviewed for the book told her, "You talk to your kid about unprotected sex, date rape, drugs and alcohol, and then you keep your fingers crossed." In her book, Ms. Barkin also discusses the importance of parents raising such sensitive issues ("even if it's for the zillionth time") with college-bound children. "Your child needs to know where you stand on these questions," she said. "He also needs to know that you trust him and have confidence in his ability to make decisions about his life."
Most children, Ms. Barkin added, end up reflecting their parents' values. Her son, David, 22, who graduated from Tufts last May, contributed a final chapter to his mother's book, entitled "Advice From a College Senior." In the chapter, he offered this advice: "If you have trusted your child until now, don't worry too much. Most kids handle the pressures of drinking and drugs without too much trouble."
Many parents, the Barkins included, try to cram as much as they can into their family's life the summer before their children go to college only to find out that their children want nothing more than to be with their friends. "I'd thought we'd take one last family vacation together, but Tyler really didn't want to come along," Ms. Charles said. "At the same time, I also notice she's spending more time at home with us than before."
And who says you can't go home again? David Barkin, now an assistant teacher at the Windward School in White Plains, is sleeping back in his old room, at least until he can afford to move out on his own. As a college graduate, he said he now finds he has a different relationship with his parents. "I get along with my parents really well," he said. "They now seem to think of me as more responsible and independent, and I feel as though I can speak to them as an adult."
For her part, and only half joking, Ms. Barkin said she was considering David's return as the subject for her next book: "When Your Kid Comes Back Home After College." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILDREN (90%); PARENTING (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); WRITERS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); 

PERSON: CAROL BARKIN (94%); DAVID BARKIN (69%); TYLER MORRIS (69%); LISA CHARLES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



405 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 5; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: New Rochelle Project Nears Completion

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE

 BODY:
ONLY six weeks to go. "That's when the theaters will be open for business," said New Rochelle's Mayor, Timothy C. Idoni, referring to a cinema that will have an Imax theater, the first in the county, and 18 other regular screens. The theater is one of the anchors of New Roc City, a $190 million project that will include family entertainment and retail and mixed use development.
"New Roc City is the biggest thing ever to come into New Rochelle," the Mayor said. For one thing, he said, the project, the cornerstone of a plan to revitalize downtown New Rochelle, is expected to create more than 600 permanent, full-time jobs. The 1.2-million-square-foot complex, built on the former Macy's and New Rochelle Mall sites, has already contributed to a rise in real estate values, Mr. Idoni said. 
 For example, "Two years ago, the asking price was $600,000 for an adjacent office building on the corner of Main Street and Le Count place," he said. "Today, the asking price is $2 million."
The complex, taking shape as an army of sheet metal and steel workers, carpenters and electricians go about their tasks, includes a roof-top amusement park ride that rises 235 feet into the air, a National Hockey League regulation-size rink, a country-like skating lake and shops with sports themes, along with a 120-room Marriott Residence Inn and a 110,000-square-foot office building.
"We didn't want an enclosed mall with a box-like row of stores," said Louis R. Cappelli, a partner with Robert M. Greene and Kenneth Narva in New Roc Associates, the White Plains-based developer of the project.
New Roc is being built with tree-lined promenades and benches to encourage pedestrian traffic. A facade of limestone and brick buildings, depicting New York City in the 1920's, creates a neighborhood theme, which Mr. Cappelli said is "very appropriate for an entertainment center."
Mr. Cappelli's own company, Cappelli Enterprises in Valhalla, is the general contractor for the project, which he describes "as a cross between the Mall of America in Minnesota and Universal Studios in Orlando."
The estimate is that it will attract about 5.5 million people a year from a radius of 50 to 60 miles and will generate about $1.5 million to $2 million in sales tax revenue from the retail stores alone.
Financing for the $190 million project was arranged through public and private sources, including a low-interest loan from the Empire State Development Corporation. The city of New Rochelle contributed toward the demolition and reconstruction of the parking garage, which will have room for 2,200 cars.
Approximately 740,000 square feet of the 800,000-square-foot rental space in New Roc has been leased, Mr. Cappelli said. The tenants already signed up include a recreation center called Sports Plus, a division of Family Golf Centers; it will occupy 150,000 square feet, with video games, batting cages, Laser-Tron, a climbing wall, motion-simulator rides and virtual reality games. Sports Plus will also manage the hockey rink, which will be rented out to school groups and other organizations, and the skating lake, where lessons and skating will be available by the hour.
"They also have the Huguenot Tower like Disney World's Tower of Terror," Mr. Cappelli said. "That will certainly draw attention to New Rochelle. It's fashioned after the Eiffel Tower and will be visible for miles." The Tower propels 12 riders, fastened in with safety harnesses, more than 200 feet straight up in the air with the force of a space launch. The ride, which will be priced at $3 to $4, will last 40 seconds.
The complex, which is expected to be in full operation by September, will also include a Bally fitness center, three family-style restaurants, a Super Stop & Shop supermarket and possibly a conference center.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Atrium incorporated into New Roc City complex in New Rochelle. Louis R. Cappelli, left, with Kenneth Narva, developers, at the New Roc City project site in New Rochelle. It will include family entertainment. (Photograhs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%); RESIDENCE INN (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDMONTON OILERS (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RETAILERS (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); SALES TAX (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); WINTER SPORTS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (65%); 

PERSON: LOUIS R CAPPELLI (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



406 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 17; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Happily Ever After: When Form Married Function

BYLINE: By BESS LIEBENSON

 BODY:
THE Bush Storehouse in Greenwich is part of a compound of six buildings that climb a hill (at this time of the year speckled with flowers and a vine-covered grape arbor) to an enviable view over the Miamus River.
The setting inspired the American Impressionists to colonize and paint at the Bush-Holley House, now the site of the Historical Society of the Town of Greenwich. And two years ago it prompted the renovation and transformation of the circa-1805 Justus L. Bush storehouse into a visitors' center including galleries now showcasing its fifth exhibition, "Art for Everyday Living: The American Arts and Crafts Movement 1890-1920," which can be seen through Sept. 12. 
 The movement, following on the heels of the Industrial Revolution, filled a vacuum and answered a yearning. The antithesis of industrial ideals (which placed economy and profit above hand artisanry), the arts and crafts movement at its peak (between 1890 and 1920) influenced American decorative arts and architecture, and was embraced by popularizers including Louis Comfort Tiffany, Gustav Stickley, the Stickley Brothers, Rookwood Pottery, the Roy Crofters and Frank Lloyd Wright.
The subject appealed to the Historical Society of the Town of Greenwich because "it covered the same period, the late 19th to 20th century, that the art colony was here and at its peak," said Karen Blanchfield, the Historical Society's curator.
"In the early 1900's," Ms. Blanchfield said, "the artists and writers at Bush-Holley House were discussing modern art and modern life while the arts and crafts movement was addressing a lot of the same issues. Advocates strongly believed that through handicraft, either by making it or living with it, people would attain and enjoy a better life."
The exhibition captures an aura of the style-reform movement that coveted and turned everyday objects into artistic statements. Arranged primarily by medium, it highlights those influenced by the movement. Most dominant is a wall of furniture. Stark, simple and with a distinctive design, it seems to say it well and to sum up the show.
"There was an overt hand-craftedness," Ms. Blanchfield said, capturing a single part of the design's essence. "You can see the construction techniques." There's Charles P. Limbart's oak chair with vertical slats and ebony inlay, Gustav Stickley's strikingly simple geometric bookcase with hand-hammered brass pulls, and the younger Stickley brothers' graceful, almost flowering pedestal. "Gustav Stickley was considered the father of the movement," Ms. Blanchfield said. "But his younger brothers, who were originally thought of as copycats, took it a step beyond evolving their own product line, sometimes with more grace."
There are those who will recognize the signature style of Frank Lloyd Wright, who studied arts and crafts architecture at the time, and for whose houses the younger Stickley brothers manufactured furniture.
One showcase features English pewter and silver biscuit tins, one made by the English designer Archibald Knox, and an American knock-off. The American version in pewter with a brass wash has irregular sides, free-form decoration and hammer marks. "Silver was a popular medium in England, but was not popular in America where it was considered elitist," Ms. Blanchfield said.
The movement also promoted applied arts, including needlework, as a practical opportunity for women to use artistic skills. "Women were not encouraged to become professional artists, painters or sculptors, or sell their art," Ms. Blanchfield said. "But if they wanted to decorate art pottery or embroider textiles, that was acceptable and fashionable." Female students came to the Bush-Holley House at the time of the Impressionist art colony, but did not become famous artists like their male colleagues.
A pillow is displayed, elaborately embroidered with a popular motif of the time, an orange poppy. There is also a folding screen, carved and painted by Elmer MacRae.
The renowned art potter Leon Volkmar's ovid-shaped vases are on display as well as jewelry carved from jade with ginkgo leaves, its organic design seeming to sprout from the material.
There are also hand-printed books and greeting cards, illustrations of bungalow houses and furnishings, and humble-looking art pottery. "There was nothing flashy about arts and crafts," Ms. Blanchfield said. "The goal was not to impress esthetically, but quietly influence."
 
The galleries of the visitors' center at the Historical Society of the Town of Greenwich (39 Strickland Road, Greenwich; 203-869-6899 extension 10) is open Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, noon to 4 P.M., Saturday, 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. and Sunday, 1 to 4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above: Earthenware vases (1918) and bowl (1919) made by Leon Volkmar, New Bedford, N.Y. Right: Circa-1905 pedestal from the L. and J.G. Stickley Company, Fayetteville, N.Y. Above: Circa-1910 biscuit tin of pewter with brash wash. Below: Circa-1915 oak arm chair made by the Charles P. Limbart Company and a circa-1890 pillow cover with silk and cotton embroidery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: BUSH-HOLLEY HOUSE (73%); HISTORICAL SOCIETY (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH-HOLLEY HOUSE (73%); HISTORICAL SOCIETY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); VISUAL ARTS (75%); 

PERSON: KAREN BLANCHFIELD (91%); GUSTAV STICKLEY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



407 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3257 words

HEADLINE: The Loft Law's Pursuit of Lofty Goals

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
THE old loft space -- not even all that expansive at 1,800 square feet -- is now worth a lot more than it was back in '78; and, amid all his video equipment, Mike is wondering whether there isn't a sizable chunk of profit to be made by selling now.
He doesn't live there any more; it's just his studio now -- really! Not like in the old days when the landlord looked the other way while the couch was carried in and the freight elevator was an adventure; when Asian women still bent over their sewing machines next door and the streets downtown were plastered with those "SoHo's Being Co-opted" stickers. And, certainly, way before all those chic boutiques dotted the block. 
 Mike is a fictitious character, and his loft -- with its internal Doric columns, sprinkler pipes, ersatz walls and raw-lumber loft bed -- is, in reality, a walk-through exhibit currently showing at the New Museum of Contemporary Art on Broadway, just south of Houston Street.
But while the exhibit is a product of the imaginings of two installation artists, Joshua White and Michael Smith (down to the created leak stain on the kitchen ceiling), it is certainly art imitating life. And it is symbolic of the ongoing and, for some, wrenching evolution of the loft market.
It is an evolution that has seen some artists, like Kathy Arlt, who lives in a former caviar warehouse on Greenwich Street in TriBeCa, metamorphose from tenants to owners by way of arduous financial and legal combat. And one in which many landlords, like Diana Agostini of Greene Street in SoHo -- in the face of old, demanding industrial buildings and reluctant lending institutions -- are joined in constant struggles to make the numbers add up.
It was 17 years ago that the Loft Law -- more precisely Article 7c of the New York State Multiple Dwelling Law -- first legalized what had been the clandestine tenancy of artists already occupying commercial spaces downtown, while also mandating that landlords bring their buildings into housing-code compliance.
And with a five-year renewal of the Loft Law, which is to expire at the end of the month, up for a vote in Albany (the Assembly has already passed its version), partisans in the continuing contentiousness between landlords and tenants are assessing the effectiveness of legislation that, though directly affecting only a sliver of the market, served as a wedge for the creation of a whole new source of housing in a city long plagued by limited supply.
The assessment is relevant, however, not just for the 835 buildings registered under the Loft Law -- 460 of which have, so far, achieved code compliance or are in the process of doing so -- but for an estimated 2,600 other loft buildings scattered about the city.
For in recent years, artists, artisans and others priced out of the increasingly gentrified co-op and condominium loft market downtown have been illegally slipping into spaces in long-fallow manufacturing areas in Greenpoint and Williamsburg, Brooklyn, the South Bronx and Long Island City, Queens. And some tenant advocates, generally satisfied with a law that has assured them legitimate occupancy and protection under rent stabilization, argue that it should be extended to those neighborhoods.
"The law has worked insofar as protecting the tenancy of these tenants," said William Hall, co-chairman of Lower Manhattan Loft Tenants, a 700-member group. But there remains, Mr. Hall contends, a core of landlords resistant to bringing buildings into compliance, "and enforcement continues to be a problem."
The New York City Loft Board, established in accordance with the Loft Law, is charged with enforcing the statute's provisions and deadlines, with writing the rules that govern the relationship between landlords and tenants and with resolving disputes.
CHUCK DeLANEY is the tenant representative on the nine-member Loft Board. "Everyone acknowledges that doing code-compliance work in loft buildings with the tenants in place is a complicated and delicate process," he said.
Still, Mr. DeLaney said: "There are now several thousand legal, code-compliant housing units in the city thanks to the Loft Law, and many more in the pipeline. To me, that's a success."
"The problem," he said, "is the real stubborn owner who doesn't care about coming up to code, doesn't register and just ignores the fines."
In recent years, "illegal conversion has occurred in Brooklyn, and a bit in Queens," Mr. DeLaney said. "The city should enforce against new illegal conversion because, if it turns its back, we're going to see the same problems."
In the glass-half-full, glass-half-empty debate, however, landlord representatives describe the law as ineffective, pointing out that, after 17 years, 375 of the 835 registered buildings remain out of compliance. The law is unfair, they argue, because it fines them for failing to comply, but offers them little help in finding financing to undertake the extensive renovations it requires. It is a Catch-22, they say, that a building owner who cannot obtain a loan for renovations because the banks are wary of a low rent base is then punished by a law that allows tenants to stop paying rents altogether because the renovations haven't been made.
"The Loft Law has sentenced owners to perpetual illegality and made them owners of unsafe buildings," said Thomas Berger, president of the Association of Commercial Property Owners, a 400-member loft-landlord group. "They cannot get financing because the banks see no sufficient rental to cover the mortgage."
The landlord representative on the Loft Board, John Lansden, said the law "should have taken into account that, for the most part, these are small buildings where there is not a lot of income, even after legalization."
"These are not professional landlords," Mr. Lansden said. "Many have businesses in the building and bought the property to insure the survivability of the business. And as a matter of financing the legalization, they're just not equipped to do it. That's the nuts and bolts of it. What we have is a highly technical, confusing series of regulations that are more penalty than incentive."
But Mr. Hall of the tenants group countered that the Loft Board has a "very liberal" extension procedure. "Any owner who can demonstrate having made a good-faith effort to comply receives an extension," he said.
Tenant leaders assert that the owners would simply rather see their tenants leave, so they can go to market-rate rents or the buildings can be converted to co-ops or condominiums -- even though, in a blurring of the demarcation lines, some original loft tenants have themselves banded together to partake of the conversion possibilities. "I would say that to whatever extent the neighborhood has not become Disneyfied," Mr. Hall said, "it's because we are still there."
At stake is the survivability not only of the loft pioneers, but of succeeding generations of artists who, in the estimation of Dr. Elliot Sclar of the Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, are vital to the city's continuing economic growth.
"It's not just paint on canvas," said Dr. Sclar, who with a team of students wrote "SoHo: A Community at a Crossroads," a 1996 study. "It's important to remember that creative people develop the software, the images, the movies, the lights -- the culture -- that attracts other industries and individuals to locate here."
"This whole new media industry growing up around Times Square now," Dr. Sclar said, "is built on the backs of this world-class arts community centered in Lower Manhattan."
And, as "Mike" -- the archetypal loft resident of Messrs. White and Smith's exhibit at the New Museum -- seems to be asking: Can the artist colony that begat the downtown residential boom survive its own success, especially when it is so difficult for some of those same artists to ignore the lucrative possibilities that their old lofts now offer?
"Years ago, he considered himself a loft pioneer," said Mr. Smith, who looks remarkably like Mike in the videos stationed around the exhibit that serve as tour guide, and prospective seller.
"Back then he was trying to save SoHo for artists," Mr. Smith said of his alter ego. "He thought this neighborhood had integrity beyond market value." But Mike also "had to eat," Mr. Smith said, and went into commercial art; most recently producing a "point-of-purchase video" for "The Downtown Look" -- a lip definer.
"Now 20 years have passed and Mike wants to test the market," Mr. Smith said. "He's ambivalent about selling because the loft represents a certain identity to him. But the market is so hot right now that he wants to see what he can get for it."
Quite a bit, apparently, according a recent survey of the price trajectory of 289 co-op or condominium lofts downtown. The report -- prepared by the Mitchell Maxwell & Jackson appraisal company for the Corcoran Group residential brokerage -- found that in TriBeCa between 1988 and 1998, the average price for 1,700- to 2,500-square-foot lofts increased from $495,000 to $800,000, or 62 percent; and from $855,000 to $1,440,000, or 68 percent, for lofts of 3,500 square feet or more.
In SoHo, the report said, the average price for lofts of 1,700 to 2,500 square feet rose from $495,000 in 1988 to $820,000 in 1998, or 66 percent, while lofts of 3,500 or more square feet jumped 164 percent, from $700,000 to $1,850,000.
Kathy Arlt, a longtime loft-dweller, and 23 neighbors bought their six-story, 34-unit building -- an old caviar company's warehouse at Greenwich and Watts Streets in TriBeCa -- in 1993, after a long and bitter dispute with the landlord. Told of the museum exhibit and its protagonist's inner conflict about selling, she said, "Sounds like me."
Ms. Arlt, a writer who ran a typesetting business out of her 1,300-square-foot loft, moved in in 1978, when "there was nothing down here: no food store, no video store, no drug store, certainly no doggy day-care like we now have."
Her initial rent was $350. "But we all paid for everything involved in operating the building," she said. "If one of the elevators broke, we would all pay a percentage; likewise taxes, fuel bills."
The landlord purchased the building in 1975 for $350,000. In 1981, a year before the Loft Law was enacted, the leases expired and the owner decided to raise Ms. Arlt's rent to $1,000 a month, twice that for the larger units. "But we would still pay all those expenses," she said, "so we went to court."
THE landlord's position was that, since the leases had expired, he could go to market-rate rents before being channeled into rent stabilization under the law. "We prevailed," Ms. Arlt said, "because we were still appealing before the law went into effect." Rents were frozen. For years, claiming economic hardship, the landlord did little to comply with the housing codes. And in 1990, the tenants went on rent strike.
The difficulties in converting factory space to residential use are hardly insubstantial. Any conversion must comply with laws on access for people with disabilities -- most dearly, the elevators. Many old factories do not have adequate rear yards to meet fire, safety and air requirements, so it may be necessary to remove parts of the building. Fire escapes must be installed; leftover industrial contamination eliminated. Commonly, the buildings require plumbing, electrical work, ventilation for kitchens and bathrooms, sprinklers and smoke detectors.
While the burden usually falls on the owner, in many cases the original tenants paid for the renovations -- as well as improvements like sanded floors, interior walls, appliances -- and then entered legal combat over who was responsible for those modifications and who would be compensated when the original tenant moved.
In Ms. Arlt's building, the burden was eventually assumed by the tenants.
By 1993, Ms. Arlt said, the landlord's widow "decided she had had enough, she wanted to sell." For $990,000, 24 tenants became owners, "and took out a loan for over $3 million," Ms. Arlt said, to cover the renovation costs.
These days, TriBeca "is where everybody wants to live," she said. "It hasn't become SoHo yet, but it's getting there. And I'm thinking of moving before the neighborhood gets to that point. In two years, I think, it might be time to move."
Ms. Arlt paid $22,000 for her unit, not including her share of the renovation costs, and believes she could now get "somewhere in the vicinity of $400,000."
Diana Agostini didn't really know what she was getting into when she became a landlord. "That's for sure," she said.
Her father, Peter Agostini, a sculptor, had purchased the six-story, century-old clothing factory on Greene Street in SoHo, along with a partner, for about $250,000 back in 1972. Each used one floor, and they leased the other units -- two commercial spaces on the ground floor and seven residential lofts.
Ms. Agostini's father died in 1993 and, because his partner failed to pay real estate taxes for several years, the entire burden of the building came down on her.
"The process of coming up to code had started even when my dad was alive," Ms. Agostini said -- but was never completed.
"We had an architect," she said. "I have my blueprints, my permits. Everything's been approved by the Loft Board. But I haven't been able to secure a loan big enough to pay off the $300,000 on the back taxes, plus the $200,000 to come up to code."
Most of Ms. Agostini's tenants were struggling artists when they moved in. Now, she said, they seem to be doing quite well -- one makes shoes for Broadway shows, one owns a recording studio and a restaurant, another owns another building in SoHo.
Three times the tenants went on rent strike between 1990 and '95 -- over issues like lack of heat, the front door not locking and, more broadly, whether they were required to pay rent while the building was in tax arrears. "I'm out $80,000 that I will probably never collect," Ms. Agostini said. Currently, there is relative peace in the building -- only one tenant is withholding rent.
The tenant on the top floor pays $1,004 for about 3,000 square feet. Those on lower floors each pay about $770 for 1,700 square feet. And there is an art gallery and a jewelry designer in the ground-floor commercial spaces. "Thank God I have them because their rents are like $3,300 each and they are good tenants," Ms. Agostini said.
Total rental income is $12,000 a month and operating expenses come to $10,000. "That does give me an extra $2,000," Ms. Agostini said, "but I've been paying legal fees and architect bills for the renovation plans. And right now I have a cornice that I have to fix. That's $5,000 I have to borrow."
"So that extra $2,000 goes pretty quickly," she said.
Ms. Agostini would gladly complete the compliance process. "I'm not resisting coming up to code, I just don't have the money," she said.
"Part of me is emotionally attached to it," she said. "It's a dream of my dad's that I would like to fulfill. And when you've given so much blood and sweat, you just don't want to walk away."
Not every loft building is a cauldron of contention.
GERALD MARKS, creator of high-tech installations for museums like the New York Hall of Science in Queens, has lived in his 1,600-square-foot loft in Chelsea for 30 years. When he sanded his floors in the 1895 building on 28th Street, "sewing-machine needles came out of the cracks," he said.
The Loft Law, he said, "has been a godsend, an imperfect godsend, that has given me a legal standing and made for nice truce conditions with the landlord."
The building's current owners -- the Chinese importers on the ground floor -- "are very close to complying," Mr. Marks said. And, frankly, he is surprised it hasn't happened sooner.
Mr. Marks, for one, is aware of contradictions at work in a residential loft market where finger-pointing is often based on stereotypes -- who is the victim, who is the money-grubber and on whom does the building hang like an albatross -- that are about as valid as a cliche: overused.
Mr. Marks thinks that those landlords rigidly holding out against compliance -- "Hoping, somehow, it will go away," he said -- have done so "not in their best interests." Even if a building were to go to market-rate rent or conversion, "we would still have our rights," he said.
Declining to state his rent, Mr. Marks pointed out that his landlord would likely now be getting $2,000 a month from him had the building achieved code compliance and, therefore, been granted a residential certificate of occupancy. "In a way, it works to my benefit that he doesn't fully comply," Mr. Marks said.
"If they had fully legalized under the Loft Law," he said, "eliminated the violations and got the C of O, then we would be channeled into rent stabilization and I would have been paying increases compounded on increases for the last decade."
"But the fact is I'd rather pay more," he said, "and know that everything is A-1 legitimate. It can really work beautifully for both sides."
 
Loft Law: In the Beginning
 The Loft Law was enacted in 1982 in response, particularly, to the phenomenon of artists moving into warehouses and factories in lower Manhattan with the knowledge of the owner but in violation of the certificates of occupancy.
When the housing market heated up, some landlords tried to evict their tenants, said Andrew Scherer, author of "Residential Landlord-Tenant Law in New York" (West Group, 1998). "The tenants organized," Mr. Scherer said, "and applied political pressure for a law to assure their tenancy and bring the buildings into compliance with housing codes."
 Within nine months of the law's effective date, owners were required to file an alteration application; and, three months after that, to have the plan approved by the Loft Board and the building designated an Interim Multiple Dwelling. Eighteen months after approval, they had to meet the safety and fire requirements of the state's Multiple Dwelling Law.
They then had 36 months -- either from the effective date of the law or from the designation as an Interim Multiple Dwelling -- to obtain a residential certificate of occupancy. The board could, if a landlord showed cause, grant up to two 12-month extensions.
In 1992 and again in 1996, the Legislature extended the law but added "a kind of amnesty for owners who hadn't come into compliance," Mr. Scherer said. "Essentially, they could start from that point on."
The penalty for failure to comply, in both the initial and reset schedules, was that the tenants or the board could file for a finding that the owner had missed deadlines, with the owner subject to a fine of up to $1,000 for each deadline missed. In addition, the tenants could withhold rent.
The law stipulates that, at the time of filing the alteration application, an owner is eligible for a 6 percent rent increase; then, upon obtaining the alteration permit, an additional 8 percent increase. Upon achieving compliance with safety and fire standards, the owner could get 6 percent more.
After meeting all compliance obligations, the owner may apply to the board for a rent adjustment based on the cost of compliance -- dividing the total cost among the units over a 10-year period. At the same time, the owner can factor in the currently allowable Rent Guidelines Board increase -- establishing the initial stabilized rent, subject to further increases set by the Rent Guidelines Board.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kathy Arlt, (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) in her loft on Greenwich Street in TriBeCa the loft before she redecorated it. (Kathy Arlt)
Ms. Arlt moved in in 1978; her initial rent was $350 a month. In 1993, she and 23 neighbors bought their six-story building. Diana Agostini, owner of 47-49 Greene Street in SoHo. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 1); New Museum installation by Michael Smith and Joshua White depicts loft of fictional artist tempted by high real estate prices to move. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 4734 (JASDAQ) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (70%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BEING CO LTD (70%); LOFT BOARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOFT BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; GREENPOINT (NYC); WILLIAMSBURG (NYC); SOUTH BRONX (NYC); LONG ISLAND CITY (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RENTING AND LEASING; LOFTS; COOPERATIVES; CONDOMINIUMS; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); LEGISLATION (85%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (67%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (61%); 

PERSON: ;HEVESI, DENNIS CHUCK DELANEY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



408 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: DOWN THE SHORE;
Ocean City Holds Back The Tide

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: OCEAN CITY

 BODY:
The old Coast Guard station here, so rich in historic credentials that it made Preservation New Jersey's list of the state's 10 most endangered sites, is almost surely saved. Its cause was so popular that the City Council agreed to buy it from the developer who had planned to put three duplexes in its place at the corner of Fourth Street and Atlantic Avenue.
But preservationists are worried about the hundreds of more modest but historic houses, set on the resort town's oldest streets, that do not have such protections. Increasingly, as the galloping economy raises the demand for summer rentals, the streetscapes of gracious porches and steps are being interrupted by duplexes put up by developers who are buying old houses and tearing them down. 
 "There's this building," said Jack Snyder, an architect and the chairman of the town's Historic Preservation Commission, nodding toward the Coast Guard station from the cafe across the street, "and then there's the overall degradation of what people imagine Ocean City to be."
The "teardowns" moved a group of residents to organize Citizens for Historic Preservation a year and a half ago, said David Swift, the group's president. "Ocean City is tearing down more houses than any other city in New Jersey," he said. "Fifty-nine percent are single-family homes, and many are historic and Victorian, and being replaced by duplex condos. They're forcing out single families and the assessment rates are sky high, so buildings are rendered economically insignificant."
That nearly happened to the Coast Guard station, built in 1885 and operated as one of many "lifesaving stations" for maritime rescues along the Atlantic coast. It became a private residence in the 1940's.
The latest owner, Elizabeth Sheehan, had planned to have the house's newer sections demolished and the original structure moved. But because the house was in the historic district, the Preservation Commission had to approve. The commission denied the permit, and Mrs. Sheehan completed the sale to a Pennsylvania builder.
After a long battle, the City Council voted to apply for state Green Acres financing of $850,000 -- as it turned out, $120,000 more than the builder paid to buy the house. Last week, a grant and loan package was approved by the legislative committee in Trenton that allocates Green Acres funds. The city ordinance officially approving the deal is to be introduced this week. Meanwhile, the city is expected to negotiate with the developer for the purchase.
Last year, 301 dwelling units were demolished in Ocean City, and the total for the last three years is 731. They are most noticeable in the island's oldest section, from First to 18th Streets, which has buildings up to 120 years old. Homes in the historic district, roughly from Third to Ninth Streets, are protected in that a demolition cannot proceed if a buyer who will preserve the structure and will pay fair market value comes forward within a six-month waiting period.
Mr. Snyder said only one house in the district has been demolished. "The district works," he said.
But outside the district, he said, houses are routinely sold within hours and demolished within days. And on a stroll just beyond the district's boundaries, pointing out the Victorians and 1920s-vintage houses on Fourth Street, he repeated a fellow commission member's comment that "you can't save them all."
The city administrator, Richard Deaney, says the effect of the teardowns has been exaggerated. Of the 301 demolitions last year, he said, only 73 were single-family homes. "No doubt there are a lot of demolitions and a lot of duplexes being built," he said. "But there are also a lot of duplexes and other multifamily buildings being torn down."
Moreover, Mr. Deaney said, almost all the duplexes being built are in areas zoned for duplexes, even if they were occupied by single-family homes.
That is sparse comfort for preservationists. Many of the new side-by-side duplexes have spots of Victorian-style trim, which Mr. Swift calls "vinyl gingerbread," though their vintage is apparent from sliding doors and vinyl siding. And their neighbors miss the solid old houses that they are replacing.
"Every time I go down there I see another vacant lot," said Lisa Sarajian, a New Yorker who spends weekends in the meticulously kept arts-and-crafts-style house on Fourth Street that her parents bought when she was a child. Two doors down from her, an identical house was just sold to a developer.
"Since it's a middle-class community, lots of people are real estate rich but cash poor," she said. "It's easier for them to sell than to rehab the homes. They don't have the capital to save these structures. The dirt is worth more than what's on them."
That was the plight of Ms. Sheehan, a 59-year-old widow who had cared for her ailing father in the house until his death two years ago. In a memorandum she wrote to the Preservation Commission after it denied her application for a partial demolition permit in February, she said she had exhausted her assets and could not burden her children with the maintenance costs. The house will now be used as an education center concentrating on coastal history and environment. As more grant money becomes available, the newer sections can be stripped away and the original lifesaving station restored, said Councilman Jody Alessandrine, the council's chief advocate for the project.
Mr. Alessandrine said the city was initially reluctant to undertake any such thing.
"Their argument is that they don't want to get in the business of buying property," he said. "This is the only one that has the depth of historic value."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Developers who buy old houses and tear them down moved some residents to organize Citizens for Historic Preservation. Jack Snyder, chairman of the town's Historic Preservation Commission, below, helped save the historic Coast Guard station. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC COAST CARTON (53%); HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION (77%); COAST GUARD (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION (77%); COAST GUARD (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (88%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); ORDINANCES (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); FAMILY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); 

PERSON: DAVID L SWIFT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



409 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
Bricks, Mortarand Sociology

BYLINE: By JULIE FLAHERTY 

 BODY:
WHEN Nortel Networks consolidated its global headquarters in a renovated building in suburban Toronto in 1997, Roy Dohner, the vice president for real estate, wanted to see to it that the company changed its culture as well.
Employee surveys told him that the most irksome feature of the company's old main office was reserved parking. "If you had to park very far from the front door, it might give you an indication of the value the company placed on you," Mr. Dohner said. 
 So the new lot is general admission, and the staff is, he presumes, happy.
Moves like that make Mr. Dohner the very model of a modern corporate real estate executive, according to people in the field. Far from simple buying, leasing and building of space, the state of the real estate art is now all about collaboration and togetherness: gauging employee satisfaction alongside the human resources department, consulting with the finance people on costs and conferring regularly with the crew in information technology. The new ideal is to be a ground-level force for better morale, lower costs and higher productivity.
At least that was the talk at a recent conference for real estate executives in Boston, sponsored by a professional association called the International Development Research Council. And it is a theme that many managers have picked up.
PERSUADING the rest of the world of their importance to corporate America's bottom line is a matter of survival for real estate executives. The profession had a brush with extinction in the recession of the early 1990's, when corporate downsizing and a trend toward contracting out support functions combined to wipe out many in-house real estate departments.
"It was the clean-out period," said Bill Agnello, vice president for real estate and the workplace at Sun Microsystems. "The real estate function was at the end of the line."
Seeing its rolls dwindle, the professional association began promoting the idea that real estate can offer a competitive edge and that real estate managers are the people pushing that edge.
Much of the activity is on the human-element end of the new real estate spectrum -- Mr. Dohner's egalitarian parking, for example, or a stress-reduction drive at Charles Schwab & Company that was led by the company's real estate chief, Parkash Ahuja. To ease workers' minds about nagging personal annoyances, Mr. Ahuja introduced on-site concierge and dry cleaning services and asked the cafeteria to start selling take-home meals. Now, he said, "we have less absenteeism and employees tend to stay longer."
But real estate executives are more likely to get the attention of top management by delivering direct cost savings.
When Cisco Systems found that its sales representatives spent only about 30 percent of their time in their offices, the real estate department switched its focus from just providing square feet of space for those employees to supporting their mobility; it saved $12.6 million over five years in the company's Manhattan office through a desk-sharing arrangement.
AT Nortel, the move of offices from three Toronto locations to a renovated former factory in Brampton, Ontario, cut occupancy costs by two-thirds. The $50 million renovation, which included graffiti-style art to promote a casual atmosphere, was successful enough that Nortel held its shareholder meeting in the new offices, piping the proceedings to television sets around the building.
"Historically, real estate people want to have real estate monuments," Mr. Dohner said. This project, instead, was about "people, process and productivity," he said.
No one has yet demonstrated a clear link between pretty buildings and productive office workers. Measuring output is easy in factories, said Marina van Overbeek, a planning and design executive at Cisco, but gauging it in office work with a creative element is more elusive.
"One of the next challenges is white-collar productivity," she said. "How does the workplace impact productivity? It may not be a dollar measure."
Without an objective yardstick, executives rely on instinct. "What's really important is what feels good for us," said Mr. Agnello at Sun Microsystems. His company, with 15,000 new workers in the last five years, is changing too fast to stay with old real estate standards, he said.
At Sun's new $123 million facility in Burlington, Mass., individual offices are smaller than those the company had previously, and there are more spaces for small group meetings. Whether the design will prompt impromptu brainstorming sessions when employees pass in the hall, as the designers hoped, remains to be seen.
Is "corporate infrastructure resource management" -- a phrase that the International Development Research Council has registered as a service mark -- keeping corporate real estate professionals employed?
At Sun, the real estate department has 140 people, as it did five years ago. But now only a third of those workers handle traditional property-management tasks; the rest work on research and innovation.
For some real estate executives, the new approach is paying off in greater responsibility and more respect at the conference table. Mr. Agnello now reports regularly to Sun's chief financial officer and has the ear of the company's chairman, Scott McNealy. And Mr. Ahuja at Schwab now oversees all the corporate services that touch employees, including travel and payroll as well as real estate.
Although the council provides reams of literature on "strategic alignment" and "integrated management," it is hard to say how many companies have embraced the philosophy of real estate as a force for good.
Buzzwords aside, experts like Michael L. Joroff, a lecturer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a proponent of the broader approach to real estate management, say that technology, human resources and real estate departments will need to collaborate more, come what may. Trends toward telecommuting and the wider adoption of mobile communications mean that the future of business will be "intertwined platforms of brick and mortar and cyberspace," Mr. Joroff said.
At Fidelity Investments that means a move toward giving employees cell phones as their only telephones -- but not before the company studies how comfortable workers will be with the setup.
"It's easy technology," said Charlie Brenner, senior vice president at Fidelity's Center for Applied Technology. "It's odd sociology."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new corporate headquarters of Nortel Networks near Toronto is intended to keep employees functioning happily as well as efficiently. Graffiti-style art in a corridor is meant to promote a feeling of informality. (Phil Snel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTEL NETWORKS NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (93%); CHARLES SCHWAB & CO INC (63%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTEL NETWORKS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; LABOR; CORPORATIONS; REAL ESTATE; PRODUCTIVITY; OFFICES REAL ESTATE (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); WORKPLACE MORALE (77%); TRENDS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (77%); SALES & SELLING (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); SALES FORCE (60%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (50%); 

PERSON: FLAHERTY, JULIE ROY DOHNER (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



410 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2211 words

HEADLINE: A Lunch Counter for the City's Powerful

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
IT was a day in early June, a day of unusual social synergy, when normally opposing planets orbited each other for a brief moment, aligned and then spun back away into their separate universes.
In the Grill Room of the Four Seasons restaurant, Brooke Astor and Barbara Walters occupied the center booth. As delicate looking as a pair of painted dolls, the two, grande dames of New York society and media, did not sip their espressos; they merely touched the silver-rimmed cups occasionally with the most tentative, symbolic hand gestures. 
 In the middle of the room, the designer Yves Saint Laurent sat while a blonde -- his frequent companion, Betty Catroux -- spoke loud French and, holding up her arm as if for a bicep curl, fanned the air beneath her outstretched limb.
And at the far end of the room, the rock star Bono was arriving to sit down with Timothy P. Shriver, the director of the Special Olympics and the brother of Maria Shriver. His hair sprouting erratically upward, Bono wore wraparound sunglasses and took a seat next to a third table mate, a young woman who seemed to be wearing a children's toy in her hair. Bono craned his neck up to survey the room and mouthed one word, "Wow."
But no one bothered to look. Because in the Four Seasons -- where everyone is well known, wealthy, powerful, politically connected, supernaturally beautiful or just lucky to be there -- Bono was not, in this room, a world-famous rock star. He was just there.
The Four Seasons -- with its coolly elegant interior that is a designated city landmark -- is New York's ultimate grown-up version of the high school cafeteria, except every table is the cool table. On almost any weekday at lunch in the Grill Room -- the smaller of two rooms with 20-foot ceilings and walnut paneling -- there are so many familiar figures from finance, politics, media and fashion that this city of seven million can seem like Mayberry R.F.D., made up of 100 or so souls, and the Four Seasons its Snappy Lunch counter at the corner of Main and Elm Streets.
Designed by Philip Johnson, who is still given a daily corner booth, the restaurant opened on July 21, 1959, with a $4.5 million price tag -- in 1959 dollars -- that shocked even jaded New Yorkers. Some of the potential names for the restaurant considered by the then-owners, Restaurant Associates, included Cleopatra's, Season-o-Rama, Season-Go-Round and Restaurant of the Seven Wonders.
Forty years later, the Four Seasons thrives. Its singular role in the life of New York will be marked this Thursday at a 40th birthday party, whose hosts are Graydon Carter, the editor of Vanity Fair, and Edgar Bronfman Jr., the president of the Seagram Company, which has been the majority owner of the restaurant since 1996.
The Four Seasons may be the only place in the world where a plain baked potato -- without butter, without sour cream -- costs $9, a bottle of Bordeaux can easily run $800 and a woman who eschews dessert will find herself face to face with a three-foot-high pile of cotton candy, a not-so-subliminal exhortation from the waiter to eat.
Should you complain about the price of the baked potato, Julian Niccolini, the maitre d'hotel, will send a bushel of raw Idaho potatoes to your office, and raise the price on the menu.
Peter G. Petersen, the chairman of the investment banking firm Blackstone Group, and recipient of such a bushel, sums up the Four Seasons like this: "The booths are far enough apart that you can have a private discussion. The real New York, New Yorkers go there, like Lew Rudin, Barbara Walters, Diane Sawyer. And it's a social experience. You'll always see six or eight people who are fun to see."
Other New York restaurants have their particular crowds. Broadly speaking, Michael's attracts the publishing world, 44 at the Royalton Hotel the fashion industry, "21" Club the investment bankers and Wall Street, and Elaine's the cigar-chomping columnists and actors.
But none have the architectural grandeur of the Four Seasons or the ability to mix movers and shakers from across the board. If New York business and society were the "Godfather" mafia, the Four Seasons, wedged into a corner of the Seagram Building on Park Avenue and 52d Street, would be the meeting place of its five families' high commission.
At the same time, it maintains an unexpected level of democracy. Alan Richman, the food critic for GQ magazine, said that the Four Seasons "is one of the last high-level democratic institutions." He continued: "You'll see S. I. Newhouse sitting next to a tourist from Cleveland. It's one of the things I love about the place."
Political reputations are not burnished to a high gleam at "21" Club, whereas Richard C. Holbrooke, the investment banker who is the President's nominee to be chief envoy to the United Nations, is a weekly regular at the Four Seasons. And so is Alfonse D'Amato, who may no longer have a political reputation to buff, but he dined there last Monday with Charles A. Gargano, New York State's Commissioner of Economic Development, and Steven T. Florio, the president of Conde Nast Magazines. The assumption that deal-making is always the matter at hand is clearly in effect: "There's nothing going on here!" Mr. Florio said upon spying a reporter and waving his hands in front of him, as if to deflect a wild-eyed member of the paparazzi.
"It's the Fortune 500 Mortimer's," said Michael Batterberry, a cultural historian and co-author of "On the Town in New York: The Landmark History of Eating, Drinking and Entertainments from the American Revolution to the Food Revolution" (Routledge, 1998). "Symbolically, its landmark status is apt in that sense. People who eat there are painfully famous, and excited to see each other, and famous people seem to need that kind of exclusive shelter."
Mr. Batterberry added that much of the restaurant's feeling of finesse and pranksterish joie de vivre emanate from Mr. Niccolini, a native of Tuscany, who is also its co-manager and a minority owner. (His rather more forbidding Austrian counterpart, Alex von Bidder, is the restaurant's general manager and also a minority owner.) "Julian understands the discreet hand-flashing and signals, the subtle salutations across a sea of celebrities," Mr. Batterberry said. "By now, I think it is indestructible."
Mr. Niccolini, indeed, plays the role of conductor. Every morning before 11 A.M., he begins constructing that day's seating chart, as elaborate a diagram as a set of stage directions for a Puccini opera. His theory is simple: "If I see a story in the newspaper pitting two people against each other," he said last week over a glass of 1996 Clos St. Denis, "then I try and put them near each other. If I see that an ex-boyfriend and an ex-girlfriend are coming in, Whoops! They go next to each other." He paused, sipped his wine, and said: "Take into consideration that I am a devil. But I am a good devil."
Mr. Niccolini takes pride that he is as much an agent provocateur as he is a restaurateur. Two weeks ago, Mr. Niccolini seated the Washington Post columnist Lally Weymouth directly across the room from Andrew Stein, the former Manhattan borough president. Mr. Stein was lunching with Shirley MacLaine, a longtime friend. Mr. Niccolini said he watched, bemused, as Mr. Stein beckoned Ms. Weymouth to come over and visit their table several times.
"Ms. Weymouth thought I was playing Cupid," Mr. Niccolini said. And he did not deny it.
If decorum seems to accompany every meal at the Four Seasons, it is not always the central ingredient. Last summer, for example, there was "the naked ladies' incident," as the staff calls it. "A certain New York gentleman of means," Mr. Niccolini said, asked him to make sure that his girlfriend and three companions had a nice lunch in the restaurant's adjoining Pool Room, which features a softly splashing fountain constructed of white Carrara marble.
"How much did they drink?" Mr. Niccolini asked himself, stroking his chin and lifting one eyebrow. "They drank eight bottles. No, it was 11 bottles of wine. I walked up to see how they were doing -- it was four women, and 11 bottles of wine is a lot, you know? One woman said to me, 'Julian, can I go for a swim?' No one was left in the Pool Room, so I said: 'Fine. Do whatever you want.' And she took off the napkin on her lap, and she was totally naked!"
The four women slipped into the pool, he said. He did not stop them.
"Stop them?" he asked, his eyes wide. "But I'm Italian!"
The women splashed around in the 400-square-foot pool until the staff gathered, Mr. Niccolini said, and then he offered them tablecloths as towels. The bill for lunch -- 11 bottles of excellent wine and a few salads -- was $7,000.
In another oft-told incident, Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue, was seated in a booth a couple of years ago when an animal rights protester managed to wind her way past Mr. Niccolini and toss a frozen raccoon on the table, in protest of Vogue's fondness for fur. Richard D. Beckman, the publisher of Vogue (and a man who chose the Pool Room as the site for his wedding last fall), said that Mr. Niccolini picked up the raccoon with a tablecloth and asked the woman, "Would you like me to put this in the freezer for you?" (Mr. Niccolini said that he did not remember exactly what he said, but he was sure it was not that witty.)
It was Lee Eisenberg, writing in Esquire magazine in the late 1970's, who is thought to have coined the term "power lunch" in a reference to the noon meal at the Four Seasons. And there, last Wednesday, was the Israeli Ambassador to the United Nations, Dore Gold, with Ms. Weymouth. ("She's having a good hair day today," Mr. Niccolini mused.) There was Barry Diller, Art Buchwald, Mortimer Zuckerman and Joe Armstrong, the publisher of Capital Publishing, who last month wandered over to Brooke Astor's table, kissed her on the cheek and said, "Brooke, did you get that flashlight I sent you last week?" (Mrs. Astor, he explained, was traveling to England, and she had complained to him about the habit in English country houses of turning off the electricity at night.)
On another date earlier this month, Vernon Jordan worked the room, receiving at least three visitors to his booth, and stopping by at least three more tables. Senator Charles Schumer dined in late May with Mr. Bronfman, atop the Grill Room balcony, Mr. Bronfman's usual aerie. Lisa Caputo, Hillary Rodham Clinton's former press secretary, at center stage down below, wiggled her finger in their direction and, the husky tones of intrigue coloring her voice, said, "I wonder what's going on up there?"
The Four Seasons works in part thanks to the daily choreography of Mr. Niccolini, and to the famous clientele, further guaranteed by the presence of the dashing Mr. Bronfman -- with his dining companions from the worlds of politics, business and Hollywood. The restaurant's landlord is the current owner of the Seagram Building, the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund. "The rent is substantial, but it allows us to stay in business," Mr. von Bidder said. The restaurant generates about $16 million a year in revenue, according to Restaurants and Institutions Newsletter, the sixth-highest-grossing restaurant in the city. It ranks behind Tavern on the Green, Windows on the World, Smith & Wollensky, Sparks and "21" Club. But whereas those others earn their grosses primarily through high turnover of the tables, the slower-paced Four Seasons charges sky-high prices -- an average of $100 a person with wine. The Zagat Survey ranked it No. 1 in popularity in 1989, 1990 and 1991; it is now No. 7.
In these giddy times, the prices have not kept customers away. John Mariani, the author of "The Four Seasons: A History of America's Premiere Restaurant" (Crown, 1994), said that 20 years ago, the restaurant tended to frighten customers with its frosty treatment. "The first time I went there, I tell you, I was coming up that stairway, and I did not find it a happy place to be," he said. "It was back in the 70's, and my college friends and I brought my mother there for drinks, because it was all we could afford. And we walked out on the bill because no one would bother to bring it to us." Mr. Mariani said he has owed them $17 ever since. "There was something fierce about it then. But they have loosened up. In terms of the parties they have and the kinds of things they'll let you do there, well, with enough money, you can get them to do anything for you."
For the restaurant's 40th-birthday cocktail party this week, more than 800 guests -- Ronald O. Perelman, Wendy Wasserstein, Charlie Rose, Tommy Mottola, Barry Diller, Edward I. Koch, Jonathan Tisch, Bryant Gumbel, Larry Gagosian, David N. Dinkins -- are expected to throng the Pool and Grill Rooms.
And Mr. Richman, the GQ critic, is nervous. "People are calling me to see if I can bring them," he said. "This is the first out-of-control event I have heard of at the Four Seasons. So this party gives me the chills. I definitely wanted to be there when it was a mere 40th-anniversary cocktail party. Now, do I want to be there just because it's important to be there?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A high school cafeteria for grown-ups, but one where every table is the cool table. (pg. 1); Power restaurateurs: Alex von Bidder, left, and Julian Niccolini, experts at handling movers and shakers of all stripes, at the bar off the Grill Room. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Lunch time by the pool: As it marks its 40th anniversary, the Four Seasons remains a command performance. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS & COATS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FOUR SEASONS (NYC RESTAURANT) YVES ST LAURENT GROUPE SCA (57%); RESTAURANT ASSOCIATES CATERING (51%); RESTAURANT ASSOCIATES CORP (51%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (56%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOUR SEASONS (NYC RESTAURANT) SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (56%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES RESTAURANTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); TOYS & GAMES (71%); OLYMPICS (53%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX BONO (87%); BARBARA WALTERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



411 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: VICARIOUS CONSUMPTION;
The Cash Of the Irish Is Talking In Castles

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: RECESS, Ireland

 BODY:
FOR SALE: castles in Ireland and other grand piles from Kildare to Kilkenny. Starting prices: $2.5 million to $15 million-plus. Possible buyers: any of a number of Irish millionaires who, in a scant few years of economic lift-off, have suddenly displaced Americans and other foreigners as the prime purchasers of high-ticket real estate hereabouts.
"The nouveau riche," said Jack Fagan, property editor of The Irish Times, "are really coming into their own." 
 True, many of Ireland's great houses, from Ashford Castle in County Mayo near here to Adare Manor near Limerick, remain in the hands of Americans and other outsiders who bought in the years before the high-technology and financial services industries fired up the Irish economy and persuaded many Irish emigrants to reverse their tracks. Thomas Kane, a former Wall Street broker from Juno Beach, Fla., has owned the luxurious Adare Manor since 1987. Kevin Crowe, chairman of the Essex Corporation, a New York investment firm, is chairman of the board at Ashford Castle, west of here on the shores of Lough Corrib. (Ashford is used as a hotel, with rates of up to $660 a night, breakfast not included.)
Anthony F. J. O'Reilly, the American-based Irish newspaper owner and the former chief executive of H. J. Heinz, has stakes in Ashford Castle and another mansion used as a hotel -- Dromoland Castle in County Clare -- plus his own private redoubt, Castlemartin in County Kildare, 20 miles south of Dublin.
Real estate agents say the market-movers these days are more likely to be home-grown beneficiaries of this country's boom in software and information technology. In Dublin, that surge has seen prices for ordinary houses -- let alone castles, manors and country estates -- triple in three years.
"The economy is doing well, and there's a lot of disposable income out there," said Edward Townsend, a Dublin agent with Jackson-Stops McCabe. "Before, you would have had 60 percent of country houses bought by overseas buyers and 40 percent Irish. Now it's the other way round."
SO what's up for grabs among the castle set? Two of Ireland's most celebrated mansions are in the current offerings, with the sellers apparently looking to take advantage of the hot market.
Renata Coleman, a German businesswoman and polo player, is selling Humewood Castle, below the Wicklow Hills south of Dublin; the starting price for bids is $15 million. The castle -- a crenelated, 16-bedroom, 60,000-square-foot chunk of 19th-century gothic -- ranks among the most expensive country houses on sale in recent years. Included in the 480-acre estate are a polo ground and four lakes, two of them built in the last seven years, for duck-shooting.
The kind of buyers she has in mind seems apparent from a glossy brochure laden with photographs of four-poster beds and ambassadorial tables. The castle, it says, would make a pretty good hotel, corporate entertainment center or private home.
Farmleigh, the 78-acre Dublin home of the Guinness family, is also on the market, and there is talk in real estate circles of a big American hotel chain maneuvering to buy it. The winner will get 10 bedroom suites with private bathrooms, an additional 10 bedrooms and 4 bathrooms, not to mention sundry lodges, houses, courtyards, garages, coach houses and stables. There is a pool, of course, a snooker room and a library stacked with leather-bound tomes.
The minimum-bid target for Farmleigh is "substantially in excess" of $15 million. Considering the huge maintenance and staff bills that accrue to owners of castles pretty much anywhere -- along with the price of horses to put in the stables, cars to put in the garages and grand entertainment to match the palatial salons -- that might seem a tidy sum, even for Ireland's newly rich.
But, said Mr. Fagan at The Irish Times: "Lately, we have probably thrown up more millionaires than any other country. And they are buying up the best houses."
Hugh Hamilton of the Dublin realtors Hamilton, Osborne King had pretty much the same story. "The majority of the properties are bought by either Irish or people with Irish connections," he said. But Americans, he said, "are certainly part of the market," as Christine and Walter Griffith of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., can attest.
They are selling their Irish home -- the nine-bedroom Rossennara House at Kilmoganny, County Kilkenny (asking price: around $2.25 million), which they bought in 1980 from Richard Condon, the writer. For people looking for an American connection, this might be it: Mr. Griffith, his wife said, is descended from two American Presidents -- the Adamses -- and Rossennara was designed by James Hoban, whose other commissions include the White House. Frank Sinatra is said to have stayed there.
Staff quarters and an indoor swimming pool are included, naturally. "You do need staff," said Mrs. Griffith, who is Irish.
But why buy in Ireland? "There's a lot of peace and quiet and security, and it's crime-free," she said by telephone from Fort Lauderdale. "It's where time stands still. Here, everything is go-go-go." So far, she said, she is still looking for someone willing to spend the money on those charms.
THE eventual buyers of the current crop of castles and country homes, however, are certain to discover that running a mansion requires deep pockets -- as some Americans found after an earlier wave of purchases.
As head of a largely American syndicate, Minerva Mason, an American from Jacksonville, Fla., has been closely involved for the last 20 years in the running of Ballynahinch Castle near this town in Connemara, County Galway. Ballynahinch, renowned for its fishing, its 350-acre landscaped estate and 13,000 acres of woodcock shooting, has been operated as a hotel since the 1940's. It came into American hands in 1957 for a fraction of its present value, which Mrs. Mason put at around $15 million.
Mrs. Mason, who spends three months a year in a separate house on the castle grounds, reckons she has sunk "millions" into the castle's 28 guest rooms, and is still investing by adding an annex of 12 rooms.
Whatever their cost, mansions mean different things to different people. For some, like the Griffiths at Rossennara, a castle, or at least a manor house, can actually be a home. For others, like the owners of Ashford Castle, they are commercial properties run as luxury resorts. For yet others, they are symbols of having arrived. Whatever the reasons for ownership, it's easy to imagine the cachet that comes with it. "It's a good conversation starter," said Mrs. Mason at Ballynahinch, "to say 'I'm going to my castle in Ireland.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Humewood Castle, in County Wicklow, Ireland, is up for sale, for a minimum of $15 million. With Ireland's economy continuing to boom, more of the country's great estates are being bought by the Irish themselves, reversing a trend toward foreign ownership. (Jacqueline O'Brien)
 
Chart: "Dream On
If your heart is set on an Irish castle, and your budget is willing, here are some prime candidates.
 
Humewood Castle
County Wicklow. Built in 1867. 16 bedrooms, 60,000 square feet, 480 acres. Price: $15 million-plus.
Information: Sotheby's International Realty, London, 011-44-171-598-1600 or emma.olivier@sothebys.com.
 
Rossennara
County Kilkenny. Built 1824. 9 bedrooms, 12,500 square feet, 10 acres. Designed by James Hoban, architect of the White House.
Price: about $2.25 million.
Information: Sotheby's International Realty, in London, 011-44-171-598-1600, or in New York, 212-606-4100. www.sothebysrealty.com.
 
Farmleigh
Outskirts of Dublin. Built in the late 19th century. 20 bedrooms, 40,000 square feet in main house, 78 acres. The Guinness family's Dublin home.
Price: about $15 million.
Information: Hamilton Osborne King, Dublin, 011-353-1-618-1300, info@hok.ie. Or Knight Frank International, London,
011-44-171-629-8171, country.houses@knightfrank.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (69%); NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (69%); SIC3489 ORDNANCE & ACCESSORIES, NEC (69%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (54%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (54%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INC (69%); H J HEINZ CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND; UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: PALACES AND CASTLES; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); LAKES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



412 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
One Bump in Rates Isn't a Mountain

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
IS the worst over?
It's easy to think so after a week in which the Consumer Price Index for May came in unchanged from April and Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, seemed to signal that the central bank may need only a modest increase in its short-term interest rate target to slow growth, deflate this year's inflation boomlet and keep the economy on track. 
 The shift in sentiment was big. A week ago, the yield on the 30-year bond jumped to an 18-month high of 6.16 percent as investors thought that two -- or even three -- rate increases were possible. By Friday, the yield had tumbled back below 6 percent, to 5.97 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished the week up 3.8 percent.
While investors may be relieved, what the Fed will do after policy makers meet on June 30 -- when they are almost certain to raise their short-term interest rate target a quarter of a percentage point -- is still up in the air.
And the spreads between yields on Treasury securities and corporate bonds, junk bonds and emerging-markets debt are still wide enough to indicate that some investors see the risk of near-term turmoil.
Mr. Greenspan signaled a rate increase when he told the Joint Economic Committee of Congress that "when we can be pre-emptive we should be, because modest pre-emptive actions can obviate the need of more drastic actions at a later date that could destabilize the economy."
Investors took their cues from "modest" and "more drastic action" and concluded that one rate increase might be enough.
But Mr. Greenspan sent other signals that can be interpreted to mean rate increases will go as far as needed to assure that economic growth slows to around a 3 percent rate.
Specifically, he said the 4 percent average annual growth of the last four years was based on a two percentage-point increase in worker productivity and a one percentage-point increase in the working-age population. The remaining point, he said, came from the shrinking of the pool of job seekers without work.
That last development "represents an unsustainable trend," Mr. Greenspan said. Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, said Mr. Greenspan has set a speed limit because he does not want a further decline in the unemployment rate. If that happens, Mr. Greenspan faces the inflationary wage increases that the Fed is determined to avoid.
"A bull would say, 'I think the economy will slow down pretty much on its own, so we are fine,' " Mr. Barbera said. "A bear would say, 'Greenspan told us rates are going up until the economy slows down.' "
STILL, the worst may be over for the average investor, who should look beyond that uncertainty. If the Fed does what is expected -- and there is no good reason to think that it won't -- then the outlook for both bonds and stocks is positive over the longer term. And market timing is not a game that smaller investors -- with long-term goals -- should play in any case.
The immediate market reaction to rate increases often ignores the long-term perspective. "The knee-jerk reaction -- one never knows. It can be bad," said Abby Joseph Cohen, the market strategist at Goldman Sachs & Company. "What matters is what happens after that." After the necessary rate increase -- she is not predicting how many will be needed to slow growth -- she expects the market outlook to improve, helped by what she believes will be good second-quarter earnings reports. The second quarter, Ms. Cohen added, might even be strong enough to make her increase her corporate earnings forecast, which is now 7 to 8 percent growth this year and next.
That means investors can consider picking up some bonds on the assumption that they will rally as rates fall -- in the second half of the year ---- in the wake of a Fed success. And sticking with stocks looks O.K., too, as good earnings reports should be even a better bet in the third and fourth quarters as the comparisons to 1998 get easier.
The Fed, Ms. Cohen said, "can do this in a way that does not harm the economy." As she did with the one-quarter-point rate increase in March 1997, Ms. Cohen is calling this a "flu shot." Yes, it hurts. But it staves off something worse.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Yes, but Will It Hurt?"
Many investors expect the Federal Reserve to raise the Federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks by 0.25 percent. But they wonder whether it will be a one- time increase, as it was in March 1997 -- a move that became known as the flu shot.The graph shows the movement of the Federal funds target rate since 1993. (Sources: Federal Reserve Bank of New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM HOENIG & CO INC (62%); HOENIG & CO LTD (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BONDS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



413 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2179 words

HEADLINE: Why the Keepers of Oneida Don't Care to Share the Table

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

DATELINE: ONEIDA, N.Y.

 BODY:
IT began in the 1840's as a rejection of the world at large, a breakaway utopian experiment that combined the dignity of work with the joy of sex amid the upheaval wrought by the Industrial Revolution. But it has evolved, primly enough, into the nation's largest manufacturer of stainless steel knives, forks and spoons.
The original experiment, the Oneida Community, succumbed to the tug of secular forces around it. And now its corporate descendant, Oneida Ltd., is struggling not to fall off the economic tidal wave of the late 20th century: globalization. 
 Till now, the global trend has contributed mightily, if sometimes indirectly, to Oneida's success. Competition from third-world countries has trimmed the number of flatware makers with factories in the United States to just one -- Oneida -- from more than two dozen 15 years ago. And globalization has made it easy for the company to open a factory in Mexico and set up agreements with manufacturers in China. It has also led to international alliances like one with CALP S.p.A., an Italian maker of crystal that Oneida sells under its own name.
But with its imperatives of scale and, consequently, of consolidation, global competition has also made Oneida a prime takeover target. Three months ago, its chief rival, the Libbey Corporation, based in Toledo, Ohio, made a hostile play for the company, causing no small uproar inside the stone fortress, complete with its own ZIP code, that is Oneida's corporate headquarters.
A marriage of the two medium-sized companies, some analysts say, would let them fight off foreign competitors rather than hurling china at each other. After all, Libbey controls the institutional market in glassware, and Oneida controls the institutional market for silverware. Both now make plates, and Oneida is trying to enter Libbey's glassware business while Libbey is trying to get into Oneida's flatware business. "It's a phenomenal strategic fit," said Arnold Ursaner, a managing director who follows Libbey for CJS Securities in White Plains.
The problem is that Oneida has wanted none of it. In fact, the company has been so opposed that senior management hasn't even discussed the idea with anyone from Libbey. Every company has a culture, and Oneida's seems deeply rooted in an old-fashioned determination to go its own way.
Last week, Libbey fattened its offer to $625 million, or $37.50 a share, up from $500 million, or $30 a share. There was no immediate response from Oneida. Its board, which unanimously rejected the first offer, is expected to meet this week to consider the new one.
Oneida's stubbornness is based on a belief, not unfounded, that it knows what it's doing. "We've been able to prove to our shareholders that the strategic plan that is in place is the best value for them," said Peter D. Kallet, who was appointed chief executive six months ago. The plan calls for steady growth through joint ventures, licensing agreements and other steps to increase sales with relatively low capital investment.
But there seems to be at least some concern outside the executive suite. Oneida's annual meeting, usually attended by a couple of hundred semi-interested shareholders, was standing room only this year, overflowing with more than 750 people and alive with questions about the Libbey bid and Oneida's future. Mr. Kallet's unequivocal response: The company is not for sale.
A craving for independence is one legacy the company retains from the Oneida Community. Among the landmarks dotting the sweep of green Oneida property is the Proxy Oak, planted in the mid-1960's after the company held off a takeover bid from a pair of investors and now billowing some 50 feet high.
"It's in memory of a victory," said John D. Raynsford, a soft-spoken print production manager who is descended on his mother's side from the original community. "We kept the purchasing company off our backs." Even after last year, when the company had one of its worst financial performances in recent memory, Mr. Kallet and other executives sound briskly confident that they will be able to hold off any buyers by sticking to their strategy.
INVESTORS in Oneida's stock have been bounced around over the last year. A year ago, the shares traded at more than $32. In October, the price plummeted to $12.813, and on Friday it closed at $31.0625, thanks in large part to the Libbey offer.
At Libbey, where the chief executive sounds annoyed that Oneida doesn't even want to discuss a merger, there is a different strategy. The consolidation in the food service and retail industries leaves suppliers -- like Libbey and Oneida -- no choice but to follow the same path, said John F. Meier, Libbey's chairman and chief executive. "The real competitor of the future is the increasing global competition," he said. "How do we best align ourselves to compete? Five years from now, Libbey isn't going to be losing sleep over Oneida's glassware. It's going to be over glassware from the People's Republic of China."
The Chinese don't seem to worry Oneida management, and maybe that stems from history, too. The Oneida Community, whose products included animal traps and silk thread, adapted well to economic shifts. The company, formed in 1879, branched out into carpet bags, surgical tools and even, during wartime, shell casings and hand grenades.
"They were always willing to try new ways to make money," said Paul E. Gebhardt, a direct descendant of the community's founder, John Humphrey Noyes. "They were capitalists to their core." Mr. Gebhardt designs flatware for Oneida, and his passion for craft items like Russell Wright pottery seems more or less inherited, though he buys them through Ebay, the Web auction site.
Mr. Meier said he first raised the idea of a merger four years ago, but his chief contact at Oneida, Gary Moreau, then the chief operating officer, wound up resigning. (He is now president of Lionel, the model train company, and serves on the Libbey board.) "They have simply said 'we're not interested, we prefer to remain independent and we believe in the merits of our own strategic plan, thank you very much,' " he said. So, taking the matter into his own hands, Mr. Meier has begun meeting with some of Oneida's major shareholders, with what he says are fruitful results. "They see the wisdom of this offer," he said.
That may not mean they agree. One of the company's five biggest shareholders, the Homestead Funds, listened to Mr. Meier earlier this month. "We think we understand what he's trying to accomplish," said Stuart Teach, the senior equity portfolio manager, who controls about 10 percent of Oneida stock through the funds and a separate pension group. "As to whether we appreciate what he's doing toward Oneida, that's another story. Oneida has a very fine story to tell also."
After the offer was raised to $37.50 a share, however, Mr. Teach sounded more interested in Libbey's case. "Suffice to say, this was a leap forward by the Libbey people," he said. Other major shareholders, including Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, would not comment.
Last year, Oneida went through a series of restructurings and write-downs and closed a factory in Canada, all with the intent of saving about $20 million a year. About 140 additional jobs are to be trimmed this year through early retirements.
In the first quarter of this year, sales rose 10 percent from the corresponding period a year earlier, while earnings zoomed 25 percent. That is not counting a one-time $18 million loss from restructuring.
"Their information technology is good, and that's critical to being competitive," said John B. Walthausen, an analyst for C. L. King & Associates in New York. "In some ways, they are old-fashioned. In other ways, I don't think they are."
Oneida has never bothered much with marketing itself to Wall Street. About 17 percent of the stock is owned by its employees, and most of the rest by institutional investors. Mr. Walthausen is the only analyst in the country who covers the company.
But behind its reserved facade, Oneida aggressively seeks to dominate the table-setting business, starting with stainless flatware. Its luxury patterns are on view at Macy's, and its budget brands appear on airline trays at 35,000 feet. Its china patterns show up on bridal registries, at Disney World buffets and, according to Edward W. Thoma, the company's senior vice president for finance, at the Turning Stone casino, run by the Oneida Nation, just a few miles from company headquarters.
The company has succeeded by straddling the worlds of consumer goods and institutional products. Its china brands include Noritake and Buffalo China, a widely used restaurant brand. It also makes silver-plated serving pieces for the hotel and restaurant trade at a plant in Shanghai, and recently signed a deal that will have Amway representatives selling its flatware.
And in a move that no doubt stuck in the Libbey craw, Oneida entered the food service glassware business last year. Using products bought from a Turkish maker, Oneida is urging hotel and restaurant customers to buy glasses as part of its food service package. Libbey sued Oneida earlier this year, maintaining that seven of the glass designs were intentional copies of long-established Libbey styles. The lawsuit, which Oneida says has no basis, is pending.
"It's going right at the heart of Libbey's core business," Mr. Walthausen said of Oneida's latest move.
THE two companies are roughly the same size. Libbey has a market capitalization of $510 million, compared with $518.8 million for Oneida. Their annual sales equal those figures almost to the dollar. Neither company is big enough, in other words, to throw its weight around in the global economy.
"Oneida's shareholders are probably being disadvantaged by Oneida management not even being willing to sit down and talk," said Mr. Ursaner of CJS Securities. "The new C.E.O. seems very focused on power and control."
Mr. Kallet says it's not up to him, but to the board.
"The consumer has confidence when they buy our product," he said. "We have the attitude that the customer is right. And if they lose a spoon, they can get another spoon. We're going to be here."
Mr. Kallet, 52, seems to have been born with an Oneida spoon in his mouth. He joined the company directly out of Syracuse University in 1967 and has worked in practically every area of its business, most recently running the food service division. He took over as chief executive from William D. Matthews, who had held the job for 12 years and remains chairman, with about 1 percent of the company's stock in his name.
Mr. Kallet's rise illustrates Oneida's propensity to promote from within. Even the company's outside directors are largely drawn from the immediate vicinity.
"We're not afraid to bring in new people, if there's a requirement," Mr. Kallet said, ticking off three senior management jobs that have been filled by outsiders. "Over the last six or seven years, we've brought in more non-Oneida-raised people."
If growth is the object, why doesn't Oneida buy Libbey? "That's been examined and rejected as well," Mr. Thoma said. "If you're going to make an acquisition, you look for one with the least overlap, because that causes redundancies. There isn't a lot of synergy in that one."
Synergy was an idea that worked for the Oneida Community. The daily life of its 300 members revolved around the Mansion House, an angular red-brick complex that today is a kind of community center and senior citizens' residence. The company sold the structure several years ago, though it continues to use some rooms for various functions.
Members of the Oneida Community called themselves "Perfectionists" and believed that God demanded variety in all aspects of life, including sex. Monogamy was considered impure, and older community members were assigned to introduce younger ones to what they considered the holy pleasures of the flesh, according to "Without Sin," a 1993 history of the community by Spencer Klaw. Everything outside the community was called "the World." Children were raised collectively, spending much of their time in a house that was connected to the Mansion House by an underground tunnel.
The commune officially disbanded in 1881, although former members continued to operate the company for some time. Vestiges of the community are everywhere, from Thanksgiving reunions of Noyes descendants to Oneida's stock symbol, OCQ, which stands for Oneida Community Quality. "Perfectionism really carried the day for them," Mr. Gebhardt said, recalling his ancestors. "In business, they always felt they could better the competition."
But just as the Oneida Community was ultimately consumed by "the World," the world economy could become an issue for Oneida Ltd. Mr. Meier, Libbey's chief executive, is relentless about achieving strength through unity. "We are both public companies, and we have an obligation to sustain as best we can long-term shareholder value," he said. "Our offer is still out there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (pg. 1); The Oneida Community, left, was founded by John Humphrey Noyes. (Oneida Community Mansion House); Peter Kallet, left, chief executive of Oneida, in front of the Proxy Oak. It was planted after the company, proud of its independence, turned back a 1960's takeover attempt. Paul E. Gebhardt, above, a descendant of Noyes, designs flatware. (Photographs by Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 
Map showing the location of Oneida, N.Y.: The company hasn't left Oneida, N.Y., since its start in 1879. (pg. 13)
 
Graph: "Full Platter"
Oneida has struggled to cut costs. But the stock is up as it fights off a suitor. The graph shows the operating income, stock price, and sales since January 1998. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS327215 GLASS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (92%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3914 SILVERWARE, PLATED WARE, & STAINLESS STEEL WARE (92%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: ONEIDA LTD; LIBBEY CORP ONEIDA LTD (92%); CRISTALLERIA ARTISTICA LA PIANA SPA (CALP) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ONEIDA LTD; LIBBEY CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES GLOBALIZATION (90%); CUTLERY & FLATWARE MFG (89%); GLASS PRODUCTS MFG (89%); HOUSEWARES & FURNISHINGS MFG (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); TRENDS (75%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); 

PERSON: KORMAN, RICHARD PETER D KALLET (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



414 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Despite the Fears, Inflation Still Refuses to Materialize

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
IS inflation rising in America? No, it is not. Just look at the numbers. Is it about to start rising? That depends on whom you talk to. Wall Street forecasters worry that it soon will, that America is still inflation-prone. But talk to the people who compile the monthly inflation numbers. They are singularly unconcerned.
"Over the last couple of years, we have had the best inflation picture -- the lowest inflation rate -- since the first half of the 1960's, and there is no evidence of any change coming in that situation," said Patrick Jackman, chief of the division at the Bureau of Labor Statistics that puts together the Consumer Price Index. 
 The index jumped 0.7 percent in April -- scaring Wall Street but not the public, according to the University of Michigan's weekly consumer surveys -- and then fell back to a zero increase in May. All of the odd circumstances that pushed inflation up in April disappeared in May. And the June data collected so far by Mr. Jackman's people suggest that inflation this month will turn out to be similarly mild.
"The only concern for June lies in higher fruit and vegetable prices because of a drought in many parts of the country," Mr. Jackman said in an interview.
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, made a similarly sanguine prediction last Thursday, the day after the May C.P.I. figure was released. "For the period immediately ahead," Mr. Greenspan told Congress, "inflationary pressures still seem well contained."
So why all the hand-wringing? Why all the talk of raising interest rates to head off inflation, when the inflation rate is not rising and shows no sign of starting to do so?
Plenty of reasons are offered, of course: tight labor markets, strong economic growth, an overexuberant stock market, incipient recoveries elsewhere in the world and that old standby, mothballed for months: a need to strike pre-emptively to minimize a future inflationary surge.
"A stitch in time saves nine," said William Dudley, director of domestic economic research at Goldman Sachs, invoking a favorite Wall Street metaphor to justify a pre-emptive rate increase by the Federal Reserve.
Rarely in recent years, however, has inflation seemed less threatening. Consider the April surge. Gasoline prices accounted for half the reported increase, and they rose mainly in response to fears that the oil-producing countries would cut back production. But the expected shortages have not materialized. Gasoline prices rose only slightly in May, and initial surveys show that they have fallen in June, Mr. Jackman said.
The rest of the April rise in the C.P.I. -- the only significant increase in months -- came mainly in prices of tobacco, apparel and hotel lodging. Cigarette makers discounted prices in March and then removed the discounts in April, a standard off-and-on marketing practice. In apparel, an early Easter brought discounts in March and a rebound to standard prices in April. Women's clothes were discounted in May, Mr. Jackman said, and men's clothing prices are usually cut after Father's Day. "July, you are discounting everything," he said.
Seasonal adjustments were largely responsible for the lodging spike. Mr. Jackman's people generally expect hotel and resort rates to fall in April, as the winter vacation season ends, and to rise again in June for the summer season; these expectations are built into the C.P.I. pricing formula. But the industry is pushing on-season and off-season prices closer together. Until the old formula can be updated, it will produce artificial price "changes" in some months.
And so it goes. Are there shortages of goods or services, given the strong consumer demand? Not at all, the data indicate. Are prices rising for imports, a big source of inexpensive goods? No. Excluding oil, import prices fell significantly in the first five months of the year.
Take another tack. Argue that the C.P.I. cannot continue to rise so slowly -- at an annual rate of only 2.1 percent through May -- when the economy is growing so strongly. But here, too, illusion plays a role.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics has been making its method of calculating the index more accurate and applying it to figures dating back to 1995. When and if the improvements are extended further back, annual inflation in earlier years will be revised downward by 0.4 percentage points, according to an article, soon to be published, by two of Mr. Jackman's staff economists.
So the fall in inflation since 1995 isn't as sharp as the unadjusted figures now make it appear. If the inflation rate were measured in the old pre-1995 way, it would be closer to 3 percent, said Alan Blinder, a Princeton economist, and we would say inflation has been stable since 1994.
Since the inflation rate is used to determine the nation's economic growth rate, the perspective has to be fixed there, too. When that happens, today's growth will not seem so strong relative to the past.
Still, a small rate increase when the Fed's policymakers meet on June 29 and 30 may well be good strategy for other reasons, like calming nerves, or taking some of the bubble out of stock prices, or satisfying expectations on Wall Street. But invoking inflation -- even not-so-imminent inflation -- as justification for a rate increase does not wash. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); STATISTICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



415 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 5; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: What You Don't Want To See in a Boss-to-Be

BYLINE: By TOM KUNTZ 

 BODY:
WITH the economy booming, the future's so bright for this year's crop of college grads that, as the song says, they gotta wear shades.
Yet of course, not every job interview goes swimmingly. 
 Recently in this space, prospective employers shared their recollections of the most clueless applicants to ever walk in the door -- including one loser who had a pizza delivered in mid-interview and another who showed up in her bathing suit.
Now it's time to turn the tables -- with job seekers' critical assessments of their corporate recruiters.
The quotations below were collected in a written survey of college seniors and post-graduates conducted this year by WetFeet.com, an on-line job-market information service for students. TOM KUNTZ
"During an interview, I was describing my work experience, and the recruiter picked up his cell phone and checked his voice mail while I was still talking."
* "One of my interviewers ate an ice cream cone throughout the entire 30-minute interview. He kept apologizing and said that it was just too good to pass up."
* "While interviewing with a Big Five accounting firm for a management consulting position, the interviewer spoke about his life and past jobs for 38 minutes of the 45-minute interview."
* "I interviewed with two women from a company, one right after the other, and they both spilled their coffee on themselves."
* "My future boss stood in the doorway and started scratching his back on the door frame like a big bear."
* "When asked where I want to work, I replied New York City. And the interviewer responded, 'How about I put St. Louis?' "
* "I was so excited when I heard that there was a Fed Ex waiting for me outside my dorm room. I figured it was details about a 'Super Saturday' of final round interviews, but in fact they apparently thought I was so unqualified for the job that my rejection letter required an overnight delivery."
* "One of my third-round interviews started with the following statement: "Same questions as yesterday, but you must respond differently.' "
* "When I interviewed with Microsoft, the interviewer asked me how I would design Bill Gates's bathroom."
* "One guy started counting his money in the middle of our interview."
* Someone telling me I was getting old and needed to figure out a definite career plan A.S.A.P. (I am 30), followed immediately by the next interviewer telling me I was quite young and could take my time finding a career."
* "Being taken to a strip club in Los Angeles."
* "Rubbing my leg against the table leg only to eventually find out it was the female recruiter's leg."
* "The chair I was sitting in broke and I fell down."
* "When asked what the S with a star next to it meant on my transcript, I replied that it meant that I was a superstar. (It actually just indicates that the class I took was mandatory pass/fail.)"
* "One interviewer at a top investment bank asked me how horseback riding was like investment banking."
* "Upon entering the room, one interviewer asked, 'And who the hell are you?' "
* "When I arrived, a car had smashed into the fire hydrant at the front of the building. The front lawn, driveway and street had been torn up by the resulting geyser. I was hired and it turned out the car had belonged to my new boss."
* "Flying down to Houston to interview for a position in Chicago. (I live in Madison, Wis.)"
* "A steel analyst in equity research at an investment bank lamented the industry he was covering. He spoke thus: 'If I was covering technology, I would have a hotter wife, she would be wearing bigger diamonds and I would drive a nicer car. I don't know why anyone would want to do what I do.' "
* "The question, 'Why are we here?' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (95%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ICE CREAM (74%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); ACCOUNTING (66%); 

PERSON: KUNTZ, TOM BILL GATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



416 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
U.S. ShoppersShoulder The Weight of the World

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
EVERYBODY knows that the American consumer has been the high-octane fuel behind the nation's decadelong economic boom. Retail spending, after all, accounts for two-thirds of the output of the United States.
But it is becoming increasingly apparent that American shoppers are also fueling the recoveries just starting to be charted in depressed economies overseas. And this alarms James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer of Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, who believes that a slowdown in consumption here could stop the improving economies elsewhere dead in their tracks. 
 "The American consumer has taken the globe from deep contraction back to flatness to recovery," Mr. Paulsen said. "If he slows down at all, we're going to feel the world weak again."
Evidence of just how dependent the world has become on the American consumer shows up in this country's imports as a percentage of the growth in world output. In 1995, such imports were about 4 percent of the industrial world's gross domestic product. Today the figure is 7.5 percent; fully 1.5 percentage points of that gain has come since the Asian crisis began.
So while the economic turmoil overseas was a nightmare for the rest of the world, it meant a big windfall for Americans as prices of goods and money dropped. And much of that windfall was spent at the mall.
People have been baffled, Mr. Paulsen said, about "why auto sales are off the chart, why housing sales are so strong."
His answer: "We were dropping the monthly prices of those things dramatically, because interest rates kept falling. Deflation drove the unit growth of these things through the roof." The accompanying chart shows the relationship between declining inflation and surging retail sales, excluding autos.
But almost all of this has reversed in recent months. And that, Mr. Paulsen said, poses a threat to American stocks.
While retail sales remain red-hot -- up an impressive 1 percent in May -- they are sure to slow in coming months. That's because the major factors stimulating consumer spending have disappeared.
Interest rates, for example, are no longer falling, which means American homeowners' harvests of cash from refinancing their mortgages are history. Oil prices have risen as well, removing another piece from the prosperity puzzle. Perhaps most important, annual growth in real wages has fallen from about 3 percent early last year to around 1.5 percent.
Unfortunately, if the American consumer snaps his wallet shut, there is nobody out there to take his place in fueling the world's economic growth. Europe is showing only 2 percent growth in G.D.P., and economies in most of Asia and Latin America are either flat or contracting. Moreover, investment by corporations is expected to be static this year.
Add to this mix a move by the Federal Reserve Board at the end of June to increase interest rates, and Mr. Paulsen thinks corporate profits may be hurt and economies around the world strained. "If the world just moves to slower growth but doesn't crunch, it's a huge bull run again," he said. "If it really slows down and gets into a more scary scenario, then the whole stock market gets into trouble."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Power Purchasing"
Lower inflation has helped drive gains in retail sales.
 
The graph compares retail sales (Year-over-year change), with the inflation rate (Year-over-year change) since 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (55%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CONSUMER PRODUCTS INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (55%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFLATION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); TRENDS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN JAMES W PAULSEN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



417 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Furthers Unemployment Fallacy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Greenspan All but Announces That an Interest Rate Rise Is Ahead" (Business Day, June 18): 
 It appears that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, is most concerned that because of low interest rates, too many people have jobs and that wages may increase as labor markets become tighter.
However, the long-term bipartisan agreement to prevent wage inflation by keeping enough people out of work is clearly at odds with the policy to kick everyone off welfare rolls and make them get jobs.
Those people on welfare have known all along that "welfare reform" is a sham and that jobs have never been available for everyone physically able to work, except in wartime.
Policies to increase unemployment and policies to curtail so-called entitlements should be considered together, because they represent Washington at its bipartisan worst.
 
FREDERICK C. THAYER
Baton Rouge, La., June 18, 1999
 
The writer is a professor of public policy at Southern University. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (70%); 

CITY: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (70%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INFLATION (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: THAYER, FREDERICK C ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



418 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Europe, Without America to Lean On

BYLINE: By Tony Judt; Tony Judt is director of the Remarque Institute at New York University.

 BODY:
First we had a "virtual war"; now come the instant lessons. Commentators and politicians have been tumbling over themselves to draw far-reaching conclusions from Kosovo. "We" won a famous victory. Bombing works. Germany is back in the saddle, led by "War Chancellor" Gerhard Schroder. It is a new beginning for NATO. Europe will emerge with a united military posture. The Western alliance will be radically rethought. It is the end of NATO.
Much of this is nonsense. Victory? Bombing may have brought Slobodan Milosevic to the negotiating table, but since NATO had forsworn any attempt to seize his territory by force -- and its leaders were desperate for a quick resolution -- he is still in power. And the Serbian problem is still with us -- ask anyone in Montenegro, Vojvodina or Macedonia. 
 NATO, on the other hand, really is in a predicament: Europeans don't have the military capacity to engage in war, while the Americans lack the will to do so. For most of the lifetime of today's politicians, this hardly mattered; "war" meant defense against a putative Soviet aggression. In this scenario the American nuclear umbrella was both necessary and sufficient. Defense spending in Western Europe fell to historical lows. Membership in NATO was painless and beneficial. The West Germans had no choice but to accept American leadership, the British grew to like the idea, and the French (who rejected American military command but got the benefit of NATO anyway) had a free ride.
Two things have changed. The benefits of the American nuclear umbrella are less obvious without a real and present Soviet threat. And the United States no longer provides leadership. This last point is crucial, and seriously underestimated over here, whereas in Europe today it is the subject of intense discussion. Previous American Presidents, from Harry Truman to George Bush, shared their European counterparts' understanding that the point of NATO, in the words of its first Secretary General, Lord Ismay, is to "keep the Americans in, the Russians out and the Germans down."
But are the Americans still "in"? Watching laser-targeted missiles and bombs land on trains and embassies, hearing President Clinton promise not to engage ground troops and noting his refusal to risk the loss of a single helicopter, Europeans have grown skeptical. The Europeans were humiliated by their own failure to respond to the Bosnian massacres; now the image of the United States has been severely dented by its zero-risk tactics in Kosovo. Bill Clinton and his much derided foreign policy team will pass, but the problem will remain. The fundamental psychological premises of the Western alliance have been shaken, and something must change. But what?
Europeans spend, on average, less than two-thirds as much as the United States on defense (as a proportion of their gross domestic product). This buys a limited supply of weapons and soldiers. In Kosovo, the British, French, Germans and Italians will furnish about 33,000 troops (13,000 from Britain alone), the United States no more than 7,000. What the Europeans lack is big planes, advanced missiles and the capacity to transport and supply their armies speedily and for long periods.
For this to change -- for the Europeans to be free of their dependence on the United States in anything beyond police actions -- two things need to happen. They need to increase defense spending by at least 50 percent and combine their defense industries and military procurement, planning and command structures. And they need to do all of this under the aegis of "Europe," without actually abandoning or eviscerating NATO itself.
But this is unlikely to happen. Europeans have grown accustomed to spending little on defense, and since the end of the cold war they have been promised a "peace dividend," meaning they would now be able to spend even less. The rules of the new Euro game require that member countries continue to cut deficits and contain public spending. Tax increases to pay for military hardware, or a significant diversion of government spending from welfare to defense, are politically unthinkable.
As for transnational cooperation, this, too, has its limits. So far no European state has proved remotely sympathetic to the idea of reorganizing defense industries across boundaries -- too many jobs and too much national pride are at stake. Note, too, that "European" forces are not keeping the peace in Bosnia and Kosovo; British, French, German and Italian soldiers are under a (temporarily) unified command.
And each state has its own motives and interests. Tony Blair has taken an admirably firm stand against war crimes in the Balkans, but his recent moral leadership of Europe is a conscious compensation for Britain's absence from the institutions and forums where European economic policy is now made. It also helps him make his case at home for closer British involvement in European affairs.
"War Chancellor" Schroder has been able to keep Germany in the Balkans only because of the highly charged implications of ethnic cleansing and Germany's obligation to combat it. Future leaders may have a harder time convincing the German people of the case for military engagement.
As for the French, their enthusiasm for a "multipolar" world bespeaks a continuing suspicion of "Anglo-American" policies and leadership; it will not translate into a willingness to merge their resources and identity into a European defense force.
If the West European powers have money to spare, there are better ways to spend it. The last 10 years have been devoted to a self-serving obsession with furthering institutional integration within the European Union. What is needed, now more than ever, is the rapid expansion of the basic institutions of the European Union into Eastern and Southeastern Europe. A democratic Serbia won't happen without the prospect of European Union membership. Macedonia, Romania and the Baltics would be more stable inside Europe than outside it.
Such a strategy of rapid European inclusion would mean transferring eastward some of the money that the Union now pays out to its own prosperous citizens. But that beats spending the same money on better weapons systems.
Meanwhile, NATO is in trouble, yes. But the urgent lesson of Kosovo is the need to replace the protectionist, inward-looking economic union of prosperous Western Europe with a genuine all-European political project. And such a project has one distinct advantage for Europeans and Americans alike: since it doesn't require American leadership, the lack of it right now won't matter.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); GERMANY (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); ROMANIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (70%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC); ROMANIA; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); GERMANY (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); ROMANIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (50%); 

PERSON: JUDT, TONY BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



419 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3044 words

HEADLINE: Today's Bank Of Yesterday
<BY L>By RICHARD KORMAN

DATELINE: LAWRENCEVILLE, N.J.

 BODY:
YOU might call it Russo's revenge.
The Russo in question, Paul J., felt ignored by the $100 billion bank where his family home-improvement business keeps its accounts. Despite a hefty checking balance, he was often asked to produce two forms of identification at the teller window. "Not one person knows my name," he complained. 
Then, last year, Mr. Russo was invited to help start a new bank in this suburb near Princeton, a bank that would be based on friendly service, not nationwide heft. Two local men -- a young banker and an insurance executive -- were looking for investors, and Mr. Russo bought in.
There are hundreds of small-business people across the country who are taking similar stands. Sweeping bank consolidation has left many states, particularly New Jersey, California and Florida, with a landscape of regional bank giants and tiny credit unions, and little in between.
Sensing opportunity in a long economic boom, organizers like those who approached Mr. Russo have sought or won charters for 19 new community banks in New Jersey since 1996. Nationally, there were 216 new bank charters granted in 1998, compared with 53 in 1994; though no one keeps an exact count, bank experts presume that many of these new institutions are community banks.
The rallying cry for a lot of the new ventures is a Howard Beale-like "I'm not going to take this anymore," but banking is no field for amateur enthusiasts with good Rotary Club connections. Chartering a new bank is costly and time-consuming, requiring the mobilization of market and technical expertise and the ability to satisfy demanding regulators.
The hardest part nowadays is raising capital. Small bank stocks are out of favor, some of the last places many people would invest. As a result, asking local merchants and neighbors to open their wallets may not yield enough money, forcing organizers to turn to wealthy, well-connected financial professionals who may be prone to second-guessing a bank president at every bump in the road.
Village Bank, the start-up that attracted Mr. Russo, is being chartered in the name of customer service. But to reward its investors and to survive, some analysts say, it will have to plunge into the currents of deregulated financial services and swim rapidly to assets of $75 million or more.
Even experienced bankers can find the going tough.
Kenneth J. Stephon, 40, a banker who seems eternally buoyant, hatched the idea for Village Bank and helped convince Mr. Russo and others to invest their reputations, as board members, as well as their money. Now, as the bank rides the uncertainties of an initial public stock offering, Mr. Stephon must work against a loudly ticking clock.
There is no way to know how close Village Bank's offering has come to its goal so far -- Securities and Exchange Commission rules prohibit the bank from saying. But after easily attracting $948,000 of seed capital, outfitting two small, well-situated offices and hiring core staff, Village Bank failed to meet a self-imposed eight-week deadline, on March 26, to raise the balance of the $5 million minimum capital required to open.
As the bank's founders reach ever further out into their webs of neighbors, friends and relatives, the offering can seem more like a charitable fund-raiser than a small-cap share placement.
Rents, salaries and other costs, meanwhile, are eating through the seed capital at a rate of more than $50,000 a month. According to the bank's latest filing with the S.E.C., the initial $948,000 will be exhausted by the end of July.
(Dick Wines, a partner in Capital Consultants of Princeton, who is following Village Bank, says that if the organizers run out of cash, they can go to the individual investors for more money or ask some of the people who have already bought shares to designate their investment as seed money.)
Still, Mr. Stephon is chipper. Legally, the bank has until Dec. 7 to complete its offering. Only then, if the necessary $5 million has not been raised, would Village Bank die aborning, with the subscribers to the stock offering getting their money back and the original seed-capital investors eating the losses.
 
Capitalism and Community
To provide the kind of customer service that many people want but big banks sometimes neglect, Village Bank plans to offer low-fee checking, at least at the outset, and ready access to the bank president. Many community banks that have been chartered in the last few years have thrived in just that way, by beating the big banks on price and service.
But according to some bankers, the giants are responding more quickly to competitive pressure. In New Jersey, for example, Summit Bank, one of the state's largest, recently rolled back its minimum balance for free checking from $1,000 to $99. Summit said it simply wanted to provide more competitive products and accelerate deposit growth. "We consider ourselves 73 community banks that form Summit," said Robert G. Cox, the bank's president.
Another giant, First Union of Charlotte, N.C., which acquired a big branch network in New Jersey when it bought First Fidelity in 1996, says it has introduced several programs geared toward small business -- and a menu of ways for customers to invest small deposits or balances.
Some analysts say public disgust with poor service and high fees alone are not enough to spur the creation of a new community bank.
Steven A. Seelig, a researcher with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation who has studied bank start-ups, said: "Our results show it's not just because Nationsbank or another comes in. You have to have enough of a customer base to really make money at it." That, and not mergers, is spawning the new banks, he added.
Not surprisingly, many of New Jersey's new banks are being chartered in its most affluent neighborhoods, like the areas of Mercer County around Princeton where Village Bank hopes to do business.
Mr. Stephon does not see doing well and doing good as mutually exclusive. "There are economic motives in everything, except maybe the Red Cross," he said. "But we're not a group of capitalists who said, 'Where can we best deploy our funds?' We said, 'There's an absolute need for community services.' Economic opportunity is a marvelous byproduct, not the impetus."
Mr. Stephon and Village Bank's chairman, William C. Hart, 65, have been friends for years. Mr. Hart, currently chief executive of Mercer Mutual Insurance, once ran Centennial Savings and Loan in Pennington, N.J., where Mr. Stephon was a part-time management trainee. Mr. Stephon later became chief executive of Cloverbank, a small, old savings and loan association in Pennsauken, 40 miles from Lawrenceville, where Mr. Hart served on the board. Both men cut their ties to Cloverbank last year.
Across the country, 1998 was one of the best years in memory for savings banks, with profits spiking on a steady diet of fees and a healthy 1.01 percent return on assets, according to the F.D.I.C. But Mr. Stephon hungered for a more entrepreneurial banking style than Cloverbank's conservative culture would allow. So for months, he and Mr. Hart chewed over the idea of a new bank.
The first choice they faced was what kind of bank charter to seek. Mercer County was not underserved -- there are 39 bank branches within four miles of Village Bank's headquarters. But most of those are commercial banks or credit unions; locally owned savings and loans have become an endangered species. A savings and loan charter held another attraction: Mr. Stephon knew the regulatory personnel at the Office of Thrift Supervision and other agencies.
So Village Bank is going the savings and loan route and will focus its lending on mortgages and other real estate-backed loans.
But don't be fooled by the apparent narrowness of the savings and loan's mission. Village Bank's entrepreneurial intent is embodied in its corporate form, a holding company called the Village Financial Corporation with the bank as its only operating unit. That structure allows the parent to offer a full range of financial services, or to sell mutual funds and securities through affiliates. Equally important, the directors can sell Village Financial to a nonbanking business, greatly widening the pool of possible acquirers.
 
Deep Pockets Needed
To sign the needed investors and directors, Mr. Stephon and Mr. Hart got busy networking in early 1998. They soon assembled a board, including a local investment adviser, William V. R. Fogler; two of Mr. Fogler's clients, Paul Russo and Jonathan R. Sachs, a gastroenterologist; and George M. Taber, president of a regional magazine, Business News New Jersey.
While that core group was forming, Mr. Hart got in touch with Fred D. Price, a partner at a New York firm of banking industry underwriters and consultants, Sandler, O'Neill & Partners. Mr. Price lives in Cranbury, a 20-minute drive from Lawrenceville; Sandler, O'Neill had done some consulting for Mr. Hart's firm, Mercer Mutual.
After meeting with Mr. Hart and Mr. Stephon, Mr. Price personally put in $200,000, making him Village Bank's biggest investor.
Mr. Price's involvement strikes some bank executives as a danger signal. "I wouldn't want to be C.E.O. with him on board," said Anthony S. Abbate, chief executive of Interchange Bank, a successful community bank in Saddle Brook, N.J. "People put money up, but then they get antsy," he said, referring to investors like Mr. Price. "If you don't leverage up the capital, and guys are sitting there who made investments and are not happy, you will see the C.E.O. turn over two or three times. It's not at all uncommon."
Other community bank executives said an investor like Mr. Price might push Village Bank to engage in sophisticated financial engineering that it may be ill-equipped to handle. Indeed, Mr. Price has been quoted in trade publications explaining the advantages of using derivatives to limit banks' interest rate risk. Such instruments, handled improperly, have been at the heart of some notable financial disasters across the country.
Mr. Price said any worries about his role at Village Bank stemmed from misunderstandings. First, he said, derivatives have no relevance for Village Bank because start-ups rarely have enough assets with interest rate risk to justify hedging with derivatives. (The Office of Thrift Supervision says that only a handful of savings banks use derivatives, and they are all large banks.)
Mr. Price also said he had invested in Village Bank because he believes in community banking, not because he wants to be a backseat driver. "I have no intention to be on the board, and did not make this investment to have any controlling or undue influence," he said; rather, he wanted an investment on which "my kids someday down the road enjoy the return."
Mr. Stephon said he doesn't know Mr. Price well, but is pleased that "one of the best banking minds in the country" has a large vested interest in the success of Village Bank.
"I feel privileged that he is involved," Mr. Stephon added.
 
Some Luck, Some Lack
In the search for suitable premises, Village Bank got lucky. Another bank was pulling out of a 3,952-square-foot branch on Quakerbridge Road, convenient to the Quakerbridge Mall. Village Bank took over the lease at an initial rent of $4,000 a month. A counter with six teller stations was already in place, and Village Bank bought the furniture and vault from the departing tenant for $35,000. Space for a second, limited-hours office was rented next to a retirement housing complex in Pennington, near the homes of several board members.
The time had come to raise the rest of the $5 million minimum capital. The board hired Ryan, Beck & Company to administer the offering, which started last Feb. 3. The bank priced the shares at $10 each with a $1,000 minimum, intending to issue 425,000 to 1.2 million shares, depending on demand. As chief executive, Mr. Stephon will be one of the bigger shareholders if he exercises all of the 10,000 stock options granted under his contract.
In the fall, other new community banks in New Jersey raised capital with relative ease. After 14 organizers kicked in $1.8 million to seed Red Oak Bank in Morristown, new subscribers bought shares worth $9.6 million within 10 weeks. Red Oak's chief executive, Dale G. Potter, had previously piloted to success another community bank in New Jersey, Growth Bank, in Harding Township; it has since been absorbed by Hudson United Bank, a midsize bank in Union City.
Hopewell Valley Community Bank, a close neighbor to Village Bank, failed to meet the preliminary termination date for its public share offering, Oct. 30, but only by a single day. Its total equity capital has since risen to $7.8 million from $5 million.
Village Bank's offering is moving much more slowly.
Instead of holding a large community meeting -- a common shareholder recruiting tactic -- Village Bank chose smaller, roadshow-style meetings and advertised aggressively; it even splurged on an ad in The Wall Street Journal, on the theory that sophisticated investors might not see ads in local papers.
The sales drive drew some undesired attention. When the offering remained incomplete after the self-imposed March 26 deadline passed, local news accounts raised questions whether Mr. Stephon had a high-enough local profile to make the bank fly. Uncomfortably, Federal regulations have prevented Mr. Stephon from saying publicly exactly how well the offering is going.
"Village Bank is getting a lot of press, and I think that's good news and bad news," said Mr. Wines of Capital Consultants of Princeton. The March deadline was too optimistic, but it "got blown out of proportion," he said.
 
Wooing a Small Crowd
Even so, the bank's preoccupation has remained raising capital, in small meetings like one held on April 14. Such meetings, Mr. Stephon said, communicate the intimacy the bank hopes to embody.
As the sun set, about 15 people gathered in the living-room-sized employee cafeteria of the Mercer Mutual Life Insurance building in Pennington. Outside, commuters clogged the two-lane roads that embroider fallow pastures and strip-mall parking lots.
Mr. Hart introduced Mr. Stephon, who made his presentation and introduced each director. They stood like sentries around the room's perimeter, jacket buttons resolutely fastened. During the evening, each offered a personal horror story of what big bad banks do.
Dr. Sachs said his bank had done nothing to help his practice with its annual year-end cash flow crunch. And Mr. Fogler, the investment adviser, was more scalding, saying he "is totally disgusted" with the treatment from his bank -- including taking three months to fix a minor problem with his checking account.
Mr. Taber, the publisher, said the idea of getting personal service from a bank based in Charlotte (a reference to First Union) was a contradiction in terms.
Village Bank, Mr. Stephon pledged, will never lose sight of its customers. "You will be able to reach me 24 hours a day, seven days a week," he said.
Though the attendance was light, spirits were high. Most of the prospects, it turned out, knew someone connected to Village Bank. One was the chairman's sister; another had a daughter about to start work at the bank.
Alfred Christie, a New Jersey doctor, said he had known Bill Hart for more than 30 years. Dr. Christie remembered that his uncle had opened a $100 account for him at the long-departed Trenton Banking Company on May 6, 1931, the day he was born, and he said he planned to subscribe to some Village Bank shares.
Two months after the meeting, though, Dr. Christie hadn't sent in his check. The bank is a great idea, he said, but "I'm worried about whether they are going to get the money." His accountant, he added, had discouraged the investment, saying it was imprudent for a man his age.
His hesitation is symptomatic of the struggle that Village Bank faces in completing its offering before the clock runs out. The longer the offering remains open, the harder it is to sustain an appearance of momentum.
Mr. Russo wonders at investors' reluctance. "If people are willing to put money in an Internet stock with no earnings, then they ought to be willing to invest in Village Bank," he said. "They'll be able to sleep at night."
 
Not for the Faint-Hearted
Does buying shares in a new community bank in your town make investing sense?
The main attraction is the chance to acquire, at close to book value and with no fees, a security that subsequently may sell for a modest multiple of book value.
Of the six new banks that opened their doors in 1997 in New Jersey, one, Community Bank of New Jersey in Freehold, has run ahead of the pack. The bank has pumped up its assets, to $94 million last month from $13 million two years ago, and deposits are growing by $5 million a month. It now trades at 1.7 times book value.
(The average publicly traded bank that opened in 1997 now trades at 1.3 times book value; older small- and mid-cap banks trade at 1.9 times book value, according to Ryan, Beck & Company, a broker and underwriter based in Livingston, N.J.)
Community Bank of New Jersey is the clear leader in its class because it is already generating profits, said Cassandra Toroian, an analyst for Ryan, Beck who follows the stock but has no rating on it. "It's usually a couple of years before they break even," she said.
But like all small-bank stocks, it should be viewed as a thinly traded, and therefore illiquid, microcap. Many start-up banks have no ready market for their shares. Some, like Village Bank, arrange for a broker to be a market maker.
Doug Hughes, a money manager in Hunter, N.Y., who invests in bank stocks, thinks that start-ups are a waste of time when bigger, better-capitalized bank stocks are available at a better value. "I could name 50 I'd rather be in," he said.
Some investors buy small-bank stocks hoping for a premium in the event of a takeover. But while there are several recent examples of big banks' buying small ones and paying an average of three times book value for them, Ms. Toroian said it was not a good idea to count on a buyout. RICHARD KORMAN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Kenneth Stephon, chief executive of Village Bank, has had a hard time luring enough investment dollars to open for business. The main branch, top, is ready and waiting, at the site of a former bank in Lawrenceville, N.J. (Richard Korman)(pg. 8)
 
Charts: "Raring to Go"
Management is ready, the vault is ready, even the A.T.M. is ready. All Village Bank needs is enough new capital from its initial public offering to open its doors in Lawrenceville, N.J. Here are the bank's directors (front to back in the photo) and their stakes.
 
Kenneth J. Stephon
TITLE AT VILLAGE -- President and chief executive
background -- 21 years in local banking.
INVESTMENT -- $51,000 in seed capital; $100,000 in stock offering; options for another $100,000.
 
William C. Hart
TITLE AT VILLAGE -- Chairman
BACKGROUND -- Insurance executive in nearby Pennington, N.J.
INVESTMENT -- $25,000 in seed capital; $25,000 in stock offering.
 
William V.R. Fogler
TITLE AT VILLAGE -- Director
BACKGROUND -- Investment adviser in Lawrenceville.
INVESTMENT -- $30,000 in seed capital; $30,000 in stock offering.
 
Dr. Jonathan R. Sachs
TITLE AT VILLAGE -- Director
BACKGROUND -- Gastroenter-ologist in Princeton, N.J.
INVESTMENT -- $15,000 in seed capital; $20,000 in stock offering.
 
Not pictured: Paul J. Russo
TITLE AT VILLAGE -- Director
BACKGROUND -- Part-owner of Lawrenceville Home Improvement Center.
INVESTMENT -- $50,000 in seed capital; $10,000 in stock offering.
 
George M. Taber
TITLE AT VILLAGE -- Director
BACKGROUND -- President of Business News New Jersey, commentator.
INVESTMENT -- $15,000 in seed capital; $25,000 in stock offering.
(pg. 1)
 
"A Flock of Bank Start-Ups"
Aiming to fill a niche between giant out-of-town or out-of-state banks and tiny credit unions, two dozen new banks have been chartered in New Jersey since the beginning of 1997, part of a nationwide upswing in bank charters.
 
How Some Have Fared
Most new banks are tiny; their stocks rarely trade. The charts show a few whose stocks trade relatively actively. Red Oak Bank (Morristown), Advantage Bank (Branchburg), Community Bank of New Jersey (Freehold)
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; New Jersey Division of Banking)
 
"Taking the Plunge"
The number of new bank charters nationwide has been climbing in recent years. (Source: F.D.I.C.)
 
"Out of Favor"
Stocks of smaller banks have lagged far behind the broader stock market this year. The graph shows the changes in the S&P 500 since December 31,1998
 
*261 bank stocks traded on the Nasdaq national and small-capitalization markets.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VILLAGE BANK (LAWRENCEVILLE, NJ) TODAY'S BANK-EAST (58%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: VILLAGE BANK (LAWRENCEVILLE, NJ) NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); DEREGULATION (75%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); HOME REMODELING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CREDIT UNIONS (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (63%); 

PERSON: KORMAN, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



420 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: The World: The World Takes Notice;
Kashmir Gets Scarier

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: SRINAGAR, Kashmir

 BODY:
HIGH in the forbidding Himalayan foothills north of here, the half-century-old struggle for control of Kashmir is entering a new and unpredictable phase. Islamic fighters have crossed the line that divides the state between zones of Indian and Pakistani control, and the Indian Army is waging a bloody campaign to drive them back. It is the latest battle in a conflict that has taken tens of thousands of lives over the last decade.
In the wake of the Kosovo campaign, awareness is growing in Washington and other capitals that the world pays a high price for waiting too long to address growing crises. The one in Kashmir is among the most combustible, and the fact that both contending nations are armed with nuclear weapons lends it an apocalyptic urgency. It is now drawing more serious attention than at any time since it started. 
 When President Clinton telephoned the Prime Ministers of India and Pakistan last week to urge them to resolve this crisis, he was stepping gingerly, and on territory where few outsiders have dared to tread at all. His message was vague and tentative, but in suggesting that Pakistan use its influence to pull the insurgents out of Indian territory, he was at least signaling the world's growing fear that this obscure conflict could spiral out of control.
"We're facing a small war, but it can escalate," one of Kashmir's wise men, Sufi Ghulan Mohammed, editor of the Urdu-language Srinagar Times, said last week. "Escalation means devastation. It does not have to be planned. Anything can happen at any time."
The Kashmir conflict, overlaid with religious passion as well as chauvinistic competition, is perhaps even more complex than those that have shaken the Balkans. Kashmir is about 75 percent Muslim, but when India and Pakistan were created in 1947, the maharajah, a Hindu, chose to lead it into Hindu-dominated India rather than Islamic Pakistan. He felt that the mixed society he ruled would fare better in an avowedly secular state than one devoted to a single religion.
Pakistan has never accepted Kashmir's accession to India, and has waged two wars to seize it. The last one, in 1971, ended with a cease-fire that left two-thirds of the state in India and the rest in Pakistan.
One reason the conflict is so difficult to solve is that in different ways, Kashmir is central to the national ideals of both India and Pakistan. Indian leaders fear that losing Kashmir would set off a wave of separatist movements in other Indian states, and implicitly accept the failure of the premise on which India is built: that it can embrace peoples of many different religions.
Pakistan, in contrast, was built on the idea that all Muslims on the sub-continent should live in their own state. Allowing all or part of Kashmir to remain under Indian rule contradicts that.
Some powerful Pakistanis believe that Kashmir represents the unfinished agenda of the 1947 partition. Others see war here as a way to punish India for its support of Pakistani rebels who succeeded in separating Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971. But the real fire behind the current conflict is the desire of Islamic militants to wrest control of what they consider a Muslim land from the control of infidels. Many of them fought in Afghanistan; some are loyal to the anti-Western Muslim fundamentalist Osama bin Laden.
Over the years, Pakistan has sought to internationalize the issue by bringing it before the United Nations and other bodies. India opposes all such efforts, and insists that the question be resolved only by the two nations. But President Clinton's telephone calls last week, along with expected discussions of the problem at this weekend's meeting of leaders of the biggest industrialized countries in Germany, suggest that India may now have to accept the world's growing concern.
In the wake of the holocaust in Rwanda and successive catastrophes in the former Yugoslavia, many voices are being raised in favor of intervening before future crises around the globe reach the point of explosion. There is still no consensus on how, when or where to act, and much fear about the consequences of aggressive intervention. But few international summits are likely to pass now without discussion of the possibility of assertive action in places like Kashmir.
Kashmir is a good place to start because it reflects not only how dangerous obscure wars can become, but also how difficult it is to resolve them. Many people in the Indian-held section are highly suspicious of Pakistan, which is in even worse social, economic and political shape than India and where religious fundamentalism is on the rise. But they have no love for the Indian security forces, which human rights groups say regularly ransack and burn villages, torture prisoners and assassinate suspected militants.
OVER the years, some Indian leaders have suggested that the solution lies in giving the province what Prime Minister Narasimha Rao in 1995 called "anything short of independence" and what Prime Minister Deve Gowda a year later called "maximum autonomy." That, however, is anathema to much of the Indian establishment, which fears a precedent for splintering India itself.
Every proposed solution, in fact, is fraught with danger. To reach a lasting peace, all three sides would have to make historic compromises involving their basic principles.
In addition to the West, China, which borders Kashmir and faces a rising Islamic movement in its own western provinces, is increasingly worried and increasingly ready to apply pressure for a solution. But if outside powers are to break this deadlock, they need strong partners in both India and Pakistan, leaders who can break with the past and persuade their peoples to do so too. No such leaders are on the horizon.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Indian troops prepare to attack. (Agence France-Presse); On Kashmir's Pakistani side, civilians near the battle line take refuge in a rock bunker during Indian shelling. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (97%); INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (97%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (94%); HIMALAYAS (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; KASHMIR AND JAMMU; PAKISTAN; ASIA (97%); INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KASHMIR (97%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (94%); HIMALAYAS (73%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); ARMIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); CHURCH & STATE (63%); NEWS BRIEFS (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (55%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



421 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Latin America's Armies Are Down But Not Out

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO

 BODY:
THE generals who once made and deposed presidents are now so marginal a factor in Brazil's daily life that a milestone went almost unremarked this month. When President Fernando Henrique Cardoso signed a bill merging the Army, Air Force and Navy ministries into a single Ministry of Defense headed by a retired senator, Brazil became the last member of Mercosur, the South American customs union composed of former military dictatorships, to place its armed forces under full formal civilian control.
Though the rest of the world still envisions the likes of Pinochet, Peron, Trujillo, Somoza, and Torrijos when it thinks of Latin America, these are trying times for soldiers throughout the region. Government spending is declining even faster than the prestige of a military career. In virtually every country the armed forces confront what Armando Borrero, a Colombian scholar of the military, calls "an existential problem: What is their role now that they are no longer the dominant force in their societies?" 
 For the whole region, getting soldiers to go back to their barracks has brought indisputable political and economic benefits. When generals were in charge in Argentina and Brazil two decades ago, for instance, troops were deployed on their border, and both were pursuing costly nuclear programs.
But after democratic civilian rule was restored in the mid-1980's, the countries buried their historic grievances and married their fortunes in Mercosur. Trade and other forms of contact have exploded. This month, Mr. Cardoso and Argentina's President, Carlos Menem, even decided to seek a common currency.
Similarly, Argentina and Chile have settled all but one of 23 border disputes, and civilian presidents in Peru and Ecuador just recently laid to rest a boundary conflict that caused several wars in the past 50 years. Perhaps that explains why the Clinton Administration, which lifted longstanding restrictions on United States arms sales to Latin America in 1997, has found so few takers for the wares it wants to sell.
"The military leadership does not want to go back to the old system," said Richard Millett, the author of "Beyond Praetorianism: The Latin American Military at the End of the 20th Century." "They see less to gain from confrontation than in cooperation against the real enemy, like transnational crime groups. They know that the strength of your neighbor is not a menace; it's his weakness that is dangerous."
In March, in fact, the armed forces of Ecuador and Paraguay resisted the temptation to intervene in a crisis. They know that a coup would lead to ostracism, loss of trade benefits and elimination from prestigious and profitable United Nations peacekeeping missions. Mr. Cardoso even warned Paraguay's soldiers that Mercosur is a club for democracies only and that a coup would lead to expulsion.
While the Latin American military may be out, it is not necessarily down. "You do not yet really have true civilian control of the military," Dr. Millett said. "What you have is enhanced civilian influence and reduced military autonomy. The civilian defense ministers in a lot of these countries don't order the generals around, they consult and negotiate with them."
One big question for any civilian government is what to do to keep the idled troops out of mischief. Washington's answer, regarded as a recipe for disaster by every government in the region, has been to press the armies to enlist in the war against drugs.
"Americans tend to think that Latin America spends so much on the military that it might as well get something useful out of them," said Alfred Stepan, author of several books on the Latin American military. "But that is a dangerous way of looking at things. If the military get involved in the anti-drug wars, not only are they not prepared for it, but doing so has a corrupting impact and may contribute to an expansion of their role."
The Central American military offers a different but no less disturbing model. With no more guerrillas left to battle -- or slaughter -- they have been transformed into economic conglomerates that threaten to choke off competition from private enterprise. In a study titled "Soldiers as Businessmen," Arnoldo Brenes and Kevin Casas have documented how Central America's armed forces have taken over banks, hotels, funeral homes, radio stations, advertising agencies, supermarkets and stores through their pension funds.
I N general and at a theoretical level, many people are concerned by the fact that the military, which already has the power of arms, may also try to obtain uncontrolled economic power," they write in the book, published last year in Costa Rica by the Arias Foundation for Peace and Human Progress. When the profit motive replaces national defense as the army's mission, the pair warn, "the very reason for the existence of the armed forces is distorted."
Their patron Oscar Arias, a former president of Costa Rica who won the 1987 Nobel Peace Prize, argues that the best way to avoid such problems is to follow his country's example and abolish the armed forces altogether. "What we need in our countries is a good police force with a civilian mentality and some cheap, light arms, not an army that needs to maintain its power with sophisticated weapons," he says. The only other countries to follow that recipe have had second thoughts. Panama is unable to fend off Colombian guerrillas who regularly cross into its territory, and Haiti finds its sovereignty ignored by drug traffickers.
Then there is Venezuela, where the rise of Hugo Chavez, a cashiered colonel who led an unsuccessful coup attempt in 1992 and was elected president last December, has meant a more prominent role for the military. But that country, Mr. Arias noted, was spared the last cycle of military rule and abuses, which makes it a special case.
"After the suffering that people in the rest of Latin America have endured, nobody wants the return of the military," he said. "People are not going to forget what the military did to repress and oppress. They know that the litmus test of democracy is the subordination of military power to civilian authority and that is what civil society demands."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Military abuses have traumatized Guatemala, where a mass was held last year for victims of a 1982 massacre. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (96%); BRAZIL (95%); ARGENTINA (93%); PARAGUAY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); PERU (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (78%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (83%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (83%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; LATIN AMERICA (96%); BRAZIL (95%); ARGENTINA (93%); PARAGUAY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); PERU (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CHILE (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (78%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); COUPS (89%); ARMS TRADE (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AIR FORCES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PEACEKEEPING (71%); CURRENCIES (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



422 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Greenspan on Inflation: Wait, Don't Wait. Go Figure.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN, the Federal Reserve chairman, strongly hinted last week that the central bank will raise interest rates later this month to prevent the galloping economy from setting off inflation -- even though, he conceded, inflation remains inconsequential. "Pre-emptive action can obviate the need of more drastic actions at a later date," he told Congress.
Huh? 
 Is this the same Alan Greenspan who has steered unemployment rates to their lowest levels in 30 years precisely because he was willing to let the economic party go on? Now he says growth, averaging 4 percent a year, is on an "unsustainable trend," even though increases in hourly wages are falling and inflation last month was zero.
Has Mr. Greenspan reversed course, discarding his brilliantly executed regime of watchful waiting in favor of pre-emptive strikes against nonexistent inflation?
Some students of the Fed say Mr. Greenspan has been more a pragmatic opportunist than a watchful waiter, taking clever advantage of special circumstances like falling oil prices and spikes in productivity. Others say he has been more lucky than good.
Lurking beneath this debate is a more important one about how the economy works and how central bankers should control it.
Conventional economic wisdom, circa 1990, came in three parts. First, there was thought to be a minimum long-term unemployment rate, estimated to lie between 6 and 6.5 percent. If the Fed would try to push unemployment any lower, the theory went, it would send wages, then prices, spiraling upward. Second, inflation, once started, tended to accelerate out of control. Breaking inflation would require the Fed to raise interest rates so much that recession would follow. Third, it was thought that Fed policies to break inflation would need a year or more to take hold. Conventional wisdom said, then, that the Fed should strike pre-emptively against inflation.
But something weird and wonderful happened on Mr. Greenspan's watch. For reasons nobody really understands, unemployment fell steadily from above 7 percent in 1992 to 4.2 percent today. Yet inflation stayed quiet. Something was wrong with the Fed's models.
Some economists, like Prof. Frederic Mishkin of Columbia University, chalk up Mr. Greenspan's success to subtle pragmatism. In 1992 and 1993, Mr. Mishkin cites as an example, banks were in poor financial health, so Mr. Greenspan kept interest rates low; that way, banks wouldn't have to pay as much to depositors. After the banks recovered, he raised rates in 1994 to keep the economy from overheating. Prof. Benjamin Friedman of Harvard provides another example. In 1998, the Fed reduced rates to keep the economy from slowing in response to the financial crisis spreading from Asia. Now, Mr. Greenspan indicated during his testimony last week, the Asian crisis has dissolved and some of the rate cuts may no longer be needed.
Joseph Stiglitz, the chief economist at the World Bank and former head of the Council of Economic Advisors under President Clinton, takes a dimmer view of the Greenspan record, suggesting that the post-1993 recovery happened despite errors Mr. Greenspan made. Mr. Stiglitz says the Fed misjudged the favorable economic impact of the budget plan that Congress passed in 1993 to trim the deficit. It therefore sat on the sidelines as the economy roared ahead, pulling the unemployment down to levels the Fed had thought dangerous. If Mr. Greenspan had correctly forecast the impact of the budget plan, Mr. Stiglitz argues, he would have raised interest rates to fight inflation -- and the country would have lost a roaring recovery that has brought jobs to millions of low-paid workers.
BUT whether Mr. Greenspan achieved spectacular economic results by accident or mistake, Mr. Friedman gives him credit for letting unemployment fall to levels the Fed considered unsafe -- thereby discovering the economy could do a lot better than the Fed had thought possible. Mr. Stiglitz draws some other lessons. Research by the Council of Economic Advisers, he says, refutes most of the conventional wisdom. Inflation is not the scourge it was only recently thought to be. Professor James K. Galbraith of the University of Texas agrees. "Research does not show that, once started, inflation automatically spirals upward," he said. "Nor is there evidence that reversing modest increases in inflation is all that costly."
By this line of argument, there's no harm in waiting to attack inflation until it actually appears. And waiting has the advantage of letting the Fed learn how fast the economy can grow. So, it might seem, the debate comes down to a dispute between economists who think it is important to pre-empt inflation and those who think fighting inflation can wait. It's not quite that simple. This is, after all, the Delphic science of economics.
Listen to Professor Friedman. He agrees that the Fed can reverse modest inflation with only modest recession as a result. In this, he sounds like Mr. Stiglitz. But he also wants the Fed to raise interest rates next week. That sounds like the strategy preferred by Mr. Greenspan. Professor Friedman has an explanation: "I called for rate hikes five years ago when I thought the economy was growing too fast. And I was wrong. I called for rate hikes two years ago. Again, I was wrong. But labor markets are tighter now than they were five years ago or two years ago, and our economy is growing even faster. The Fed cannot wait around for mistakes to happen when it thinks they are in the works."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left to right, Alan Greenspan. (Photographs by Associated Press and Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TRENDS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



423 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Grade Inflation;
New Math: No One Is Below Average

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS 

 BODY:
IN Lake Wobegon, Garrison Keillor's mythical Minnesota community, the women are strong, the men are good looking and the children are all above average. But who knew that those children were pawns of standardized testing?
Twelve years ago, a country doctor in West Virginia, John J. Cannell, was treating teen-age patients with self-esteem problems. Although their school test scores showed them performing above average, they were depressed about not doing well in class. When tested on different test, by independent psychologists, the children scored below average. 
 Enlisting his staff as detectives, Dr. Cannell surveyed school districts across the country and found that most of them reported their students scoring above the national average on standardized tests -- something that any high-school math student would dismiss as statistically impossible.
Dr. Cannell's discovery, nicknamed the Lake Wobegon effect, set off a furor over standardized testing as researchers confirmed what he had discovered. Now an increasing number of states are adopting high-stakes testing as a condition of high school graduation and to reward or punish schools. Experts warn that the incentive to massage test results is great, and that parents and children should beware of the recurrence of Lake Wobegon effect.
"It may be forgotten, but it is not gone," said Robert L. Linn, a professor of education at the University of Colorado in Boulder, who investigated Dr. Cannell's original findings.
There are many ways for scores to be artificially inflated, from companies marketing old tests to outright cheating. There have even been treatises on the politics of testing; how changing tests can lower scores when mayors are elected or school superintendents are appointed and raise them over the next few years so those in charge can take the credit.
Take New York City, the nation's biggest school district.
In 1997, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani campaigned for re-election touting a rise in reading scores of three percentage points, even as his opponent, Ruth W. Messinger, scoffed that such a gain was hardly cause to, as her press secretary put it, break out the champagne. The Mayor was celebrating results showing the school system, with its high concentration of poor children and immigrants, could produce results comparable to the national average.
That blissful picture was shattered recently when the Board of Education announced the results of new tests, administered in April. Last year, 49.6 percent of the city's elementary and middle school students could read as well as the typical American student. (By definition, 50 percent of all children should be reading better than the typical student, and 50 percent worse.) This year, the percentage of children reading at this level dropped suddenly, to 44.6. Math scores dropped 10 points, from well above the typical level to a shade below.
"Let me guess," said Walter M. Haney, a professor and senior research associate in the Center for the Study of Testing at Boston College. "They changed the test."
Well, yes, they did.
New York City changed from one major battery of standardized tests, the California Achievement Test, to another, the Comprehensive Tests of Basic Skills. The city also updated its scoring, comparing schoolchildren to a national sample who took the test in 1996, instead of 1991. The combination of new material and a higher standard depressed the scores.
Still, the Board of Education argued that scores had risen one percentage point in reading, not dropped, using a method called equating -- a statistical calculation designed compare old and new tests.
MOST statisticians, though, say equating is deeply flawed and valid in only the most narrow circumstances. In New York City's case, the test publisher, CTB/McGraw-Hill, refused to endorse the equating done by the city's Board of Education.
A national testing program, which President Clinton proposed in his 1997 State of the Union message, would impose consistent standards and dampen the Lake Wobegon effect. But many states have balked, saying that a universal test would intrude on the tradition of permitting school districts to set their own policy and curriculum. As a compromise, Congress asked the National Academy of Sciences to study whether the wide array of state and commercial tests could be equated to one another -- or to the National Assessment of Education Progress, which is the closest thing to a nationwide test.
"Our conclusion was that it is really not feasible to develop a common scale for those tests," said Michael J. Feuer, director of the board on testing and assessment of the National Academy of Sciences.
Some equations are simple, Dr. Feuer said. Visiting a friend in Germany, you may learn that the temperature there is 30 degrees Centigrade and easily convert it to Fahrenheit. But what if you wanted to convert temperature to rainfall? Reading, like the weather, is not measured by only one factor. That is the equating dilemma.
As for New York City, Daniel M. Koretz, a senior social scientist at Rand Education, a research group in Washington, predicts that the latest results will soon be a distant memory. Test scores will begin their inevitable rise again, he says, driven by the growing familiarity of teachers with the test and an outdated standard of grading.
Dr. Cannell is now a forensic psychiatrist living in Los Osos, Calif.
"It's a real time-consuming task," he said last week of his crusade to end the manipulation of test scores, "and one that brings me enemies, not friends. Politicians, test publishers, schools, they just have too much to gain by having test scores that are going up every year."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: As tests become critical in awarding diplomas or punishing schools, some children suffer when results say they are above average. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (54%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); FAMILY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



424 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: The World: Where Serbia Fits;
Rebuilding Is Hard Without the Keystone

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE 

 BODY:
AS the fighting raged in Kosovo, Bill Clinton, Tony Blair and other leaders cast the latest Balkan battle as a moral imperative on the order of fighting Nazism. Much less forcefully stated was another goal: creating a Europe whole and free. Then Mr. Clinton, in his speech marking the end of bombing, invited Serbia to join what he termed "this historic journey to a peaceful, democratic and united Europe." But he insisted Serbia would get nothing but the most basic humanitarian aid unless its leader, Slobodan Milosevic, goes.
So NATO's military might has proved, in the end, able to realize one alliance goal: the return of the Kosovo Albanians forced out by Serbian terror and the sheer violence that followed the alliance's decision to bomb. But it left its other goal -- the rebuilding of the Balkans -- very much open to question. In large part, that is because, barring the sudden disappearance of Mr. Milosevic, the West is proposing to rebuild the area without rebuilding Serbia, the country at the Balkans' heart. 
 Last week, as NATO's troops took control of Kosovo, they were finding more evidence of the kind of atrocities widely associated with Serbian security forces. Those horrors had already earned Mr. Milosevic and some of his closest cohorts indictments from the international war crimes tribunal. Confirmation of the murder and brutality described by Kosovo's fleeing Albanians seems certain to isolate Serbia even further.
The moral satisfaction of doing no business with Mr. Milosevic may wind up conflicting with the political and economic logic of finally bringing the Balkans fully into the new Europe, a costly and long-term enterprise.
The problem is that Europe does not need the Balkans to prosper, but cannot truly be at peace unless the Balkan states prosper too. For a century, these lands, haphazardly formed from the collapse of the Hapsburg and Ottoman Empires, have been of interest to the rest of Europe only when fresh imperial ambitions made this expedient.
Now, the builders of the new Europe -- the Europe of a single currency and trading bloc, of a common security and foreign policy -- seem to have concluded that this Europe has no chance without finally quieting the Balkans.
For now, that goal must be achieved through tens of thousands of peacekeepers and aid workers, who have already created a virtual protectorate in Bosnia, dependent on foreign money and might for its existence. If a less clinging child is to be born in Kosovo, and the tens of thousands of NATO soldiers pouring in there are ever to leave, the world will have to help its people build a functioning state, one where Serbs and Albanians can trust each other with their lives. That would be more difficult with a pauperized, resentful Serbia next door.
In the Balkans, the larger task is now to close the yawning territorial gap between the north European and Greek halves of the European Union, and between most NATO members and the Greeks and Turks. The paths for commerce and tourism along the Danube, between northern and southeastern Europe, from the Black Sea to the Adriatic would be more open and secure.
Apparently, none of this was of great concern when Western Europe failed to end the war in Bosnia in the early 1990's, or when the Clinton Administration later passed up the chance to expand NATO swiftly into the post-Communist Balkans by rejecting Romania in the first wave of NATO enlargement. But now the continuing bloodshed, having drawn NATO into a major military role in the region, seems to have convinced the West to try to close the gap.
That cannot be done without the 10 million Serbs, who are still the most numerous people in the former Yugoslavia, outnumbering all but the Greeks and Romanians on the Balkan peninsula. Geographically, Serbia is at the heart of this region -- its roads, railways and rivers indispensable to any commerce or communication that might finally wear down the hatreds and rivalries that have gnawed at these lands this century.
Serbia is to the Balkans what Germany is to Europe: a country and culture too big to ignore. After World War I, Europe and America considered Germany to have been the main cause of that conflict, and punished Germany by imposing impossible reparations and effectively isolating it from the rest of Europe. The policy was perhaps morally satisfying, even just. One of its unintended results was the rise of Adolf Hitler.
IN the Balkans, leaving Serbian hatreds and the traumas of the past 12 years of Mr. Milosevic's rule to fester could well turn many Serbs even more against the outside world. Mr. Clinton has called on the Serbs to remove Mr. Milosevic but there is no assurance that they will, any more than Iraqis have followed the urgings of Mr. Clinton and his predecessor, George Bush, to rid themselves of Saddam Hussein. And for as long as he remains in power, Mr. Milosevic and his media would still paint Serbs as victims of foreigners and the other peoples of the old Yugoslavia.
The brutal killers who have served the Serbian leader would have little compunction about acting as arms procurers or mobile guerrillas to anyone willing to pay (Iraq is among Serbia's closer allies). Politically, Mr. Milosevic could be driven even further into the arms of the only president who visited him during the Kosovo war, the Stalinist leader of Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko.
With such a state at its heart, the Balkan region would have little hope of achieving stability or peace. And the European Union, which will pay most of the bill for rebuilding the Balkans, might well find itself wasting any money it throws at the struggling states of Bulgaria, Romania, Albania and Macedonia.
Thus, while declaring that it is up to the Serbs to topple Mr. Milosevic before they get any help, the Clinton Administration does seem to be working quietly toward the Serbian leader's ouster. Robert Gelbard, one of Mr. Clinton's envoys to the Balkans, has been meeting with Serbian opposition leaders in Montenegro, and the President has reportedly approved a covert action program to destabilize Mr. Milosevic's Government.
The retreat forced upon Serbia by the allied bombing may inspire more Serbs to oppose Mr. Milosevic's continued rule. Back in the winter of 1996-97, they staged highly disciplined but ultimately unsuccessful protests against Mr. Milosevic. Last week, as NATO peacekeepers poured into Kosovo, the Serbian Orthodox Church called for him to be replaced.
Zoran Djindjic, a Serbian opposition leader who fled to neighboring Montenegro during the Kosovo war after Belgrade accused him of being a traitor, was encouraging Westerners last week to work with provincial opposition leaders; many of these are mayors of some of the most heavily bombed cities in Serbia, such as Nis, Cacak, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. "There are regions and cities in Serbia that share the same views that I do and it wouldn't be suitable or just if these people pay the price of the isolationist policy of Mr. Milosevic, which will leave all of us isolated together," Mr. Djindjic said.
A leader as resilient as Mr. Milosevic is unlikely to go quietly, though, and a danger of trying to topple him from a distance is that any failure could reinforce East European doubts about the West's resolve. The Hungarians, Czechs and Poles bitterly recall how little NATO (which they have finally joined themselves) did for them when their own people tried to throw off Soviet power in 1956, 1968 or 1981. For the Western message to have any genuine attraction for the Serbs, they will have to see that this time the West is serious, realistic and yet imaginative.
In Kosovo, for instance, the Serbs are watching to see if the West can guide Albanians to build a state, and steer them away from their own version of the Greater Serbian nationalism that has proved so disastrous for the Serbs, and is now ebbing in Serbia.
F OR the past 120 years, the great powers, or the international community as it's now called, have intervened in this region to further their strategic aims and inflicted enormous damage on the people of the Balkans," said Misha Glenny, a British author who has written extensively about the Balkans. "For the first time in 120 years the great powers now have an opportunity to make good the destruction for which they bear considerable responsibility. If they fail to address the pressing economic and social needs of the region, then the Balkans will again be a theater of war."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rebuilding Serbia would require repairing bridges, like this one on the river Lim near Bistrica, that were bombed by NATO. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); ALBANIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); ALBANIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); WAR CRIMES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INDICTMENTS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); CURRENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: SMALE, ALISON; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); TONY BLAIR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



425 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Grand Canyon Blazing Trail With Light Rail Line

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: GRAND CANYON, Ariz., June 19

 BODY:
Mass tourism to the Grand Canyon started in 1901 with the construction of a Santa Fe Railroad spur to the south rim. Now, at the century's twilight, the canyon is returning to its mass-transit roots, breaking ground recently for the first light rail in a national park.
Sandwiched in the decades between was the National Park Service's love affair with the automobile -- scenic drives, drive-through overlooks, acres of parking, and, outside the south entrance, the kind of development symbolized by a two-story statue of Fred Flintstone calling out "Yabba-dabba-doo" to motorists looking for a campground. 
 While work starts this summer on the $100 million light rail system, which is intended to cut vehicle traffic by 80 percent, Grand Canyon National Park is innovating on a different front: refurbishing its tacky commercial gateway.
In a rare collaboration between developers and environmentalists, nine environmental groups have endorsed a $330 million plan to build a gateway to the park that would include 1,220 hotel rooms and 250,000 square feet of commercial space. In July, the Forest Service is expected to approve a land swap that would allow the developer, Canyon Forest Village, to exchange 2,200 acres of private land scattered around the Kaibab National Forest for 272 acres next to the terminus of the light rail line. There, trains will leave every seven minutes for the south rim, 8.5 miles away.
"We have seen what the marketplace has done around the Grand Canyon -- junk, strip malls, sprawl -- we are not interested in seeing any more of that," said Brad Ack, program director of the Grand Canyon Trust, a regional environmental group. Noting that during five years of negotiations, environmentalists and Indian tribes have won major changes in the project, he said, "It's a pretty interesting approach to environmentalism. Instead of saying no, and losing, we say yes and win."
Expected to draw nearly 5 million people this year, the Grand Canyon is one of the nation's most visited parks. The turn to mass transit here presages a larger shift in how Americans will visit their most popular parks in the 21st century, park officials predict. Over the last 30 years, the number of visitors to American national parks has nearly doubled, hitting 287 million last year.
"At the big parks, our goal is not to limit people, but to limit their cars," Jackie Lowey, a deputy director of the Park Service, said recently from Maine, where she was preparing the June 21 inauguration of free shuttle-bus service from Bar Harbor to sections of Acadia National Park.
In southern Utah, Zion National Park is buying a fleet of buses that run on clean-burning fuels. Next spring, park officials plan to close Zion Canyon to cars, shuttling visitors in and out by bus.
In Alaska, at Denali National Park and Preserve, almost all motorized access is by van or bus. In Wyoming, at Yellowstone National Park, and in California, at Yosemite National Park, officials are studying ways of using buses to reduce traffic. In announcing the Yosemite study last December, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt said, "At times, the valley reminds you very much of being in Times Square in midsummer."
Already, about 40 of the nation's busiest parks, including the Grand Canyon, have some form of mass-transit system. Here, a steam railroad continues to take tourists to the canyon and shuttle buses transport them down West Rim Drive.
Visitors should "have a park experience, not a parking experience," Robert Arnberger, the Grand Canyon's superintendent, said at the April 23 groundbreaking for the hub of the new light rail system.
Gazing down into the mile-deep depths of what some Indians call the House Made of Dawn at times inspires mystical feelings. But a one-hour search in 100-degree heat for a parking spot can inspire fist fights. On a busy summer day, 6,000 vehicles dispute 2,400 parking space in the park's south side, the destination for 90 percent of the park's visitors. The roads and parking lots were built in the 1960's, when the park had about one million visitors a year.
Rather than building six-lane freeways and multistory parking garages, park officials have opted for a parking lot for 3,500 vehicles around the transit center at the park's southern entrance.
"It's going to take time for people to embrace this new way of seeing national parks," said Bradley Traver, the park's chief planner.
At the rim's edge, where tour bus drivers now idle engines to keep air-conditioning running, a maximum of 4,200 people an hour will arrive by train, then shift to bicycle and pedestrian trails or to buses powered by electricity or natural gas.
"If we run diesel-belching monsters for buses, we are part of the problem," Mr. Traver said. Air pollution has cut visibility at the canyon to an average of 110 miles, from 140 miles at the start of the century.
In another effort to reduce the mark of man, Interior Department officials support the Canyon Forest Village development, which would be built 8 miles from the canyon in the Kaibab National Forest.
Under this plan, the Parks Service would demolish substandard worker housing in the park and build up to 500 housing units in the new development. Thomas A. De Paolo, the developer, believes that the parks high school and medical center can also be moved into the development.
With a host of new hotel rooms at the park's edge, the Park Service will demolish two boxy, 1960's lodges on the south rim.
Environmental groups like the proposal because it calls for importing water by train and pipeline from a section of the Colorado River on the Arizona-California line. Hotels in the gateway town of Tusayan now pump well water from an underground aquifer, which environmentalists argue robs water that is vital to the canyon's delicate ecology.
"Any project that relies on groundwater pumping is unacceptable," said Dave Simon of Albuquerque, regional director of one watchdog group, the National Parks and Conservation Association. "We are going to have one master-plan development in one area that is already developed, instead of three or four developments that will smear the problem over a big area," he said.
Three Indian tribes of the Colorado Plateau have endorsed the Canyon Forest plan, largely because the developers promise them jobs, market space for their wares and a museum that gives weight to Native American views of the Grand Canyon. Although tourism injects nearly $1 billion a year into the canyon area, the surrounding county, Coconino, ranks among the 10 poorest in the nation.
Mr. Ack, one of the environmentalists, said from Flagstaff, "For the first time, the tribes have been asked to be part of the economic engine of the Grand Canyon, other than selling trinkets by the roadside."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Motorists hoping to catch sunset at Grand Canyon National Park are often forced to park along the side of the road after cars fill a parking lot at Yavaipai Point on the south rim. The National Park Service has a plan to cut traffic congestion in the park, which 5 million tourists are expected to visit this year. (Photographs by Jeff Topping for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOREST SERVICE; CANYON FOREST VILLAGE (CO) NATIONAL PARK CONCESSIONS INC (92%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (83%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOREST SERVICE; CANYON FOREST VILLAGE (CO) NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (83%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND CANYON NATIONAL PARK; UNITED STATES (92%); MAINE, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES; RAILROADS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; HOTELS AND MOTELS NATIONAL PARKS (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); APPROVALS (66%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (62%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



426 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Washington's Teen-Ager Curfew to Start Soon

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19

 BODY:
With school out for the summer, teen-agers nationwide can look forward to two months of freedom and carefree summer nights. But not here in Washington.
A Federal Appeals court ruled on Friday that teen-agers do not have an unrestricted right to roam the streets late at night and that a youth curfew is constitutional. The law, an effort to reduce crime, bars those under 17 from being in a public place unaccompanied by a parent or guardian between 11 P.M. and 6 A.M. Monday through Thursday, and midnight to 6 A.M. Friday to Sunday. 
 The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the Juvenile Curfew Act of 1995 does not infringe on the rights of children or the rights of parents to raise their children.
The appeals court's ruling lifts an injunction that has prevented Washington police from enforcing the law since 1996. Supporters of the curfew said enforcement was likely to begin soon.
Breaking the curfew could result in 25 hours of community service for young offenders. Parents could be ordered to pay fines up to $500 for allowing children to disobey the curfew. There are eight exceptions to the law, including errands sanctioned by parents or guardians, emergencies and certain kinds of employment.
Judge Lawrence H. Silberman wrote the opinion that was joined at least in part by eight others on the 11-member court. It found that although young people are generally afforded the same constitutional guarantees as adults, the state must account for their "unique vulnerability and immaturity."
"I feel ecstatic, vindicated and pleased," said Harold Brazil, a Democrat on the District Council, who sponsored the original law four years ago. "We have given police another tool to fight crime and protect youngsters. It is very timely in the wake of all this youth violence."
Other council members, however, did not share Mr. Brazil's enthusiasm. "I am a little bit disappointed," said Phil Mendelson, another Democrat on the Council. "As a government, we have to be circumspect about laws that curtail freedom. If we want to cut crime we need to deal more with the problems associated with crime, not people being out of their homes."
Professor Jeffrey R. Henig of George Washington University, who specializes in urban policy and directs the university's Washington Area Studies Center, says that the success of the law lies in the enforcement. "If the police choose to use it as a tool, it could have some positive effects," Professor Henig said. "But having a law on the books with spotty and erratic enforcement could be worse than nothing at all."
The American Civil Liberties Union is critical of the law, viewing it as an infringement of free movement. In addition, the A.C.L.U. contends that the law intrudes on parents' rights to raise their children as they see fit.
"As long as people are not acting illegally and irresponsibly and they have their parents' permission, then they should be allowed to move freely," said a former A.C.L.U. president, Robert S. Plotkin. "The curfew presumes that all parents are making bad decisions and bad choices as a blanket rule." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (77%); DISTRICT COUNCIL (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (77%); DISTRICT COUNCIL (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; CURFEWS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS CURFEW (93%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (91%); ADOLESCENTS (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); VERDICTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (77%); INJUNCTIONS (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CRIME PREVENTION (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PARENTING (73%); JUVENILE CRIME (71%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: JEFFREY R HENIG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



427 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL MEMO;
With Words, Gore And Bush Stake Out The Middle Ground

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush, declaring their candidacies for President, sound as though they are proclaiming the primary campaign over, the general election begun and the battleground designated as the moderate middle, with ideological extremes out of bounds.
Mr. Gore, who announced in Carthage, Tenn., on Wednesday, and Mr. Bush, who did so in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, last Saturday, spoke as if they were using the same pollsters and at least some of the same speechwriters. 
 There were major structural differences, to be sure. In Carthage, Mr. Gore had dozens of quite specific proposals, both because that is the sort of person he is, and because he wanted to contrast his experience with Mr. Bush's. Mr. Gore described himself as "a leader who has been tested." In Cedar Rapids, Mr. Bush said that the time had not come for "10-point plans" and that he knew being Governor of Texas "isn't the same as being President."
Mr. Bush has one singular reason to avoid specifics early: There is a large Republican field ready to pick his proposals apart.
Even though they did not engage over detail, Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush were fighting over much of the same ground. Both opposed drugs in schools. Both promised to involve religious organizations in social welfare programs. Both supported foreign trade.
More generally, Mr. Gore boasted that "America now has the strongest economy in the history of the United States," but said that was not enough, but merely a foundation from which to "make family life work in America, for the issue is not only our standard of living, but our standards in life."
Mr. Bush, while saying the Clinton Administration "did not invent prosperity any more than they invented the Internet," said American prosperity had to amount to more than "simple materialism."
"Prosperity must have a greater purpose," he said. It has to provide "men and women who work hard, dream big, love their family, serve their neighbor."
The announcement speech used to be the one occasion when a would-be President could count on getting his message of why he should be President out, relatively undiluted by analysis of his motives or chances.
That exposure is less certain today, in large part because candidates seek to have so many bites of the political apple: announcing an intention to form an exploratory committee, announcing the committee, announcing the plan to announce and the announcement itself.
Indeed, Mr. Bush tried to reserve a later bite last Saturday. Even though he said, "I am running for President; there is no turning back," he also maintained, "I'll have a formal announcement sometime in the fall."
But an announcement speech still offers an opportunity to define a campaign, as Ronald Reagan did in 1979 when he quoted John Winthrop's line in establishing the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1630, "We shall be as a city upon a hill," and promised to lead the nation out of the pessimism he accused President Jimmy Carter of inflicting upon it. Or as George McGovern did in promising in 1971 to withdraw every American soldier from Vietnam, or as Bill Clinton did in 1991 saying he would "fight for the forgotten middle class."
Not only each candidate, but each kind of candidacy, has a formula.
Announcing a challenge to an incumbent of one's own party, as Mr. Reagan did in 1975 and Edward M. Kennedy did in 1979, requires saying the President has failed his party's ideal. Running against the other party's President if the economy is strong requires a speech so good no one -- certainly not Walter F. Mondale in 1983 or Bob Dole in 1995 -- has written it yet.
But the demands of running when a Vice President of an Administration with a successful economy seeks to succeed a President whose popularity is wearing thin are special -- and both speeches in the last few days owe a lot to the announcement speech of the last Vice President in such a situation, George H.W. Bush.
For example, though Mr. Gore used the word "Clinton" but twice, Vice President Bush said "Reagan" only once. Both Vice Presidents bragged on the economy.
Just as Vice President Bush was running against "an economy buffeted by incompetence and intrusion" he said Mr. Carter left behind seven years before, Vice President Gore recalled "deep recession and high unemployment," and said, "We remember what it was like seven years ago and I never want to go back."
Mr. Gore tried to distance himself from the worst part of his Administration's image, his President's scandals, by promising to use the nation's "moral leadership to fight for America's families." He said, "I will take my own values of faith and family to the Presidency."
Vice President Bush confronted the worst of the Reagan Administration's image when he said: "Where is it written that Republicans must act as if they do not care, as if they are not moved? I say to my fellow Republicans: We are the party of Lincoln. Our whole history was protecting those who needed our protection and making this a kinder nation."
Mr. Bush's son played against the Republican image, too, when he defended his own commitment to "compassionate conservatism," and asked: "Is compassion beneath us? Is mercy below us? Should our party be led by someone who boasts a hard heart? I know Republicans -- across the country -- are generous of heart."
There were other, perhaps familial, similarities. Governor Bush said "prosperity must have a purpose." His father had said "prosperity with a purpose means giving back to the country that has given you so much." The younger Mr. Bush said, "I'm running hard." The elder Mr. Bush said, "I mean to run hard."
Both Bushes and Mr. Gore, to give a message of inclusiveness, spoke a few words in Spanish.
Differences of approach will indeed become clearer as Governor Bush's policies become clearer. The most precise promise he made in his announcement speech was to see to it that Head Start, the preschool program for poor children, would "teach our youngest children phonics," the method of teaching reading that relies on the sounds of letters.
But there was a distinct difference in their attitudes toward the role of Government, though not the chasm that exists between the caricatures each party sketches of the other.
Governor Bush said, "Government can help" make schools safer and make examples of bad behavior. He said, "Government should do a few things and do them well."
And though Vice President Gore said no legislation and no President could replace parents as moral guides to their children, he offered a list of things Government should do to make life easier for families. He proposed:
*"Making high-quality preschool available to every child in every community all across the United States of America."
*Expanding "community policing, with more cops walking the beat."
*Amending the family leave law so parents could leave work for parent-teacher meetings and children's medical appointments.
*Enacting a patients' bill of rights.
*Helping "seniors pay for the prescription drugs they need."
Mr. Gore has 15 proposals for Government action in his speech.
Other Republican Presidential contenders have struck more combative, ideologically charged notes in their announcement speeches. Patrick Buchanan, the conservative commentator, urged his followers to "mount up and ride to the sound of guns," while vowing to protect the rights "of the innocent unborn." Gary Bauer, another conservative, announced his candidacy shortly after the school shootings in Littleton, Colo., and said American culture "glorifies death in a thousand ways."
Former Vice President Dan Quayle also cited the culture wars. Referring to a speech he gave as Vice President, in which he lambasted the values of American popular culture, Mr. Quayle noted, "Murphy Brown is gone and I'm still here fighting for the American family."
Mr. Gore's only Democratic opponent, former Senator Bill Bradley, has not given a formal announcement speech but has tackled broad subjects like race in his appearances. His stands on most issues do not contrast sharply with Mr. Gore's.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); FAMILY (70%); WOMEN WORKERS (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CLYMER, ADAM AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



428 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: RUSSIA;
Uncertainty Persists on U.S.-Moscow Dialogue

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany, June 19

 BODY:
When the Clinton Administration invited Russia to help it out of the war in Kosovo, the idea was that the involvement in big game diplomacy would help maintain Washington-Moscow ties, and even improve the ailing relationship.
But now, as President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia is about to make his first foreign trip in four months on Sunday and to meet here with President Clinton, as many -- if not more -- questions are hanging over the dialogue as were before the war. 
 The national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said here on Friday that relations with Russia had been "strained" by NATO's air strikes against Yugoslavia but now were "reinforced" by Russia's participation in the peace settlement.
But as Mr. Berger left a briefing room after making those remarks, he pretended not to hear a question about the likelihood of Mr. Yeltsin's actually turning up in Cologne. The last time the Russian leader was abroad, for the funeral of King Hussein of Jordan in February, he cut his stay to about an hour, apparently because of illness. "No, I didn't hear it," Mr. Berger said of the query.
In some ways, by declining to answer, Mr. Berger appeared to summarize the uncertainties of the Washington-Moscow relationship, which was most recently buffeted by three days of intense arguments in Helsinki, Finland, over where and how Russian troops should operate in Kosovo.
The resolution of the Russian troop issue on Friday night was a relief for the Administration. But it remains to be seen how the plan for the dispersal of Russian troops in Kosovo will be accepted in Moscow, where politicians and the public alike felt humiliated by the NATO air strikes and where the Kosovo peace settlement orchestrated by Viktor S. Chernomyrdin was assailed as a sell-out.
Russia's Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, said at the signing ceremony in Helsinki that the agreement on the troops would benefit overall American-Russian relations. But the dispatch of Russian troops from Bosnia to the Pristina airport in the dead of night exactly a week earlier -- apparently without Mr. Ivanov's knowledge -- showed that the Foreign Minister does not always speak for all of the Russian Government.
Over all, the Russians won concessions in the way their forces will interact with NATO in Kosovo, including 16 Russian liaison officers in the field and a Russian as commander of the Pristina airport. A senior Administration official said today that the agreement gave "more broadly national Russian control" over the Russian troops than in Bosnia, where Russians also serve with NATO. If disagreements develop beyond day-to-day tactics, the Russians can dissent, the official said.
The Helsinki agreement states that "all command arrangements will preserve the principle of unity of command." But unlike the arrangement in Bosnia, the paragraph in the Helsinki accord on unity of command adds, "This presumes that the Russian side exercises full political and military control over the Russian contingent."
The Administration was eager to have the peacekeeping dispute resolved before Mr. Yeltsin's arrival here at the conference of the seven major industrialized nations and Russia, thus giving what a senior Administration official described as a "reasonable prospect of getting the core parts of the relationship back on track."
But one inescapable issue for Washington is the flagging health of Mr. Yeltsin, in whom the Administration has vested much. Asked several weeks ago whether Mr. Yeltsin would make it to the meeting in Cologne, a Russian diplomat deadpanned: "He's transportable."
The decision-making process in Russia, never crystal clear, has also become even murkier of late.
"There are deep questions in Russia, now penetrating the Administration, about Yeltsin's mental as well as physical health," said Thomas Graham, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a former American diplomat who served in Moscow until 10 months ago.
"He is more unreliable and erratic than he was three or four months ago. There are a lot of doubts about whether he can make the flight and then function effectively for three to four hours."
Assuming that Mr. Yeltsin does arrive in Cologne, Administration officials say they will be dealing with a leader whose attitude toward the West is now pressed by increased anti-Western feelings at home.
A stark example of the anti-NATO sentiment from usually pro-Western quarters came from Boris Fyodorov, the former chief of the Federal Tax Service. Mr. Fyodorov, who helped organize a petition to stop NATO's bombing of Yugoslavia, said of the alliance, "Nobody can assume the role of a policeman to the universe, to murder people in the name of human rights."
For reformist Russian politicians who favored Russia's becoming a member of the Joint Permanent Council, an adjunct to NATO where Russia is consulted, the war in Kosovo has been a souring experience. Their argument for Russian participation in the Permanent Council was based on the notion that NATO was a defensive, not an offensive, alliance. "Those Russians feel burned," a senior Administration official said.
To try to re-energize the relationship with Moscow, President Clinton met this afternoon with the new Russian Prime Minister, Sergei V. Stepashin. Before doing so, in keeping with the Administration's disposition to lavish praise on new Russian leaders who may be open to Washington, Mr. Clinton said through an aide that he was "extremely impressed" by the Prime Minister. The two met with other leaders at dinner tonight.
With Mr. Yeltsin, Mr. Clinton plans to raise a longstanding menu of standard issues, officials said. These are arms control, economic reforms and nonproliferation, in particular what Washington argues is Moscow's continued transfer of sensitive nuclear technology to Iran.
On arms control, Washington will continue to press for the passage of the Start II treaty and will explain again the rationale for President Clinton's announcement in the State of Union address that the United States would pursue a national missile defense system. Moscow has objected to Mr. Clinton's proposal on the ground that it would violate the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty.
"These are difficult issues arising at a bad time in American-Russian relations," Mr. Graham said of arms control. "Russia needs to do it for financial reasons, but Russia can't for domestic reasons."
On economic progress in Russia, the picture is not so bleak, Administration officials said. Mr. Stepashin is moving on bank restructuring, a key demand of the International Monetary Fund. "There is a sense that Russia has played, over all, a constructive role," one official said. "People are going to want to be forward-leaning and helpful, but in a responsible way."
In essence, this means that the International Monetary Fund will probably be prepared to release the first installment of a $4.5 billion loan next month, the official said. The managing director of the fund, Michel Camdessus, praised Russia this week for improved tax collections, a slowing of inflation and an increase in business activity.
If the first installment is released, there is a "common understanding" among the seven industrialized nations here, the official said, that scheduled Russian debt payments of $5.5 billion should be deferred to the end of next year.
But no decision was reached here about what to do in the longer term with Russia's total debt of $155 billion, officials said.
As for the continued transfer of nuclear technology, the United States has placed sanctions on about a dozen institutes in Russia that the Administration contends have been involved in sending scientists and selling nuclear know-how to Iran. These sanctions prevent the institutions from doing business with the United States.
This issue is one of the most difficult, American officials said, because Washington cannot understand why Moscow would want to have nearby Iran become a nuclear power. It is also difficult, officials said, to determine whether the sale of the technology to Iran is Government policy or is yet another example of the breakdown of Government control in Russia that allows economic fiefs left over from the Communist era to do what they want.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Moscow won concessions on Friday night on how its forces will interact with NATO in Kosovo, including a Russian as commander of Pristina airport. Yesterday, ethnic Albanians passed Russian soldiers at the airport. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); KOSOVO (97%); SERBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FINLAND (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); JORDAN (75%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; GROUP OF SEVEN NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; GROUP OF SEVEN NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); KOSOVO (97%); SERBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FINLAND (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); JORDAN (75%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); STEPASHIN, SERGEI V (PRIME MIN); PERLEZ, JANE BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



429 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: AID;
Kosovars to Get European Help For Rebuilding

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany, June 19

 BODY:
The European Union today announced plans to provide $1.5 billion during the next three years for the reconstruction of Kosovo as the West tried to map out a strategy that would channel money to the war-devastated area without giving financial support to a Serbia controlled by Slobodan Milosevic.
Gunter Burghardt, the director-general for the European Union's Balkan policy, said the 15-nation bloc would provide $500 million annually over three years to Kosovo "irrespective of whether Milosevic is there or not." He added that the Yugoslav President, indicted by the international war crimes tribunal last month, had to be isolated. 
 "We have to get rid of the source of the cancer that has been spreading throughout the region over the past eight years," Mr. Burghardt, "That means we have to isolate Mr. Milosevic and put democratic institutions in his place."
But on the second day of a summit meeting of the seven leading industrialized countries and Russia, sharp differences emerged between Moscow and the West on whether any aid should be given to Serbia following NATO's 11-week bombardment.
Samuel R. Berger, the White House national security adviser, indicated that Russian objections had foiled plans to include in the group's final communique on Sunday a statement that no funds for reconstruction would be given to Serbia as long as Mr. Milosevic was in power.
"I believe the communique probably, therefore, will not address the issue," he said, adding, "I don't know whether the Russians would agree to a statement that money would not go to Serbia as long as Milosevic is there."
The dispute illustrated the ways in which Kosovo continues to complicate relations between Washington and Moscow and suggested that the agendas pursued by NATO and Russian forces in the province may not always be identical or even similar.
The European Union's announcement came on a day that leaders devoted largely to Kosovo and possible financial support for the debt-ridden Russian economy. Russia's Prime Minister, Sergei V. Stepashin, is also attending the talks, and President Boris N. Yeltsin is expected to arrive on Sunday.
French officials said Mr. Stepashin, who took office last month, had argued forcefully for aid for Serbia, saying that the conduct of Mr. Milosevic could not be allowed to prejudice millions of Serbs. Other officials said Italy, whose relations with Belgrade are better than those of most Western powers, had given some support to the Russian position, arguing that the Serbian people should not be collectively punished.
Russia's broad support for its traditional Orthodox Christian Serbian allies has been strong throughout the Kosovo war, but tempered by the fact that Mr. Yeltsin has no personal affection for Mr. Milosevic.
Mr. Berger said: "We will not take part in a reconstruction program so long as Mr. Milosevic is the President of Yugoslavia." But he added that the United States would be prepared to participate in limited programs of what he called "humanitarian assistance" to Serbia through the United Nations, the Red Cross or other agencies.
It was clear today that a sea change has occurred since the 1995 Dayton peace for Bosnia, reached with Mr. Milosevic's help. There is a decisively new level of outrage against the Serbian leader.
But the exact direction of policy toward Mr. Milosevic still appeared unclear. Aggressive financial aid for Kosovo, while largely isolating the rest of Serbia as long as he remains in power, presents several difficulties, Western officials said.
These include the fact that Kosovo formally remains part of Serbia, that it has no independent financial institutions capable of negotiating for loans, that its long border with the rest of Serbia is likely to be porous, and that it cannot indefinitely survive in institutional limbo.
It may also prove extremely difficult to help Montenegro, the other surviving republic in today's truncated Yugoslavia, while avoiding support for Mr. Milosevic. The West has indicated that it wants to accentuate the isolation of the Serbian leader by supporting Montenegro's democratically inclined government.
Another problem is that it may prove extremely difficult to draw a line between the emergency aid for food, medicine and shelter that the United States today indicated a willingness to give to Serbia, and the kind of broad support for reconstruction and development that Washington wants to avoid as long as Mr. Milosevic is in power.
"There is a very important distinction to be drawn between human assistance and reconstruction," Mr. Berger said, "but where the line lies is not self-evident."
He added that food "was on one side of the line and rebuilding industry or their basic infrastructure is on the other side of the line." But he asked: "Is getting electric lights back on for the winter humanitarian, or is it reconstruction?" He said he did not know the answer.
Britain took a harder position than the United States today, saying it would not take part in a financial aid program of any kind to Serbia as long as Mr. Milosevic was in power. Charities could provide any necessary emergency assistance, British officials said.
Mr. Burghardt said that the European Union had decided to set up a special agency to deal with aid for the Balkans and that a special international donors' conference for Kosovo would be convened in July on emergency assistance, with another later this year on more detailed aid.
Joly Dixon, a senior European Union financial official, said financial support would be concentrated on Kosovo in a first stage, to be followed by other countries affected by the war and finally the Balkan region as a whole.
The Clinton Administration official said teams from the United States were already in Kosovo assessing needs for the first conference in July. Between July and the fall, he added, there would be "a more intensive effort involving the World Bank, the European Union and others."
Just how much the United States will spend on Kosovo reconstruction remains unclear, although Europe has indicated that it will bear most of the burden. In Bosnia, more than $5 billion was pledged over four years, with Europe paying more than half. But actual payments proved slow, holding back reconstruction.
It was clear in the leaders' discussions today that for the first time since the wars of Yugoslavia's destruction began eight years ago, the West has decided to approach the crisis in the Balkans in a broad way.
After a long period of hesitation, the specific prospect of membership in the European Union has been held out to Croatia, Bosnia, Macedonia, Albania and Yugoslavia itself, providing that democracy and a market economy are convincingly installed.
But just how stability can be reached while Kosovo's status and future remain so vague was an issue that none of the western powers appeared inclined to address today. In effect, the West has decided to help the province as if it were independent while adhering to a policy that says such independence will not be granted.
The leaders also devoted sometime today to the question of who should occupy the pivotal top civilian post in Kosovo, without taking a decision.
In effect, the official, to be known as the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary General, will be a kind of pro-consul in a province marked by an extraordinary administrative void.
Among the tasks facing the administrator will be coordination and channeling of the various forms of assistance now being offered by the West, and the delicate management of any relations with Belgrade.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leaders of the major industrial powers and Russia posed for a photograph at European Union summit talks in Cologne, Germany. Europe announced a three-year, $1.5 billion plan yesterday to reconstruct Kosovo. (Reuters)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; GROUP OF SEVEN; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION UNION GROUP CORP (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; GROUP OF SEVEN; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); WAR CRIMES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); BERGER, SAMUEL R; STEPHASHIN, SERGEI (PRIME MIN) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



430 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Conde Nast's Stylish Clan Moves Into Times Sq.

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
With the coordination of an invading army, Conde Nast has begun moving its glossy fashion magazines into a new home at 4 Times Square, the first skyscraper built in New York City since 1992.
On Friday, workers began trundling 50 truckloads of computers, printers, files, photographs, fashion accessories and sports gear for Bride's, House and Garden, and Women's Sports and Fitness from their old office at 350 Madison Avenue to the 1.6 million-square-foot tower on Broadway, between 42d and 43d Streets. 
 Nearly 200 employees will sit down tomorrow in their new modular offices. And over the next two months, they will be joined by 400 more truckloads of equipment and 1,800 colleagues from Vanity Fair, Allure, Glamour, Self, GQ, The New Yorker and the other magazines that make up the Conde Nast empire.
Eventually, Conde Nast will inhabit floors 4 through 23 in the 48-story office tower in a once-seedy district that is now home to Viacom, Bertelsmann A.G. and Morgan Stanley. (Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, the largest law firm in the city, is scheduled to take over the top half of the tower by Thanksgiving.) For the first time in decades, S. I. Newhouse Jr., the chairman of Conde Nast Publications, has brought together the 17 sleek and sometimes fractious magazines that chronicle the culture and the well-paid and carefully coiffed people of our times.
"We're all preparing to live in harmony," said James Truman, the Conde Nast editorial director, who oversaw the three-year project, "or at least under the same roof."
Real estate and construction experts estimate that Conde Nast spent $100 million on its new space. Investment banks usually set the gold standard for lavish decor; for example, when Salomon Brothers moved into 7 World Trade Center in the early 90's, estimates of its spending ran to $250 a square foot. Mr. Newhouse averaged half that figure, although he pulled out all the stops when it came to the company's cafeteria, where, executives said, spending exceeded $400 a square foot.
Mr. Newhouse hired the architect Frank O. Gehry to design a highly stylized cafeteria, with wavy walls of blue titanium and cloudlike Venetian glass panels that enclose seating areas. Mr. Gehry and the glassmakers spent a year figuring out how to bend and stretch the glass in three dimensions. Four private dining rooms and an 85-seat auditorium adjoin the cafeteria, which will not open until early next year.
Since Conde Nast signed a deal for the building nearly three years ago, Times Square has become one of the most sought-after commercial neighborhoods in the city. Reuters recently started work on its new headquarters across from 4 Times Square, and Ernst & Young, the accounting firm, is close to a deal to build its own tower nearby. ABC's "Good Morning America" plans to open a street-front studio in September at 1500 Broadway.
Conde Nast will be moving from its old-money environs on the East Side, within easy reach of Brooks Brothers, Paul Stuart and Patroon, to the hurly-burly of Times Square.
"It's a vital area that has the kind of energy we associate with our magazines," Mr. Newhouse said. "The ambiance of that neighborhood suits us just fine."
It was Douglas Durst, the developer of 4 Times Square, who persuaded Conde Nast to make the move. In 1996, Mr. Durst put together the land for the project and gambled that if he built the first office tower since the recession of the early 1990's, it would quickly fill up.
Mr. Truman, the editorial director, said Conde Nast had a choice of either leaving its longtime home on Madison Avenue for a year while the space there was renovated, or moving permanently to a new building. The company chose to bring the magazines, scattered among six buildings, into the same tower.
He said he and the design firm of Mancini Duffy briefly considered the kind of alternative office pioneered by accounting firms in which each employee is assigned a personal locker, a portable telephone and a computer on wheels. Instead, they decided on what Mr. Truman described as a democratic approach to space that would encourage teamwork and provide an element of privacy.
The design might better be described as an architectural version of George Orwell's "Animal Farm," in which some people are more equal than others. Instead of giving all the window space to ranking executives, the company has decided to let many employees labor at metallic blue workstations near the windows.
At the next level up the ladder, most editors and writers who were not relegated to workstations were consigned to interior offices with glass doors.
Mr. Newhouse's office is in the middle of the Conde Nast space, on the 11th floor rather than the 23d.
But the publisher and editor in chief of each magazine still get the trappings of rank: a corner, or near-corner, office with windows.
Graydon Carter, the editor of Vanity Fair, whose current offices at 350 Madison Avenue are the envy of the company, brought in his own architect, Basil Walter, to insure that his new space will look exactly like his old office, which was renovated by the same designer four years ago. He then insisted on a feng shui ceremony to improve the spiritual environment.
Some editors and writers complained about the corporate look of the decor at 4 Times Square and the glass doors on their offices. One top editor has refused to even visit 4 Times Square before moving in. Another expressed trepidation about moving to a building that has been plagued by construction accidents, including a scaffolding collapse last summer in which an elderly woman was killed.
But many employees of the newer magazines embraced the opportunity to join their colleagues under a single roof.
"We're thrilled," said Lucy Danziger, editor in chief of Women's Sports and Fitness, which will be leaving cramped quarters on Madison. "There's a gorgeous art department and space for kayaks, bikes and the other stuff we have."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The lobby of 4 Times Square on Friday evening showed the signs of moving day, the first of many for new tenant Conde Nast Publications. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC; SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM; DURST ORGANIZATION CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (90%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (83%); BERTELSMANN AG (69%); VIACOM INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC; SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM; DURST ORGANIZATION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CONDE NAST BUILDING (MANHATTAN) MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); OFFICE DESIGN (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); WOMEN (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); GLASS MFG (60%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; DURST, DOUGLAS FRANK GEHRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



431 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Van Gundy Sits Atop N.B.A., But He Doesn't Realize It Yet

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON 

 BODY:
THIS was at one of those off-day news conferences in San Antonio the other day, the coach of the Knicks being asked, once again, if he felt personally vindicated by making it all the way to the N.B.A. finals after being one Miami bounce of the ball from the unemployment line.
Jeff Van Gundy tried to say the right thing, to be the polished diplomat, but the longer he went on, the more the victim lurking inside him cried out to be heard. 
 "One thing you get used to, if they can get you on results, they get you on results," he said. "If they can't get you on results, they get you on relationships. So they're going to get you on something."
Sitting in the front row, without intending to, I found myself blurting out, 'Who is 'they?' "
Van Gundy suddenly looked like the napping kid in the back of the class, called on to explain the theory of relativity.
"Just in general," he stammered. "I mean, whoever -- just to be -- whoever is being critical of you. We'll just leave it at whoever. That sounds better."
Actually, it sounded absurd.
With all this talk of people out to "get" Van Gundy, does he not yet get what has happened here? Nobody got him and nobody except Tim Duncan and David Robinson is going to. Whether or not the Knicks can rally in this series against San Antonio after losing Game 2, 80-67, Friday night, Van Gundy is walking out of this season with the Life of Riley, with a huge financial score for making the finals, with the highest of leaguewide profiles.
The Knicks, on the other hand, have no enviable coaching option to turn to.
While Van Gundy's band played on, Paul Silas was re-signing in Charlotte, Doc Rivers was taking over in Orlando and Phil Jackson was ditching O'Hare for O'Neal, Bradley for Bryant. The way this tumultuous National Basketball Association season has unfolded is reminiscent of a messy Bill Clinton script.
Van Gundy has come out of the pileup of organization egos looking clean and starched, like his former boss. Everyone else has been indicted for something, except Ernie Grunfeld, who was fired.
Months ago, Van Gundy was just an insecure coach with an unfamiliar cast. Dave Checketts and Grunfeld might have saved themselves big trouble by telling Van Gundy he was not going to be judged on what he did with new players in a short season. Nonetheless, the way it has worked out, Grunfeld is the only one here with the right to say, "If they can't get you on results, they get you on relationships."
Playing the good corporate soldier, Checketts fired his "close friend" over dinner and then publicly threw himself to the news media wolves for not telling the truth about a meeting he had to take with Jackson. Marcus Camby has convinced himself that Van Gundy cost him millions on the contract he signed during his too-soft exile, and maybe he's right. Even Patrick Ewing has lost out while Van Gundy gained. Ewing was overworked early when he was out of shape, because the coach wasn't about to let the general manager "get" him for losing games with players he didn't trust, or want.
If he wasn't pushed in February, maybe Ewing is out on the floor now, defending the low post, pump-faking Duncan into a few early fouls and making this series a fairer fight. Through it all, Ewing remained a Van Gundy man, forgetting that Checketts twice unloaded bundles of cash into Ewing's account when he might have taken a harder negotiating tack.
Van Gundy has done a splendid job, steering his team through the post-season. No argument there. He beat Pat Riley and Lenny Wilkens, then coached the legend right out of Larry Bird. He was right on using Latrell Sprewell off the bench, no matter how reasonable Sprewell sounds promoting his point. But Van Gundy was better cast last season as the underdog from the fast-food drive-through, when Riley slandered him in a fruitless attempt to fire up his troops. Now Van Gundy is a full-time operator and a big-time coach. He has confided to people that he isn't terribly proud of the political games he has played this season, but he did play them, and played them well.
Grunfeld lost. Van Gundy should junk the conspiracy line. Checketts is boxed in. Camby and Sprewell are under contract. Whatever they are saying privately, at least they have been perfect gentlemen when reporters have asked about the coach. Van Gundy sounds more like a myopic player when he answers "whoever" to the "who is they" question.
Players will admit they made the wrong defensive read, a foolish pass, but when they look at the big picture, they mostly see what they wish to. The coach should know better. Next season is not the issue right now but it eventually will be, perhaps by the end of the week. It wouldn't kill Van Gundy and wouldn't hurt his standing with Camby, to name one Knick, if he just once came out and admitted that he didn't cover himself with glory back in February and March. Even if the Knicks go out in four or five against the Spurs, Van Gundy has already won. Now all he has to do is act like a winner. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS BASKETBALL (90%); DISMISSALS (60%); INDICTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY; VAN GUNDY, JEFF VAN GUNDY (97%); PATRICK ALOYSIUS EWING (67%); DAVE CHECKETTS (65%); ERNIE GRUNFELD (60%); MARCUS CAMBY (56%); LATRELL SPREWELL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



432 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CONEY ISLAND;
Just How Minor Should a Minor League Baseball Club Be?

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES

 BODY:
Brooklyn started to look a little ungrateful to City Hall last Monday, when the city began the long process of public approval for a new Coney Island minor league stadium.
But even before the first hearing, Borough President Howard Golden and his allies stepped up their attack on the plan, saying the stadium and a Class A baseball club were not good enough for Brooklyn. 
 Mark S. Rosentraub, the author of a new study commissioned by Mr. Golden, argues that New York City is large enough to support a more advanced minor league team in addition to its two major league clubs and the Staten Island Yankees, a new minor league franchise. The Mets have offered to bring a short-season Class A team to Brooklyn, but it would play only 38 home games, about 30 fewer than most minor league teams. A Class AAA, or top-level, club would bring in thousands of additional fans and an additional $1.3 million to $3.8 million in revenues to Coney Island, the report said.
"Brooklyn just doesn't want the smallest crumbs on the table," said Mr. Rosentraub, who is a professor at Indiana University and an expert on the economics of baseball.
If only to get a more advanced Mets team, Mr. Golden wants the city to entertain offers from other professional teams, unaffiliated with the majors, that play a longer season. (Teams that are affiliated with major league franchises are not likely candidates; the Mets and Yankees can and probably will veto a move to the city by such affiliates.)
"Brooklyn must get the best team possible," Mr. Golden said.
But city officials fear that a team unaffiliated with the major leagues might not last long. They also note that a Brooklyn Class A team would play in the same league as the Class A Staten Island Yankees, creating cross-Narrows rivalry.
Moreover, said Curt Ritter, a spokesman for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, "The Borough President should realize Brooklyn has been without Major League baseball for 40 years, and the fact that the Mets will come to Coney Island is an historic event."
Despite Mr. Golden's objections, the city's Parks Department and Economic Development Corporation are proceeding with their plan. They held the hearing last Monday to gather comments before the city starts an environmental review of the stadium project.
Most audience members, many of whom were Mr. Golden's appointees to Community Board 13 in Coney Island, spoke out against the stadium. They argued that it could derail an amateur athletic facility, called Sportsplex, that is proposed for the same site. That project, which would incorporate a minor league park, would create more jobs and benefit Coney Island more than the stadium alone, they said.
"The Sportsplex offers us jobs and good economic development," said Marcey Feigenbaum, a community board member. "The stadium offers us nothing."
But city officials said the complex and the stadium were not mutually exclusive. "Sportsplex can still happen," said Joshua R. Laird, director of planning for the Parks Department. "There is room."
 JULIAN E. BARNES
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The old parachute jump would become part of the Sportsplex. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND YANKEES (75%); MAJOR LEAGUE ELECTRONICS INC (61%); PARKS DEPARTMENT&ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK METS (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK METS (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); APPROVALS (78%); MAYORS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); JOB CREATION (65%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



433 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Planning Our Population

 BODY:

To the Editor:
A June 13 editorial rightly salutes the family planning campaigns in Mexico and Colombia, which were aided by the Agency for International Development, the International Planned Parenthood Federation and the United Nations Population Fund. 
 Not all Latin American countries are as fortunate. In Guatemala, where the Government is less supportive of family planning, only 27 percent of women use modern contraception (compared with 56 percent in Mexico), and the average woman has about five children. As a result, the population in Guatemala -- where land is already scarce -- is projected to double or triple in the next 50 years.
To preserve human rights and regional stability, it would be wise and cost-effective for Congress to increase spending on international family planning and reproductive health.
 
FREDERICK MEYERSON
New Haven, June 15, 1999
 
The writer is project director at the Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); GUATEMALA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; MEXICO (94%); GUATEMALA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (51%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION FAMILY PLANNING (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN (88%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CONTRACEPTION (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (50%); 

PERSON: MEYERSON, FREDERICK

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



434 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Planning Our Population

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your June 13 editorial "Latin America's Birth Surprise" underscores the critical importance of family planning worldwide. 
 Right now, about a billion people living in the developing world are in the prime childbearing years of ages 15 to 24. There are two billion more future parents right behind them.
Reproductive health services are among the most cost-effective ways to stabilize the world's health and economy. But international powers, including the United States, are failing to give enough aid to developing countries for them to keep pace with the growing need for voluntary family planning services.
The reproductive decisions that adolescents worldwide make will have a profound impact on the health of our planet, the availability of global resources and everyone's quality of life. We need to give all young people access to the information and services they need to make responsible choices about sex and reproduction.
 
GLORIA FELDT
President, Planned Parenthood Federation of America
New York, June 14, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); 

STATE: EARTH (78%); 

COMPANY: BUT INTERNATIONAL (57%); BUT INTERNATIONAL (57%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); EARTH (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FAMILY PLANNING (92%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); ADOLESCENTS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



435 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 3; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: ON PRO BASKETBALL;
Duncan, a No-Frills Guy Who's Beyond His Years

BYLINE: By Mike Wise

 BODY:
On most road trips, Tim Duncan packs the toys of choice for the Y2K pro athlete: a DVD movie player and a Sony PlayStation. He likes current cinema and mindless video games, often killing time on the team plane with the young reserve point guard Antonio Daniels.
Yet every so often, an elder teammate will test his 23-year-old frame of reference. 
 Last month, for example, the veteran center Will Perdue recommended that Duncan and Daniels check out a sappy basketball movie made in the mid-1970's: "One on One," starring Robby Benson.
"They were like, 'What's 'One on One' and who's Robby Benson?' " Perdue said. "So we brought it on the plane flying to Minnesota. And they were like, 'Hey, that was pretty good.'
"Well, nobody got shot. Nobody got killed," Perdue said. "And they didn't wreck 50 cars."
They merely played basketball. What a concept.
Duncan is dominating these National Basketball Association finals, playing the game that time forgot. He uses power dribbles to move closer to the rim. He faces up his defender from 18 feet away on the wing and uses the glass to bank in shots. He uses his reach to pass to teammates cutting through the lane. He has this pretty little jump hook that is beginning to look Waltonesque.
It is an interesting dichotomy: the old-school mind controlling and nurturing a Generation X body. There are no frills to Duncan's game, no death stares after a blocked shot and no scowls after a monster dunk. In San Antonio's victories against the Knicks in the first two games, and throughout the playoffs, he has used an economy of movement and emotion.
Through circumstance and constant work, in two remarkable years he has become the game's best player. It is the kind of achievement that would usually establish a player as the example to emulate: the lanky kid from the Virgin Islands who decided to stay at Wake Forest for his senior year instead of entering the N.B.A. draft early.
And yet at a time when Commissioner David Stern is considering an age requirement for players entering the N.B.A. -- and 19-year-old Lamar Odom is confused about whether to stay or go -- Duncan is still an anomaly.
Teen-agers still want the money they have been told is owed to them by their needy support groups and families. Simply, the chance to be the Kevin Garnett of today outweighs the patience and reward of being the Duncan of tomorrow.
The single largest problem in the N.B.A. today is that young kids enter the league with a sense of entitlement, the idea that they are owed something because their university used their number on a jersey at the campus bookstore and they were not compensated for it.
Duncan did not attend an Adidas or Nike camp for gifted basketball players when he was 15 years old. He did not participate in the cattle call that most American kids are in each summer for the college and pro scouts that are salivating over their talent.
He swam in high school, took up basketball late and enjoyed the fruits of college rather than go to work right away. And when he did enter the N.B.A., he worked harder on his game than on his image.
This is the player he has become.
"Whether it's guard or forward or center, I have yet to see a guy in this age of the game that's come into the league with such fundamental soundness," Perdue said. "A lot of teams, they draft the best athlete and work on their games. In Tim's case, he was the best player and the best athlete."
In this lockout-scarred season, some of the best reasons to celebrate the game rather than denigrate it has been the transformation of young, disconnected knuckleheads into fearless competitors with passion and purpose. Whether it's Allen Iverson in the East or Jason Williams and Chris Webber out West, their scintillating play has forced Stern to view them as bona fide stars for the millennium.
Duncan, standing taller than the rest, leads the contingent. As Year 1 of the post-Michael era ends, Duncan is displaying all the qualities that made people once pay incredible attention to the game.
There are, of course, marketing kinks to work out in the future. Duncan is as quiet and introverted as he is good. Some of his teammates have taken to calling him the silent assassin. At the moment, he is not inducing any bidding war for his likeness on Madison Avenue. Maybe another week in the national spotlight and a title can change that.
Either way, he is keeping amazing perspective during heady times. According to Perdue, while Duncan has been helping save the league with his old-school game, he has also managed to keep his Gen-X priorities in order.
"He seems to be very grounded," Perdue said. "I've been with him for over two years now, and he never seems to get overjoyed about anything -- except about maybe kicking somebody's behind in Sony PlayStation. He does take a lot of pride in that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Spurs' Tim Duncan (21) has been a constant force against the Knicks in the first two games of the N.B.A. finals, as Marcus Camby (23) can attest. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (53%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); TEXAS, USA (53%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASKETBALL (92%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); ATHLETES (76%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); FILM GENRES (73%); GENERATION X (50%); 

PERSON: KEVIN GARNETT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



436 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Gore: 'There Is a Hunger And Thirst for Goodness'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Vice President Al Gore's speech announcing his candidacy for the Democratic nomination for President, on June 16 in Carthage, Tenn., as recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription service: 
 Under the policies President Clinton and I have proposed, instead of the biggest deficits in history, we now have the biggest surpluses in history. Instead of quadrupling our national debt, we have seen the creation of almost 19 million new jobs. Instead of a deep recession and high unemployment, America now has our strongest economy in the history of the United States.
We remember what it was like seven years ago, and I never ever want to go back. America always looks forward to the next horizon. I want to keep our prosperity going, and I know how to do it. I want to do it the right way, not by letting people fend for themselves or hoping for crumbs of compassion, but by giving people the skills and knowledge to succeed in their own right . . . .
But as important as prosperity is, there is more to long for. There is a hunger and thirst for goodness among us. Just visible within a generation's journey is a new horizon, a 21st-century America with stronger families, stronger communities and a more vital democracy in which we live and govern according to our highest American ideals. . . .
And so today, I ask you to join with me to keep our economy growing, and bring a new wave of fundamental change to this nation, starting with revolutionary improvements in our public schools. I ask you to join with me to build safe and livable communities where we protect our environment and restore the quality of life we deserve.
I ask for your help to strengthen family life in America, and I make you this pledge: If you entrust me with the Presidency, I will marshal its authority, its resources and its moral leadership to fight for America's families. With your help, I will take my own values of faith and family to the Presidency, to build an America that is not only better off but better. And that is why today I announce that I am candidate for President of the United States. . . .
Seven years ago, we needed to put America back to work, and we did. . . . We have closed our budget deficit. But today we find a deficit of even greater danger, one that only seems to deepen the harder we work and the better we do. These are our deficits now:
The time deficit in family life.
The decency deficit in our common culture.
The care deficit for our little ones and our elderly parents.
Our families are loving, but overstretched. . . . The crisis in the American family today knows no boundary of class or race. It is a challenge we share together, and it is one we must overcome together.
One of the best ways to help American families is by making America's public schools the finest in the world. With your help, I will bring revolutionary improvement to our public schools. And I will start by making high-quality preschool available to every child . . . .
With your help, I will reduce class sizes and establish high standards and accountability. I will make it easier for parents to save for college tuition tax free and inflation free. I will improve teacher quality and treat teachers like professionals.
We have to have schools that instill the values and character we need in the next generation. And every school in America has to be drug-free and gun-free. . . .
We must also expand community policing, with more cops walking the beat. It's not enough to support the death penalty, which I do; we must also give police new crime-fighting tools to track every lead, catch every criminal and protect every citizen.
And families deserve refuge from a culture of violence and mayhem. I will work to give parents the ability to protect their children from the marketing of cruelty and degradation. Parents also deserve help balancing work and family. I want to bring after-school programs to every community in America. And no parent should have to risk losing a job to go to a parent-teacher conference at school or to drive a child or an aging parent to the doctor. And I will expand the Family and Medical Leave Act to make sure that we do just that. . . .
All these policy choices are important, but let's remember this: No executive action can mend a broken family; no legislation can reconnect a parent to a child or a family to a grandparent. No policy proposal can change a culture that does not place family life at the top of our hierarchy of values, where it belongs.
And so today I say to every parent in America, it is our own lives we must master if we are to have the moral authority to guide our children. The ultimate outcome does not rest in the hands of any President, but with all our people taking responsibility for themselves and for each other. So my first promise is to ask you, each of you, to fulfill that American promise.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Gore says a strong economy is a foundation for family values. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



437 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14WC;Page 12;Column 1;Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3895 words

HEADLINE: Hopes and Fears of the Class of '99

 BODY:
In Westchester, the class of '99 has many faces. Here is what some of its members had to say when interviewed by Elsa Brenner.
 
Looking for a Role In Local Politics
 
WHO -- Jeremy Weinberg, 17, New Rochelle High School. 

ACHIEVEMENTS -- President of the school's chapter of the National Honor Society, member of high school's model congress, writer of poetry for the school literary publication Opus.
 
AFTER GRADUATION -- "I plan to enroll at Cornell University and major in policy analysis and management. I want to study government, economics and sociology with the goal of one day playing an active role in local politics."
 
THE BEST -- "The best part of high school was the kinship I developed with my classmates and, perhaps more important, my teachers. Shared interests and a collective desire to excel transformed many of my classrooms into settings that resembled a family home more than a place of learning. It was an amazing experience to learn and grow with a group of others."
 
THE WORST -- "The worst part of high school was having to see peers of mine who lacked the desire and motivation to care about what they were doing. It was difficult for me to accept that some people cannot be made to take pride in achieving in the classroom. I always hate to see people who have no passion for anything."
 
THE UNEXPECTED -- "What surprised me the most in my high school experience would probably have to be my school's reaction to the verdict in the O. J. Simpson trial. Many people expected that a school as ethnically diverse as New Rochelle High School would erupt at the climax of a racially charged event like that trial. However, there was a great amount of peace after the verdict was announced. It was quite a pleasant surprise."
 
WHAT IF? -- "If I could change anything about high schools, I would make them more of a partnership between faculty, students and parents. I think that the key to success is a desire to succeed. The only way to create that desire is to establish an environment where all three of these important links feel a sense of community and a shared goal of creating a higher level of education. If parents, teachers and students work together, each can feel as if they can influence the direction that their community's education system is moving. Involvement on the local level makes all the difference. In high schools around the country, I would like to see teachers making more of an effort to establish a relationship with students and their parents outside of school. A little time and a small amount of caring on the part of educators could improve schools across America."
 
GOOD ADVICE -- "The piece of advice that is freshest in my head at the moment is one given to me at my Senior Awards Ceremony by my advanced placement government teacher, Deborah Minchin. She said, 'Never confuse who you are with the awards you have won.' "
 
THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "The thing that excites me the most about the future is the chance I will have to run for public office and put my ideas into practice."

 THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "I am scared the most by the prospect of not being able to achieve the level of success of my father's generation. My generation has caught on to the prospect of the American Dream hook, line and sinker. We look at our parents and envy the innocent America in which they were raised. We like to think that our hard work will lead to success, but we fear that the wonderful opportunities our parents had will not be there when we grow older. I think that every generation would have the same fears at this age. However, my generation has seen our parents achieve a much greater level of financial success in America than their parents did. The bar has been raised for the children of the 90's and they fear that at some point the opportunities others had in the past will disappear in front of their faces."
 
LIFE AT 30 -- "I see my life at 30 being difficult but rewarding. As much as I fear that the American and global economies will not be as friendly to me as they were to my parents, I still believe that if you work hard enough, then opportunity will always come your way. At 30, I see myself working as hard as I am now to insure that opportunities will always be at my disposal."
 
Overcoming the past To Live the Present
 
WHO -- Luis Ortiz, 21, Southern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services class at Rye Neck High school.
 
ACHIEVEMENTS -- Returned to complete his education after a shooting that left him in a wheelchair; winner of the Overcoming the Odds Award given by the Board of Cooperative Educational Services.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "I plan to go to United Cerebral Palsy to train with computers in order to get a paying job. I need training on a computer because that will be the main tool I will use when I start to work."
 
THE BEST -- "The best part of the Boces program was the fact that I had teachers who have helped me a lot. They really care about me and have helped me get the things I really needed."
 
THE WORST -- "The worst thing about school was in my old one in the Bronx. Kids would bring guns and other weapons to school. The school was more like a jail because of the metal detectors and guards in the building. They were needed in the school, but that made it feel like a prison."
 
THE UNEXPECTED -- "The biggest surprise I ever had during high school was when I received the Overcoming the Odds Award last month. It was such an honor and I was very surprised when I found out I was one of the winners. One of the prizes is going to be a laptop computer, which I really need."
 
WHAT IF? -- "If I could change one thing in all the high schools, I would bring in more computers for the students to use. Technology is changing the world, and all kids need to know how to use computers. I know it is the main thing I need to know."

GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice anyone had ever given me is not to do drugs. Unfortunately, I didn't listen to my mother and now I am in a wheelchair. I got involved with a bad crowd and it has left me a quadriplegic."
 
THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "Right now I can't really think about the future. I have to concentrate on right now."
 
THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "The future scares me because I don't know what it will be like. I don't know how it will be for me. It really does scare me!"
 
LIFE AT 30 -- "I don't want to think about when I turn 30. I don't look that far ahead. I only think about right now."
 
A Pursuit of Dance and Choreography
 
WHO -- Elizabeth Anne Gill, 18, Yorktown High School.

ACHIEVEMENTS -- Student council member; choreographed and performed in "Fiddler on the the Roof" and "West Side Story," and a member of Students Against Drunk Driving.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "I will be attending the Alvin Ailey/Fordham University Bachelor of Fine Arts program in dance at Lincoln Center."

THE BEST AND WORST -- "The best and worst parts of high school have both come from watching me and my fellow students change in our most formative years. Growing as a person and watching my friends develop into people whom I greatly admire has been extremely satisfying. On the other hand, watching some old friends distance themselves and develop into strangers was one of the worst feelings in the world."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "Looking back at high school I was most surprised at how involved I became in the intricate workings of the school. When I first entered high school I was content to remain isolated in my studies and uninvolved in the various organizations. Over the years, I have realized that becoming a part of my high school and knowing that I will leave some bit of myself behind have become surprisingly important to me."

WHAT IF? -- "High schools need to examine the delicate relationships that can be built between teachers and students when there is a mutual sharing of knowledge. Unfortunately, many students are lost in school because they don't feel involved in their education. When students are given the opportunity to influence their teachers, just as teachers hope to influence students, then the students value the education they receive."

GOOD ADVICE -- " Some of the best advice that I have received came from my English teacher, Natalie Farina. She said to our class one day: 'Become observers of the world. Learn to really see what is happening around you and how it relates to the society around it.' I feel that this advice is especially poignant when applied to high school. Because high school students are just beginning to discover who they are, they sometimes try to project an image of how they'd like to be seen. I have found that in high school it is especially important to distinguish between the qualities you see on the surface and those that are true to someone's real self."
 
THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "I am both excited and scared about the responsibility that I will have in the future. Most of the time I can't wait to be in New York City, getting myself around and pursuing dance. However, I am also scared when I realize that only I will be able to push myself. This responsibility means that my successes and failures will be completely my own."
 
THE FUTURE, FEARS: -- "When my parents were preparing themselves for college, the Vietnam War was heating up and both feared the escalation of the war as well the possibility of losing their friends who might be sent over to fight. Since the present U.S. conflicts have not produced a draft, I have been lucky enough to live without extreme fear of war. My fears are more personal. I worry about not being a success in my own eyes. I worry about the rejection that comes with pursuing a career in such a competitive field as dance. My parents did not have the same career dreams when they were my age. I dream of being a respected dancer-choreographer."

LIFE AT 30 -- "I hope that when I am 30 years old, I will have already started establishing myself within the artistic community. I would like to have had substantial experience with dance companies by then and opportunities to display my own choreography."
 
The Goal: Opening own Florist Shop
 
WHO -- Danielle Arco, 18, Westlakes High School in Thornwood.
 
ACHIEVEMENTS -- Majored in horticulture through a program offered by the Southern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services, receptionist in a veterinary hospital.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "My plans after high school are to get a job working with a florist and to train in that field so I can open up my own shop someday."

THE BEST -- "The best part of high school was the happy memories, the friendships and my boyfriend, Sal."

THE WORST -- "The worst part was seeing some friends come and go, and losing them."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "Looking back, the biggest surprise for me was how fast it all went by. You don't realize at the time how fast it will all be over."

WHAT IF? -- "If I could change one thing in high schools, it would be to make people set aside their differences and get along, and not belong to cliques where some people are left out because they don't dress a certain way. It didn't bother me personally so much, but I have seen many kids hurt because they weren't included."

GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice I ever received was from my father, who always encouraged me to try new things and not to get down on myself. He helped me realize that I wanted to study horticulture and flowers."

THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "When I look ahead, the thing that excites me the most is the opportunity I will have to do things for myself, to be responsible for myself."

THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "What scares me is not knowing what to expect. Maybe it won't turn out the way I wish it will. Everyone always says that life is easy only when you're young."

LIFE AT 30 -- "Hopefully at 30, I will be happily married, have two children and own a flower shop."
 
A Lifelong Desire: Becoming a Lawyer
 
WHO -- Louise Kellie Beach, 18, Peekskill High School.
 
ACHIEVEMENTS -- Member of National Honor Society, student council president, intern in a law office.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "My post high school plans are to attend Hofstra University and major in English, minor in science and go on to law school, ultimately practicing law."

THE BEST -- "I enjoyed being involved in many of the extracurricular activities: National Honor Society, student council, community service, cheerleading, Black Culture Club."

THE WORST -- "The worst part of my high school years was the preparation and taking of the Scholastic Achievement Test."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "I was surprised to find that the work load was not as overwhelming as I had been told."
 
WHAT IF -- "I would change the scheduling process because not all, but many, students take classes just to simply get by and receive a passing grade. I feel that each student should be challenged with a rigorous schedule to prepare them for what college life offers, because after all, high school is a stepping stone leading to college."

GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice I received was from my grandmother, who instilled in me from a very early age that there is nothing too hard for me and that obstacles are meant to be overcome."

THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "What excites me the most about the future is achieving my lifelong dream. From a young age I knew my desired career goal -- a corporate lawyer. To achieve this goal would be a dream come true not only for me but for my parents also."

THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "I would have to say that what scares me the most are the challenges associated with college life -- being in large classroom settings, getting along with a roommate and navigating my way around campus."

LIFE AT 30 -- "At the age of 30, I will be a successful corporate lawyer, married and raising a family."
 
For the Future, Being Happy is the Goal
 
WHO -- Andrew Goldberg, 18, Hastings-on-Hudson High School.
 
ACHIEVEMENTS -- Class valedictorian, National Merit scholar, student government participant, guitar player.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "I plan to study mathematics and computer science at Amherst College in Amherst, Mass."

THE BEST -- "Coming from a small high school, I'd say the best part of my high school experience was the close interaction between students and teachers. In a small school, there are so many opportunities available for everyone."
 
THE WORST -- "The worst part of high school was the occasional stress and worrying that accompanied all of my hard work. It was hard to balance everything all the time, and sometimes my self-imposed pressure was a little too strong."
 
THE UNEXPECTED -- "My biggest surprise looking back would have to be the fact that I was able to maintain my academic performance while being busy with several clubs and activities and many other obligations. I always tried to manage my time well to make sure this was possible."

WHAT IF -- "If I could change any one thing in high schools, I would make it possible for all students to have all the opportunities they desire. Some students attend public schools which lack money and many of the resources that are available to students in other areas of the country. All students should be able to explore and branch out in many directions so that they find their niche."

GOOD ADVICE -- "I can't think of specific advice that anyone has given me, but my parents have always taught me to work toward and try to surpass my potential."

THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "I am most excited about going to college this fall. After growing up in such a small village, my classmates and I know each other almost too well, and it will be a great opportunity to begin again in college with an empty canvas."
 
THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "What scares me the most about the future and college is not being able to form a close-knit group of friends like I have in high school now. I bet my dreams and fears are rather similar to those of my parents when they were my age because they are fairly natural feelings. The future can be intimidating, and to have worries is completely normal."
 
LIFE AT 30 -- "I don't really know what I'll be like when I'm 30. I could go through college and graduate school and wind up in a computer-related career, while I could also find new direction at college and end up somewhere totally different. Whatever I do, though, I would like to have a family and be happy when I'm 30. As long as you're happy, the rest doesn't really matter."
 
'I've Become a Role Model for Other Kids'
 
WHO -- Jerome Matthews, 18, Port Chester High School.
 
ACHIEVEMENTS -- Co-captain of the basketball team. (Said he "learned in high school to play a sport rather than let it play him.")

AFTER GRADUATION -- "I plan to attend Delhi Junior College in Delhi, N.Y."
 
THE BEST -- "The best part of high school was recovering from my downfalls and being in the wrong crowd. I've become a role model for other kids."

THE WORST -- "The worst part of high school was going through some obstacles. I was cutting classes and bringing myself down. I was failing my courses, and I was left out of sports for a while."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "The biggest surprise was turning myself around academically and otherwise and finally being able to graduate with my class. I live in a low-cost housing project in Port Chester, and Earl Johnson, another basketball player who lived in my building and now attends Rutgers, encouraged me to bring up my grades."
 
WHAT IF -- "If there was one thing I could change, it would be to set up a mentor system for kids. It's important for us to have someone to look up to."

GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice I ever received was from my grandmother and mother, who sat me down and said: "Jerome, you have to play basketball. Don't let it play you. Don't forget your studies because you have to have something to fall back on."
 
THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "The thing that excites me most about the future is that I am one of the first people in my family who is going to college. A lot of the younger kids are looking up to me."
 
THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "What scares me is that I'll be three or four hours away from my family. What if there are problems?"
 
LIFE AT 30 -- "By the time I'm 30, I hope I am well educated and have an associate's degree, a bachelor's degree and a master's degree -- and a nice wife and two kids and a home like I did not have."
 
A Lesson Learned: 'Never Give Up'
 
WHO -- Christopher C. Ellis, 17, Archbishop Stepinac High School.

ACHIEVEMENTS -- Member of the track team, Salutatorian of graduating class, winner of the William Plunkett Award given annually to a student who has excelled academically, given exceptional service to the school and served as a role model of values.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "After caddying this summer at a golf club, I will attend Syracuse University to study communications and journalism."

THE BEST -- "The best part of high school and going from a small parochial school in Yonkers to a larger school was meeting a lot of new people, making new friends and learning from new teachers."

THE WORST -- "The worst part of high school was having to travel so far by train and bus from my home in Yonkers to White Plains."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "I was suprised at how different high school was from grammar school and how independent I was able to be."

WHAT IF -- "If I could change something in high schools, it would be to have more teachers get more involved with students. I would like to see students having more of a say in the classroom and more opportunities to interact. Classroom teaching should not be just about straight lectures."
 
GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice I ever received was from my parents who told me never to give up, even when I hit slumps either in sports or with my school work."

THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "I am most excited about the new independence I will experience living at college, and the chance I'll have to focus in more on a particular subject like journalism."

THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "I am most uncertain about what the future holds -- both in college and the job market."

LIFE At 30 -- "I want to be successful -- to have a good job, even if I am not the highest paid person -- and to have a wife who is a good person. I want to live an honest, straight life and be happy. Some people see success as making millions of dollars or driving the best car, but I don't know if that necessarily makes someone emotionally happy. I want to be settled by 30 and not stressed out."
 
First Woman To Be President, Perhaps?
 
WHO -- Erika Zauner, 17, Hackley School, Tarrytown.

ACHIEVEMENTS -- Voted most valuable player for the varsity field hockey team, editor of The Vision, the school's literary magazine.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "Before attending Princeton University in the fall, I will work for part of the summer as a volunteer for a cardio-thoracic surgeon at Cornell Medical Center in New York City. I am also working as a waitress for several weeks in Spring Lake, N.J., and will attend field hockey camp for two weeks."

THE BEST -- "The highlight of high school was working with teachers and coaches who love what they are doing and inspire students to excel at and enjoy a subject or activity."

THE WORST -- "The worst part of high school was the cliques. Most kids are so insecure in high school and super-conscious of other people's perceptions of them, which fosters the formation of cliques."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "The biggest surprise for me in my private high school, as a student coming from public school, was the extraordinary commitment of so many teachers to a positive learning experience."
GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice ever given to me was from my grandmother, who often says, 'If you enjoy the simple pleasures in life, you will always be a happy person.' This advice has helped me to appreciate little things every day, like an intimate conversation with my sister or the sunset on my drive home from school."

THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "What excites me most about the future are the many opportunities created by rapid advancements in the fields of technology and science and genetics. I learned a great deal about genetic disorders in a genetics tutorial I took this year and the thought of helping people overcome a disorder or sickness, such as breast cancer, by manipulating their genes is amazing and very promising."

THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "What scares me the most? Although the thriving field of genetic research has many positives, the work done to manipulate genes to clone people or the possibility of altering the genetic code of fetuses so parents can choose the traits they want their child to possess is very scary. While the field of genetics possesses promising potential in helping people overcome illnesses or disorders, daunting images of a "Brave New World" society come to mind when thinking of the consequences of abusing genetics."
 
LIFE AT 30 -- "I hope by age 30 to be a pediatrician or pediatric surgeon. However, I might go to Princeton and find that I'm intrigued by politics, who knows? Maybe I'll end up being a lawyer or a teacher or even the first woman President."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 27, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about high school graduates misidentified the organization that gave an award to Luis Ortiz. It was Student Advocacy of Elmsford, not the Southern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services.

GRAPHIC: Photos (pgs. 12 & 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOOD ADVICE PRESS (50%); NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (58%); NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (58%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (58%); NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (58%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (72%); POETRY (71%); VERDICTS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



438 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3;Page 9;Column 1;Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
One Bump in Rates Isn't a Mountain

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
IS the worst over?
It's easy to think so after a week in which the Consumer Price Index for May came in unchanged from April and Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, seemed to signal that the central bank may need only a modest increase in its short-term interest rate target to slow growth, deflate this year's inflation boomlet and keep the economy on track. 
 The shift in sentiment was big. A week ago, the yield on the 30-year bond jumped to an 18-month high of 6.16 percent as investors thought that two -- or even three -- rate increases were possible. By Friday, the yield had tumbled back below 6 percent, to 5.97 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished the week up 3.8 percent.
While investors may be relieved, what the Fed will do after policy makers meet on June 30 -- when they are almost certain to raise their short-term interest rate target a quarter of a percentage point -- is still up in the air.
And the spreads between yields on Treasury securities and corporate bonds, junk bonds and emerging-markets debt are still wide enough to indicate that some investors see the risk of near-term turmoil.
Mr. Greenspan signaled a rate increase when he told the Joint Economic Committee of Congress that "when we can be pre-emptive we should be, because modest pre-emptive actions can obviate the need of more drastic actions at a later date that could destabilize the economy."
Investors took their cues from "modest" and "more drastic action" and concluded that one rate increase might be enough.
But Mr. Greenspan sent other signals that can be interpreted to mean rate increases will go as far as needed to assure that economic growth slows to around a 3 percent rate.
Specifically, he said the 4 percent average annual growth of the last four years was based on a two percentage-point increase in worker productivity and a one percentage-point increase in the working-age population. The remaining point, he said, came from the shrinking of the pool of job seekers without work.
That last development "represents an unsustainable trend," Mr. Greenspan said. Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, said Mr. Greenspan has set a speed limit because he does not want a further decline in the unemployment rate. If that happens, Mr. Greenspan faces the inflationary wage increases that the Fed is determined to avoid.
"A bull would say, 'I think the economy will slow down pretty much on its own, so we are fine,' " Mr. Barbera said. "A bear would say, 'Greenspan told us rates are going up until the economy slows down.' "
STILL, the worst may be over for the average investor, who should look beyond that uncertainty. If the Fed does what is expected -- and there is no good reason to think that it won't -- then the outlook for both bonds and stocks is positive over the longer term. And market timing is not a game that smaller investors -- with long-term goals -- should play in any case.
The immediate market reaction to rate increases often ignores the long-term perspective. "The knee-jerk reaction -- one never knows. It can be bad," said Abby Joseph Cohen, the market strategist at Goldman Sachs & Company. "What matters is what happens after that." After the necessary rate increase -- she is not predicting how many will be needed to slow growth -- she expects the market outlook to improve, helped by what she believes will be good second-quarter earnings reports. The second quarter, Ms. Cohen added, might even be strong enough to make her increase her corporate earnings forecast, which is now 7 to 8 percent growth this year and next.
That means investors can consider picking up some bonds on the assumption that they will rally as rates fall -- in the second half of the year ---- in the wake of a Fed success. And sticking with stocks looks O.K., too, as good earnings reports should be even a better bet in the third and fourth quarters as the comparisons to 1998 get easier.
The Fed, Ms. Cohen said, "can do this in a way that does not harm the economy." As she did with the one-quarter-point rate increase in March 1997, Ms. Cohen is calling this a "flu shot." Yes, it hurts. But it staves off something worse.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 27, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday with the Portfolios, Etc., column, about possible effects of an increase in interest rates, misstated the history of the Federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks since March 1997, when it was raised to 5.5 percent. The rate has been lowered three times since then, to 4.75 percent; it has not been flat. A corrected chart is on page 8.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Yes, but Will It Hurt?"
Many investors expect the Federal Reserve to raise the Federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks by 0.25 percent. But they wonder whether it will be a one- time increase, as it was in March 1997 -- a move that became known as the flu shot.The graph shows the movement of the Federal funds target rate since 1993. (Sources: Federal Reserve Bank of New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO INC (62%); HOENIG & CO LTD (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



439 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11;Page 7;Column 1;Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes /The Gardiner-Tyler House, West New Brighton, Staten Island;
Where a President's Widow Backed the Confederacy

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
DURING the Civil War, the elegant Greek revival Gardiner-Tyler House, in West New Brighton, Staten Island, sheltered one of New York's most conspicuous rebel sympathizers, Julia Gardiner Tyler, widow of President John Tyler. When she was not involved in pro-Confederate activities, she was busy trying to reunite her family, scattered by the war. Now another family is reuniting in this grand temple-fronted house, as a new addition brings together three generations under one roof.
 Now on a small plot surrounded by modest houses, the Gardiner-Tyler house was built around 1837 as a much larger country estate, apparently by an Eliza Racey, about whom little is known.
The main entrance -- under the temple front -- faces south across a wide valley, and the house is of simple plan, with a front to back center hall. 
 The precisely carved Corinthian capitals on the four double-height columns seem more sophisticated than the heavy scrolled brackets that connect the portico to the house, but it is difficult to tell if they are later alterations -- the earliest good photographs of the house are from the turn of the century.
Early occupancy of the house is sketchy, but Robert Seager's 1963 book, "And Tyler Too," says that, according to Gardiner and Tyler family correspondence, Juliana Gardiner, Julia Gardiner Tyler's mother, bought the house in 1852.
 Juliana Gardiner was the widow of David Gardiner -- a member of the Long Island family that owned Gardiner's Island. Gardiner had died in February 1844 after a cannon exploded during testing on a ship in the Potomac River. President Tyler had also been aboard.
Already friendly with the Gardiner family, Tyler became even more friendly with Julia and married her in New York City in June 1844.
Tyler had been elected Vice President in 1840 under William Henry Harrison and became President in April 1841 when Harrison died after only a month in office. Weakened in a dispute over tariff bills with his own Whig Party, Tyler withdrew from the 1844 presidential election.
 The Tylers lived at their James River estate, Sherwood Forest, in Virginia. After 1852, Juliana Gardiner lived in the Staten Island house, called Castleton Hill. Tyler was generally identified with pro-slavery, pro-Southern policies -- he had about 70 slaves at Sherwood Forest.
In 1853 The New York Herald and other papers carried an article by Julia Tyler defending slavery, which aroused much comment. She said that the Southern slave "lives sumptuously" compared to workers in modern industrial economies. She was also an intimate of Jefferson Davis and his wife, Varina.
 AT least as early as 1857 Julia and John Tyler visited Juliana Gardiner at Staten Island, and when the former President died in 1862, Julia crossed Civil War battle lines to live at the Staten Island estate, despite her own Southern sympathies.
On Staten Island, Julia Tyler worked for the release of Southern prisoners, for the relief of occupied Southern cities and for various peace efforts.
 Julia Tyler went back and forth to her Virginia estate with a regularity that Northern patriots found suspicious. Her Southern sympathies brought conflict to the house, where she often violently quarreled with her uncle, David Lyon Gardiner, who was finally sent away by Juliana Gardiner, his sister.
During this time Julia Tyler was also trying to keep up Sherwood Forest, look after other children in the family, and come up with a way to live in the safety of her mother's house while safeguarding her teen-age sons, David and John, who were in military service -- on the Confederate side.
 In April 1865, just hours after Lincoln's assassination, three Staten Islanders forced their way into the house to retrieve and destroy what one claimed in a letter in The New York Herald was a Confederate flag, describing Julia Tyler as the "widow of the deceased rebel ex-President."
In a letter to The New York Mail, Julia Tyler denounced the "outrage committed at my house" and said the flag was only an ornamental bunting, without political significance.
 A June 1, 1865, census recorded Julia Tyler in the house with five of her children, as well as a tutor, an Irish-born coachman and two English-born servants. Juliana Gardiner died in 1868, and Julia got the Staten Island house after a venomous court fight with David Lyon Gardiner.
 Her lawyer in the litigation, William M. Evarts, was also a family friend and lent her money, taking the house as security. Julia Tyler left New York in 1871 for Washington and then Virginia, and later in the decade Evarts, who was also prominent in politics, took ownership of the house, although it is not clear if he lived there.
 IN the 1880's and 1890's the house was occupied by Douglas M. A. Brown, a wallpaper manufacturer, and in 1898 the land was divided into 157 building lots styled as "Tyler Park" in anticipation of a public auction to be accompanied by music and lunch. Included in the sale was to be the "fine house" occupied "by President Tyler," although it appears he was never more than an intermittent seasonal guest.
 After 1900 the house and most of the lots were purchased by Thaddeus J. Carlin; the 1920 census shows him in occupancy with an English servant and his 15-year-old son, Arthur. Arthur Carlin's granddaughter, Arlene Gillen McGinley, says that when her mother, Arlene Carlin, married Arthur Gillen, "the house was so large they asked the Gillens to move in with them."
The family gradually sold off the surrounding lots, and now the grand house is surrounded by low ranch houses, like Gulliver encircled by Lilliputians.
 Mrs. McGinley moved out herself when she married Terrance McGinley in 1977, but now that Mr. and Mrs. Gillen are aging, she and Mr. McGinley have purchased the Gardiner-Tyler house from them and are adding a side wing in complementary style, designed by the architect Timothy Boyland, working with the preservation consultant Mary Dierickx. Mrs. McGinley, her husband and their three children are planning to move in next month.
 The new wing will be accessible for people with disabilities, to make living there easier for her parents, and will also permit her older brother, Kevin, to visit more frequently -- he has multiple sclerosis and lives in a nursing home.
"When people hear I'm moving into that house they say, 'My gosh, that's a mansion,' " and then I have to tell them I grew up in it," Mrs. McGinley says. "I'm the fourth generation here, and my children, God willing, will live here in the future also."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Streetscapes column on June 20, about the Gardiner-Tyler house on Staten Island, misstated the given name of a recent owner. He is Martin Gillen, not Arthur.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Julia Gardiner Tyler, (Virginia State Library) crossed Civil War battle lines in 1862 to live in mother's Staten Island home. (Staten Island Institute of Arts & Sciences) A side wing is now being added. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND INSTITUTE OF ARTS & SCIENCES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATEN ISLAND INSTITUTE OF ARTS & SCIENCES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. CIVIL WAR (90%); SLAVERY (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: JULIA TYLER (92%); JULIA GARDINER TYLER (92%); JULIANA GARDINER (79%); JULIANA GARDINER JULIA GARDINER (72%); JOHN TYLER (59%); DAVID LYON GARDINER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



440 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Media;
Old Formula For a Magazine On Fashion Is Out of Style

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI

 BODY:
If the executives at Hearst Magazines wanted to place an ad in the newspaper for the position of editor in chief of Harper's Bazaar, it might read something like this:
"Wanted: An editor with enough attitude to revitalize a magazine that was once a solid No. 2 in the field and is now wavering between No. 3 and 4; a woman (probably) who is willing to make close to $1 million a year and has the ability to answer the following question: Do American women -- and the advertisers that cater to them -- care about fashion anymore?" 
 This week, Cathleen P. Black, the president of Hearst Magazines, is expected to announce which lucky contestant will win the coveted opportunity to replace the late Elizabeth Tilberis as top editor of Harper's Bazaar. While a half-dozen names are being mentioned, executives of Hearst are mostly staying silent. (One who ventured to speak off the record would do so only after asking if a reporter was sure her phone lines were not bugged.)
But whoever takes the helm will have to contend not only with the problems at Harper's Bazaar -- dwindling advertising pages, snazzy competition and sluggish growth in fashion advertising -- but with the potential end of an era for the high-fashion glossy, as magazines that combine style and life style -- like In Style, published by Time Inc., a unit of Time Warner -- come to dominate the marketplace.
After a recession in Asian markets late last year, manufacturers of high-end apparel and makers of luxury goods, like Gucci, suffered some losses, and that translated into lower budgets for fashion magazine advertising. (These losses came on the heels of a decline the previous year; in the category of ready-to-wear clothing, manufacturers spent $539 million in magazine advertising in 1997 but only $510 million in 1998, the first dip after a precipitous rise during the previous five years.)
Other categories remained strong. The four magazines in the United States that focus on women's fashion -- Vogue, Elle, W and Harper's Bazaar -- show relatively healthy advertising figures, encompassing all categories, for this year. Harper's Bazaar was the least sprightly of the four, with just a 2 percent increase in overall advertising revenue for January through May, compared with the period a year earlier. Vogue and W are both up 13 percent, and Elle is up 3 percent, according to the Publishers Information Bureau. By contrast, In Style is up 60 percent. But much of this year's rise can be credited to the fact that the fashion titles have followed the lead of magazines like In Style and brought in new categories of advertising, said Roberta Garfinkle, the director of print media at McCann-Erickson, a unit of Interpublic Group.
"If you're going to build your business, you're going to have go beyond the traditional advertisers in fashion and bring in new ones," Ms. Garfinkle said. "Is fashion the staple it used to be? I don't know. They're looking at automotive, at consumer electronics. If Harper's Bazaar becomes more mainstream, does it make them a better candidate for different kinds of advertising, more mass-market kinds of advertising? Or does it stay where it is, stay focused on the creme de la creme, the high-end couture, and limit themselves? That's a business decision that Cathie Black has to make."
Elle, which is published by Hachette-Filipacchi Magazines, a unit of Lagardere Group, is taking a particularly aggressive -- and increasingly common -- approach: it is starting a magazine to bring new and less frequent advertisers into the fold. This November, Elle will arrive in subscribers' mailboxes bundled with a new publication, Elle's Ultimate Road Trip, a luxury travel magazine that is being planned as a quarterly. Intended to attract advertisers in categories like luxury goods, culinary, hotels, automotive and high technology, Elle's Ultimate Road Trip has already signed up Gucci, Cartier and Chopard, the watch manufacturer.
The magazine's mission, said Elaina Richardson, the editor in chief of Elle, is to present women with what she called "a life style approach" to fashion. "It's about life style, and a sense of the good life, and this is what fashion is about now," she said. "I think we spend as much time now thinking about the thread count of our sheets as the ply of our cashmere. Fashion to women now is what's going on in clothes, but also what company or designer is making furniture, what designer is involved in a hotel. The world of fashion is connected to travel and resorts and furnishings, and it's a much bigger universe than it once was."
Among the categories that have grown most energetically in the pages of magazines this year, according to figures released this month by the Publishers Information Bureau, are technology, up 15 percent in advertising pages, home furnishings and supplies, up 14 percent, and travel, up 13 percent. Apparel has remained flat at 1.7 percent.
Advertisers, in the meantime, wait to see who will take the helm at Harper's Bazaar and how that person will shape the magazine. For much of its 132-year history, Harper's Bazaar has been strictly devoted to fashion, but in the last two years it has had more articles on other topics.
Vogue tends to be more celebrity-oriented: while Harper's Bazaar recently featured an article about houses designed by the architect Richard Neutra in Los Angeles, Vogue ran a spread on Oscar de la Renta's vacation hacienda. W, too, covers the high-living celebrity life, as well as highlighting its avant-garde photography (a recent spread showed a macho-looking Brad Pitt holding a furry rabbit) and dozens of pages of society news at the front of the magazine. Elle maintains the most middlebrow approach, featuring color-splashed fashion spreads and a particularly bawdy advice columnist.
But the success of life style magazines points to a serious issue: Do American women want to read fashion magazines? Nancy Etcoff, a psychologist at the Harvard Medical School and the author of "Survival of the Prettiest: The Science of Beauty" (Doubleday), said that American women may have grown fashion fatigued.
"The fashion magazines are about fulfilling fantasy, and they are an art form -- they are theatrical," she said. "We will always have a longing for that kind of beauty and theatricality, but I think right now, fashion magazines no longer present the most popular images, and part of the problem was that there was such a focus on the supermodel as an object and less a focus on personality. Perhaps they need to rethink their approach to women as more rounded personalities."
Ms. Richardson of Elle said: "A friend of mine used to tell me that 10, 15 years ago, she used to sit at the beach at the end of the summer and she and her friends would flip through the September magazines and do their fall clothes shopping. Now what woman has time to do that? She's faxing her office, or taking care of the kids. I don't know if she has that time or inclination anymore. I don't know if women even have time to sit on the beach."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Four Voices Of Fashion"
These leading magazines are trying to reflect the American woman's changing tastes in their own ways.
 
Vogue
PUBLISHER -- Conde Nastublications
EDITOR IN CHIEF -- Anna Wintour
AVG. MONTHLY CIRCULATION* -- 1,211,771
1998 ADVERTISING PAGES -- 2,681
DESCRIPTION -- Positions itself as the last word on mainstream and couture fashion
 
Elle
PUBLISHER -- Hachette-Filipacchi Magazines
EDITOR IN CHIEF -- Elaina Richardson
AVG. MONTHLY CIRCULATION* -- 974,819
1998 ADVERTISING PAGES -- 2,068
DESCRIPTION -- Mixes fashion spreads with diet articles and even a political profile or two
 
W
PUBLISHER -- Fairchild Publications
EDITOR IN CHIEF -- Patrick J. McCarthy+
AVG. MONTHLY CIRCULATION* -- 410,943
1998 ADVERTISING PAGES -- 2,005
DESCRIPTION -- Is required reading for the fashion trade crowd; also has design coverage
 
Harper's Bazaar
PUBLISHER -- Hearst Magazines
EDITOR IN CHIEF -- Karin Upton Baker++
AVG. MONTHLY CIRCULATION* -- 732,572
1998 ADVERTISING PAGES -- 1,542
DESCRIPTION -- Defined by minimalist design and stark photography
 
*Six months ended December
+Editorial director
++Acting
 
(Sources: Audit Bureau of Circulations; Publishers Information Bureau)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (X.HRS); HARPER'S BAZAAR (MAGAZINE) HEARST CORP (96%); TIME INC (84%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (51%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEARST CORP (X.HRS); HARPER'S BAZAAR (MAGAZINE) AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND MAGAZINES; FASHIONS; WOMEN MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); LUXURY GOODS (86%); APPAREL MFG (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); BUDGETS (76%); WOMEN (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (74%); READY TO WEAR (69%); 

PERSON: CATHLEEN BLACK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999



441 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Networks Deliver Smorgasbord to Fill Order for Young Viewers

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Remember the episode of "The Twilight Zone" when a horrified woman discovered that a book written by space visitors called "To Serve Man" was actually a cookbook? Well, a book about the 1999-2000 season for the broadcast television networks could be titled "To Serve Youth."
But now Madison Avenue is wondering whether that book will be a best seller or a recipe for failure. 
 For years, agencies and advertisers have exhorted broadcast TV to appeal to younger viewers -- 12 to 24, 18 to 34, 18 to 49 -- because they are deemed more desirable consumers than their older counterparts: more willing to spend, to try new products, to switch brands. Besides, younger consumers, particularly teen-age and 20-something males, watch less television, making those who do watch much more valuable to marketers.
And the "dot com" advertisers pitching computers, Web sites and other high-technology products and services, whose dollars are beginning to flood into TV, are licking their chops over the millions of wired consumers in Generations X and Y.
"Everyone's looking for young eyeballs," said Jamie Kellner, president of the WB network in Burbank, Calif., which is owned by Time Warner and the Tribune Company and is enjoying strong gains in ad revenue by delivering marketers audiences aged 12 to 24.
So broadcasters are racing to add programs aimed at younger viewers to their prime-time schedules for the coming season. By one count, 18 of 37 new series on the six broadcast networks will look at the world through youth-colored glasses, joining more than a dozen returning series with similar skews.
Among the newcomers: "Freaks and Geeks" on NBC, "Manchester Prep" and "Ryan Caulfield" on the Fox Broadcasting Company and "Snoops" and "Then Came You" on Walt Disney's ABC, as well as more youthful fare for WB like "Angel," "Roswell" and "Popular." UPN, owned by Viacom, will appeal to young males with a wrestling show called "WWF Smackdown!" and a Friday movie called "Blockbuster Video's Shockwave Cinema."
Even CBS, the network first in older viewers, is seeking to climb down the demographic ladder a couple of rungs, pairing younger and older cast members in new series like "Judging Amy."
But after all those entreaties to broadcasters to think young, some agency executives worry that the pendulum may be swinging too far too fast in one direction.
"It's too much of the same thing," said Paul Schulman, president of Schulman/Advanswers NY, a media services agency in New York owned by the Omnicom Group. "People are copying the WB."
A primary concern is that the broadcast networks will be diverted from an audience they ought to be pursuing: the aging baby boomers, the 76 million consumers born from 1946 to 1964 whose incomes for the most part dwarf those of younger viewers.
"Being associated with youth is a positive because people like to envision themselves as young, virile, active," said Stacey Lynn Koerner, vice president for broadcast television research at TN Media in New York, the media services arm of True North Communications. "That's our American culture. And advertisers like to be in environments where there's a perception that positive things are going on.
"But there is no reason to believe older people are less willing to try new things," she added. "And there are different levels to it. I might be 15 and want to do what my friends do. I might be 45 and want the new Mercedes my neighbor has."
The executives also warn that the youth movement may conflict with the traditional mission of broadcast TV: to reach the widest audiences possible.
"A broadcaster is exactly that, a 'broad-caster,' " Ms. Koerner said, adding: "Broadcasters can't narrow themselves to one audience and remain viable. They have to in some sense be all things to all people."
If broadcasters narrow their focus to fixate on youth, according to this school of thought, they run the risk of becoming clones of cable networks, which most commonly aim their programming at smaller, specific targets. That would then weaken the strongest argument for advertising on broadcast TV.
Broadcasting "doesn't exclude," said Bob Igiel, president for the broadcast division of the Media Edge in New York, the media services arm of Young & Rubicam Inc. "When you turn on the TV, a sign doesn't come on saying 'You're 50 and you can't watch this.' "
The rush to satisfy young viewers, the critics fret, may also exacerbate the longstanding problem the broadcast networks confront: declining ratings. Shows that seemingly exclude older viewers may send them away to alternative fare, thereby further eroding audiences.
"If two networks of six focus on youth, that's fine," said Peter Chrisanthopoulos, president for broadcast and programming in the United States at the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide agency in New York, a unit of WPP Group P.L.C., "because if viewers have enough choices, they don't always have to go to cable. "If more than two do it," he added, "they start to cannibalize one another and lose more viewers to cable."
Not surprisingly, the network that most ardently believes in the puissance of older consumers is CBS, which has the most older viewers.
"There's no strong economic reason for Madison Avenue's fascination with the young audience," said David F. Poltrack, executive vice president for research and planning at CBS Television in New York. "I've always called this the programmer's dilemma, pursuing the segment of the audience for which there is greatest competition, which watches less TV over all, because of Madison Avenue's obsession. "As the baby boomers move into an older age group," he added, "Madison Avenue will become increasingly aware that's where the money is."
The other networks say they are becoming more youth-centric simply to deliver what advertisers and agencies request.
"We're not different from any other business with a market-share war going on," said Randy Falco, president of the NBC-TV Network unit of NBC in New York, part of the General Electric Company.
So while broadcast TV is "still the only place you can reach the mass audience," he added, if "the advertising community cares about 18 to 49," those are the viewers who will receive special attention.
And "good television is about taking chances, trying to capture lightning in a bottle," Mr. Falco said. "With 'Freaks and Geeks,' we will take a chance, do something different. Every once in a while, you hit on something." That new series is about high school life in the 1980's
At Fox, a unit of the News Corporation, the focus has been on viewers 18 to 34; the network finished first in that age group for the 1998-99 season and second behind NBC in viewers 18 to 49.
"We attract a higher percentage of light television viewers, which makes our audience more valuable because it's more difficult to reach," said Jon Nesvig, president for sales at Fox in New York. "And that correlates with youth."
Even so, "reaching the largest possible audience is still important," he added, and Fox is looking to viewers 12 to 34 as well as 25 to 54 for potential audience gains.
"Ratings erosion is a major concern," Mr. Nesvig said, "but in general the biggest issue is better programs. You still see the audiences respond on a given night if there are good programs and we get them to the set. It's still, 'The play's the thing.' "
Come fall, Madison Avenue will be watching the broadcast ratings as closely as teen-agers watch "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" or "Dawson's Creek" on WB.
"For those of us representing advertisers," said Mr. Chrisanthopoulos at Ogilvy & Mather, "it's good if a network has a focus, a mission, and tries to fulfill its goals by focusing on the audiences it desires.
"The youth focus is good as long as they all don't do it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Fox network hopes to attract young viewers with "Manchester Prep." (Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (53%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (81%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); BB LIQUIDATING INC (81%); WALT DISNEY CO (53%); VIACOM INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; CHILDREN AND FAMILIES TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); WRITERS (90%); YOUTH MARKET (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); TEENS MARKET (76%); GENERATION X (75%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (71%); APPEALS (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (65%); FAMILY (64%); 

PERSON: STACEY LYNN KOERNER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999



442 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Moscow Journal;
Drive-In Offers Cabbage and Promises of Popcorn

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 20

 BODY:
It is true that the men behind the first and only drive-in movie in Russia overlooked a few things, such as telling the audience that films are best viewed with headlights off. Also, popcorn. Somehow, a drive-in isn't quite the same munching on cabbage pie.
But those are nits. With a hastily built 56-by-30-foot screen and a projection booth mounted on stilts, three Moscow entrepreneurs staged a two-night dry run this weekend of the quintessentially American motion picture experience, and appeared to have a hit on their hands. 
 Indeed, once the sun set this weekend -- that is, in this northern season of bright summer solstice nights, at about 11:20 P.M. -- the Moscow Kinodrome could well have been the Kenwood in Louisville or the Moonlight in Pittsburgh instead of what it was: a deserted parking lot, hard by an equally deserted velodrome built for the 1980 Olympics.
"It's a good thing to have, just to relax," said 30-year-old Igor Martinov as he stood by his red Nissan, downing beers and smoking L&M's. "And if you have a good car with shaded windows," he grinned, "it's a very good thing for young kids to have."
Drive-ins may be a dying breed in the United States, where their number has shrunk to about 500 from 10 times that at the peak of their popularity. But the story may well be different in Moscow, a place desperately short of theaters and where the economics of moviegoing is completely different.
While most American drive-ins aim for the teen-age crowd or the family seeking a cheap night out, the backers of the Kinodrome have their sights on a slightly older, more upscale crowd. When it reopens -- the theater is in hiatus after its two-night premiere -- it will cost 195 rubles per person, or $8, for a movie and a light meal.
While the Olympic complex has seen better days, the drive-in is in one of the city's finer neighborhoods, a mile from President Boris N. Yeltsin's city apartment and not far from clusters of luxury high-rise apartments.
Aleksandr Volkov, who came up with the idea after seeing drive-ins in Hungary and Germany, said in an interview that the backers decided to expand on one partner's successful experience running 16 nightclubs.
"It's based on the idea that in Moscow in the summertime, a great number of people are living the night life," he said, "and secondly, that Moscovites love to watch films. We found that there are a great number of people who haunt these clubs during the night and prefer to sit not inside, but outside. They ask to move their tables to the open."
And so the Kinodrome sports an outdoor cafe at the rear of the parking lot, where filmgoers can buy apple, mushroom and cabbage pies, fruit-stuffed pirozhki, or pastries, American soft drinks, beer and -- soon -- vodka.
The drive-in itself is a decidedly makeshift affair. The parking lot, equipped with green gates to keep freeloaders out, holds only 150 cars and lacks a ticket booth. The screen is anything but oversized, and the cramped projection room inexplicably flies a skull-and-crossbones and is draped in camouflage netting.
Inside, the two water-cooled projectors were salvaged from the defunct October Theater, which is being gutted and turned into a multiscreen cineplex. As there are no water lines running to the lot, the projectionists' great fear -- unrealized, fortunately -- was that the evenings' feature films would catch fire.
Critics might have called that no great loss. Although the Kinodrome promises the best in Russian and foreign film, the main events Thursday and Friday were an American sci-fi potboiler, "Virus," and one of the Mel Gibson vehicles, "Lethal Weapon 4."
But the premiere audiences, lured by free tickets and the novelty of it all, didn't seem to care. College girls and boys strolled up and down the rows of obediently lined-up Audis, Mustangs and other imported cars, looking for each other. In one expensive-looking sport utility vehicle, Andrei Bezlepkin, his wife and their two children said they were there strictly on a lark.
His daughter Julia, 15, had seen three of the Lethal Weapon films, but Dad was clueless. "I think it's something like Weapons Number Four," he said when asked about the night's entertainment.
On the road by the theater, dozens more cars -- including one police cruiser -- squeezed onto the gravel shoulder on Friday night seeking their own free view. Still more people simply walked in and squatted on the pavement, straining to catch the sound track broadcast from the projection booth to car radios.
There have been some glitches. At the first showing on Thursday, drivers in the front row had to be told to switch off their headlights. Some who came on motorcycles or in cars without radios were disappointed to find that they were watching a silent movie. One walk-in, clearly there more for the beer than the movie, rose in the middle of one presentation to demand that the sound be turned up.
Nor is it a seamlessly American experience. For one thing, the brief Russian summer nights mean that the first showing doesn't end until close to 1 A.M., and the second finishes around first light. The viewing season is also brief: the Kinodrome will close for the winter in October, a projectionist said, because the oil in the projectors freezes.
Still, at least one oversight is about to be remedied. When the Kinodrome reopens later this month, Mr. Volkov said, it will serve popcorn.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Entrepreneurs opened Moscow's first drive-in movie, the Kinodrome, over the weekend in a hastily-converted parking lot, promising the best in foreign films and showing "Lethal Weapon 4" and "Virus." Even at $8 a person for the movie and a light meal of pirozhki or cabbage pie, no one complained. (Photographs by Jacqueline Mia Foster for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); HUNGARY (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); GERMANY (51%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: MOSCOW KINODROME (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); HUNGARY (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); GERMANY (51%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; DRIVE-IN THEATERS MOVIE THEATERS (78%); OLYMPICS (76%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (74%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); DRINKING PLACES (58%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999



443 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Al Gore Turns the Volume Way, Way Up

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS 

 BODY:
Al Gore has been trying to be more exciting on the stump -- trying so hard that if he keeps it up, he'll rupture his vocal cords before the New Hampshire primary.
The new Al Gore yells quite a lot. Caught between Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, two natural campaigners, the Vice President is trying to make up in decibels what he lacks in spontaneity. "I am not satisfied! INDEED I AM RESTLESS!" he cried in New York, announcing his candidacy for President with a list of promises about what he would do to move the country TOWARD AMERICA'S NEW HORIZONS, a goal that will involve eliminating EVERY LAST DIME OF WASTE, fighting GLOBAL WARMING and making our public schools THE FINEST AND BEST IN THE ENTIRE WORLD. 
 This is our fault. We have been carping about how boring Al Gore is, and the poor man is all but howling at the moon in an effort to sound more compelling. We are being forced to watch him go through an enormous effort to look effortless, and it is as discomfiting as looking at the underside of a swan swimming on the lake. Voters are not going to elect a President who makes them feel like nervous parents at the second-grade class play. Mr. Gore has to give up this futile attempt to become Kennedyesque and embrace the boredom.
Let Gore be Gore! Where is it written that the American people want a fun guy for President? Most of our chief executives were not people you would necessarily want to pal around with. No one ever accused George Washington of being the life of the party. "Today I dined with the president, and as usual the company was as grave as if at a funeral," reported one of his supporters.
Certainly it is a disadvantage to have to campaign in the age of mass media when the only TV star you resemble is Howdy Doody. But history shows that when America is in a period of economic boom, the public is comfortable having someone in the White House who is more stolid than the stock market. During the Roaring Twenties, the electorate fell in love with Calvin Coolidge, a monosyllabic politician who barely had the energy to get out of bed in the morning. (Coolidge was also, as far as we know, the first Vice President to serve while his boss was having sex with a woman not his wife in a room just off the Oval Office. He never felt compelled to point out that this was outrageous.)
Unlike Coolidge, Al Gore is an energetic politician, and you only have to listen to his speeches to know that there will probably be A LOT OF INITIATIVES in a Gore administration. Even though George Bush has been gloriously unspecific about his own agenda, it is already easy to see that the two front-runners for the Presidential nominations have very different outlooks. Mr. Gore, for all his worries about BUREAUCRATIC EXCESS, is a government activist, and Mr. Bush, for all his talk about being a compassionate conservative, does not seem to really have many new initiatives in mind. The best way to describe the difference between them so far is that Mr. Gore promises to make "high-quality preschool available to EVERY CHILD IN EVERY FAMILY" and Mr. Bush promises to get the Head Start classes to teach phonics.
The first time I saw Al Gore, he was running in the New York Democratic Presidential primary in 1988, a contest the Gore people thought they had wrapped up when they won the endorsement of Mayor Ed Koch. But Mr. Koch was in full-throttle third-term hysteria, having insulted or alienated almost every conceivable section of the city population. The Mayor led Mr. Gore around like a spaniel, and at almost every stop the Tennessee Senator was asked to apologize for something Mr. Koch had said or done to somebody. During that campaign Mr. Gore did not look so much stiff as numb, as if he had been knocked over the head with a bat.
The second time I saw Mr. Gore was when he returned to Manhattan for an environmental conference. He was happy as a clam, discussing dire predictions of receding shores and expanding populations. Reading the text of his remarks would probably have been pretty boring then, too. But in person, Mr. Gore was utterly at ease with himself and his audience. Even his hair looked less stiff.
Bob Olivari, who worked for Mr. Gore in that fatal 1988 primary, claims his candidate was at his best in Staten Island, the home of the nation's largest landfill, where people were actually interested in hearing him talk about solid waste. "He had a very good first day and then it went downhill," recalled Mr. Olivari last week, at a fund-raising cocktail party for Mr. Gore in Manhattan. "Maybe he should just try being who he is and things will work out."
Seize the moment, Mr. Gore. Dare to be dull. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (54%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); COLLINS, GAIL AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999



444 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Pike Reappear, and a California City Is on Guard

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORTOLA, Calif.

 BODY:
The latest bad news from Lake Davis has an all too familiar ring to it.
In the fall of 1997, the California Fish and Game Department, fresh out of ideas for ridding Lake Davis of the northern pike that for years threatened the state's crucial salmon and trout populations miles downstream, dumped more than 60,000 pounds of poisons into the lake. 
 The lake treatment, called "the poisoning" by residents of this small city in the Sierra Nevadas, was good for the state's fishing industry but disastrous for Portola, killing the pike but also eliminating one of Portola's sources of drinking water and jeopardizing its economy, dependent on tourism. The poisons, including the insecticide rotenone, killed the trout that drew tourists.
The Plumas County Supervisor, Fran Roudebush, said the poisoning cost the city and the county more than $15 million in lost tourism revenue.
Now, with the poisons dissipated, the lake restocked with trout and the region once more packed with tourists eager to fish, pike have again been spotted in Lake Davis.
Frustration and dread are back too, settling like a fog on Portola. The fear is that the state will again shut down Lake Davis and strangle the city's economy, just when Portola was showing signs of renewal and people were starting to trust the lake as a water supply.
Though officials are not yet suggesting that the lake will have to be treated with poisons again, residents are not waiting to see whether that happens.
Town meetings that include briefings on developments at Lake Davis have been packed. And, at the request of the Fish and Game Department, residents are forming an advisory group that will include department and city officials.
"This is not about a fish," Jim Murphy, Portola's City Administrator, said at a recent meeting of residents and fish and game officials. "This is about a water supply. This is about the ability of a community to grow."
Everyone still remembers the rancor that marked the poisoning, when protesters, including the man who would become Mayor two years later, were arrested after chaining themselves to a buoy in the middle of the lake.
With the railroad and logging industries that made Portola run nearly dead now, the city gains most of its revenue from tourists who come for the prime fishing in Lake Davis.
So though many residents are exasperated by the recent pike discovery, the town is officially accepting the Fish and Game Department's offer to work together.
In one sense, the city has no choice: the state has final jurisdiction over its lakes and the tributaries and rivers that flow out of them. These waterways are home to salmon and steelhead trout that bring California a billion dollars in revenue every year, Supervisor Roudebush said, and could be decimated should pike -- a razor-toothed predator known to eat snakes, rats and ducklings -- begin to live and breed in them.
Fish and game officials are using DNA tests to determine whether three fish caught at the end of May, one of which was carrying eggs that would spawn next spring, survived the chemical dump or were put in the lake by fishermen who enjoy the difficult catch and meaty taste.
But officials are sure that regardless, pike, which are native to cold waters in the Midwest, were at one time illegally introduced to Lake Davis.
They are also determined to find out who did it and when. (Pike were first found in Lake Davis in 1994.) For the last month, game wardens have been conducting an extensive search for leads into what officials call a crime of eco-terrorism.
The state and city have put up a $30,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of people responsible for planting pike in Lake Davis.
Since the latest pike were caught, more than 30 game wardens have been dispatched to knock on doors here, search catches and survey those who fish.
Other fish and game officials in Sacramento are contacting fisheries across the nation that sell pike and combing Internet chat rooms that specialize in fishing, looking for people bragging about catching pike in California.
"There are people out there who want to see pike in Lake Davis," said Steve Martarano, an information officer with the department.
Leads have turned up nothing; the closest officials came was searching a man's house after he took responsibility on a Reno radio station for planting the pike. Patrick Foy, a fish and game spokesman, said the caller had lied on the air to get attention.
Of course, the greatest concern to residents here is whether there are more pike in Lake Davis and, if so, whether the painful memories of the poisoning will have to be relived.
Local officials have gone on "electro-fishing" tours of the lake, in which fish and game officers temporarily stun fish in a small area with electric shocks and then check the surface for pike.
Options short of poisoning the lake, should more pike be found, include draining it, which would also affect tourism but would be easier to recover from, or putting strong screens or sharp gates over the lake's dam, which officials hope would prevent any pike from going downstream.
Though the focus is on the future of Lake Davis and Portola, residents here recognize the need to eliminate pike from the state.
People here also say they are dealing with an entirely new Fish and Game Department this time around.
"Last time, fish and game stepped on our throats and told us what to do," said Terri Nacar, an editor of The Portola Reporter, who sharply criticized the department in print in 1997. "This time they have a totally different attitude."
For now, residents take heart in the fact that the lake is full of fish and that even at midmorning on a weekday, a parking lot by one of the its ramps was packed with pickup trucks towing boat trailers.
"We're doing excellent, excellent, up here at Lake Davis," said Lloyd Lambeth, who works at the Gold Rush Sporting Goods Store.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of Portola, Calif., are worried about a possible return of northern pike to Lake Davis, threatening the tourism built on fishing for trout like this one. In 1997, the state dumped poisons into the lake to kill the pike and later restocked the lake with trout. Bob Orange, a warden with the California Fish and Game Department, examining a fish caught by Dave Billsbury on Lake Davis last month. He looked for signs of bites, which would be evidence of pike. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: GAME DEPARTMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GAME DEPARTMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTOLA (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; LAKE DAVIS (CALIF); UNITED STATES (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, SPORT; TROUT; PIKE (FISH); SALMON; POISONING AND POISONS; VANDALISM; WATER TOURISM (90%); POISONINGS (90%); FISHES (90%); LAKES (90%); RIVERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIES (76%); WATER QUALITY (74%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); FINFISH FISHING (72%); INSECTICIDES (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); MAYORS (64%); VANDALISM (59%); ARRESTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999



445 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Just Not You

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
"Somebody's going to win the lottery," reads an ad from a public-spirited corporation, "Just not you."
That's right. If any class of gamblers qualifies as super-suckers, it's the pack of dreamers who believe what their state governments tell them about a pot of gold at the end of the numbers rainbow. 
 Media that benefit from state lottery advertising hype the one winner (not you) in a million. They ignore the bad news of all the others who blow the bread money, or feed their compulsive-gambling habit, on the worst odds of any betting in America.
 Ever since the immoralists of New Hampshire introduced a state lottery in 1964, followed quickly by New York in 1966, pusillanimous politicians have been ripping off their constituents with this "painless taxation." Now 37 states are imitating the banana republics.
The profits go to education, the gambling governors claim, as they substitute lottery money for other state education aid in a classic bait-and-switch. It's the only tax increase that conservatives support -- from zero to $43 billion in one generation -- and is the only regressive tax embraced by liberals.
The bipartisan National Gambling Impact Study Commission has issued its report. At the start, members fought over whether to call gambling "gaming," but in the end, agreement on more important matters was found: 15 million Americans are "problem gamblers." The Internet is hooking teen-agers on games of chance. "Convenience gambling" with video poker terminals everywhere is a training ground for lifelong gambling. (Even the kid in the new "Star Wars" is taught to gamble.)
After a decade of feckless harangues in this space, I have accepted reality: at least half the population enjoys betting. So if you want to feed quarters for hours on end to one-armed bandits in Las Vegas, or go broke on jackpot.com, that's your business.
But when the state becomes croupier, that's everybody's business.
The most telling part of the wake-up call is the criticism of lotteries. They are "the most widespread form of gambling in the United States." State governments have "irresponsibly intruded gambling into society on a massive scale," says the commission report, "through such measures as incessant advertising and the ubiquitous placement of lottery machines in neighborhood stores."
And they're a lousy bet. "Lotteries bring out the worst in politicians," noted Richard Leone, commissioner from New Jersey. "They are heavily and misleadingly advertised; they pay back to bettors the smallest share of the take of any legal game . . . yet lotteries have proven to be catnip for elected officials who fear taxation."
Where does any state come off urging its citizens to spend their hard-earned income or welfare checks unwisely? Who is your governor to tell you to ignore your economic self-interest and take a little flier with him or her? Government is not a game, nor should it be a casino empowered to declare itself a monopoly so it can make a profit by stimulating public avarice.
State lotteries should reduce their sales dependence on low-income, less-educated gamblers, the commission recommends, and limit advertising and sales outlets in poor neighborhoods. But that's precisely where the most business is. And because states advertise their lotteries, the Supreme Court strikes down state restrictions on advertising any gambling.
Thus does the lottery tail now wag the public-policy dog. To make a bigger profit, state-sponsored gambling must sell harder to the poor and the addicted. Your state legislator is facing the same moral conflict as the seller of tobacco and hard liquor and violent movies: trying to make what's bad for you look good to you. The difference is that the state does not permit competition in its own numbers racket.
The state belongs in the business of protecting and educating the public, not in the profitable dodge of bilking the public. Residents of Nevada have their law legalizing prostitution, but do not expect their state to run monopoly brothels advertised on local television with a small portion of the profit supposedly going to sex education.
O.K., all you family-values, faith-based types running for President and governor and whatnot. Where do you stand on state-sponsored gambling? How about a national lottery guessing the number of eligible voters not casting their ballots because they're turned off by political hypocrisy? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES; STATES (US); GAMBLING LOTTERIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GAMING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POKER (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); TAX LAW (73%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (71%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999



446 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: BLUEPRINT;
Reform Urged as Condition For Yugoslavia to Get Aid

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany, June 20

 BODY:
Leaders of the seven wealthiest nations and Russia outlined a plan today for ending eight years of war in the Balkans through a vast program of aid and political support, but said Yugoslavia must undertake "democratic and economic reforms" to take part.
At the end of a three-day summit meeting, the leaders of Britain, France and Germany said that in their view, democratic reform in Yugoslavia would have to involve the departure of President Slobodan Milosevic, but in deference to Russia no explicit reference to him was included in the final statement. 
 President Clinton advocated a meeting of Western and regional leaders in the Balkans in the next few months and said he would attend. Such a meeting, unprecedented since Yugoslavia began to unravel in violence in 1991, would show a commitment to draw the Balkans into the West and highlight Mr. Milosevic's isolation, Western officials said. "The President got agreement from the leaders that there should be a Balkan conference, in the Balkans, sometime in the not-too-distant future," said Samuel R. Berger, the White House national security adviser.
The exact amounts involved in Balkan reconstruction are still vague. The European Union has pledged $500 million a year for the next three years for Kosovo alone; Western officials say as much as $30 billion over the next five years may be needed for the region as a whole.
President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, looking puffy and uncertain on his feet, joined the other leaders today for the concluding hours of the summit meeting and then talked for an hour with President Clinton.
In an effort to cast the encounter with Mr. Yeltsin in positive terms, Western leaders including Mr. Clinton avoided reference to contentious issues such as what sort of aid -- if any -- should be given to Serbia and what sort of orders were givento the Russian troops who raced to the airport in Pristina earlier this month.
As a result, there were no visible disagreements, and the meeting of the leaders of the United States, Britain, Germany, France, Canada, Italy, Japan and Russia ended about an hour earlier than expected.
The positive, sometimes patently relieved tone of the meeting seemed to reflect a growing conviction that the ethnic wars in the region that have left more than 200,000 people dead and forced millions of people from their homes may at last have exhausted themselves.
The final statement called for "the creation of a democratic, multi-ethnic Kosovo." It added: "The return of refugees and displaced persons to their homes and the assurance of security for all persons including Serb and all other minorities in Kosovo will be high priorities of the international community."
Many Serbs, afraid of reprisals from returning Kosovo Albanians, have fled since the 11-week war ended. Serbian authorities arenow urging them to go back, and several hundred reportedly did so today.
The statement said the eight countries would "fully cooperate with the work of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia," which indicted Mr. Milosevic last month. But it made no reference to the acts of Serbian forces in Kosovo during the war.
Gerhard Schroder, the German Chancellor, said of Serbia that, "Reconstruction aid, reestablishment of economic structures and reincorporation into Europe need democratization, and that is not possible with Mr. Milosevic."
But because of disagreements with Russia, which wants Serbia to receive broad assistance, the leaders' statement contained no details of how the billions of dollars of planned aid should be distributed.
In practice, the leaders of the richer nations, the Group of Seven, but not Russia, agreed that only basic emergency assistance -- food, shelter and medicine -- should be given to Serbia while Mr. Milosevic remains in power. Britain expressed the view that even this kind of aid was excessive and unjustifiable.
"I don't believe people would understand if we put money into an undemocratic Serbia under Milosevic," Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain said. "Nobody can shut their eyes to the fact that thousands were butchered with unforgivable barbarism in Kosovo, and we cannot start giving money to those that perpetrated these barbarities.
"Our plea to the people of Serbia is that you can be part of a prosperous Balkan future, but first embrace values of democracy and civilization that are incompatible with having an indicted war criminal at the head of your country," he said.
Germany, which earlier this month drew up a so-called Stability Pact to aid the Balkan countries, said it had agreed to Mr. Clinton's request that it organize the Balkan summit conference.
The leaders said today that the World Bank and the European Commission would coordinate efforts to raise money for Balkan reconstruction. An initial conference on emergency aid will be held in July.
Michael Steiner, the chief diplomatic adviser to Mr. Schroder, said that money would be used as a political weapon to isolate Mr. Milosevic. Aid would be channeled to Kosovo, Montenegro and even perhaps areas of Serbia itself run or controlled by opposition parties. "Of course, there is a danger that some of this may seep to Belgrade, but that should not stop us targeting the areas we want to help, and so illustrating that democracy pays," he said.
President Jacques Chirac of France said all the countries of the Balkans could now aspire to membership in the European Union, but added that the bloc "is not prepared to import conflict into its midst."
"The countries in the area should take an example from Romania, which wants to join the European Union and has therefore resolved its problems with its ethnic Hungarian minority," he said.
Asked about Mr. Milosevic, Mr. Chirac added: "Serb forces in Kosovo probably obeyed orders and certainly responded to instincts that were inadmissible and intolerable. The Serbian people should now draw the appropriate political conclusions. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); KOSOVO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF EIGHT; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; GERMANY; RUSSIA; SERBIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); KOSOVO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); COHEN, ROGER BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999



447 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Snag Arises in State Plan For Electric Competition

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 17

 BODY:
An important element of the Pataki administration's plan to lower electricity rates through competition has hit a serious snag: no state agency is legally authorized to give permission to build new power plants.
The problem could be solved with a simple piece of legislation, but in Albany these days, there is no such thing. The Pataki administration proposed a bill this week to resolve the impasse, but the bill is under attack by environmentalists and Democratic legislators. 
 Power companies have applied to build four new plants -- including a floating plant off the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn -- and expand two existing ones. A half-dozen more applications are expected in the next year. One company, U.S. Generating Company, a subsidiary of Pacific Gas & Electric, is ready to begin work on a major new plant in Athens, 30 miles south of Albany, awaiting only permits that, without the current impasse, the state could issue this summer.
But lawmakers and industry analysts say it is likely that those companies will spend the rest of the year, at least, waiting for politicians to resolve their differences. Regulators and the electric industry say new plants are crucial to the new, deregulated power market because they will promote competition and lower energy prices.
"The new plants for the next generation are going to be built in the next two years, as the market opens up," said Assemblyman Paul D. Tonko, a Democrat who is chairman of the Energy Committee. "If they're blocked in New York, they'll get built elsewhere, and we will miss out on the economic benefits."
As much as anything, this is a tale of Albany foul-ups dating back more than a decade, and of the current gridlock between Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, and Democrats in the Legislature over just about every significant issue.
Under Federal law, any new power plant or expansion of an existing plant requires permits showing that it would comply with the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. In each state, the Environmental Protection Agency delegates to a state agency the power to issue those permits.
In the 1980's, New York created a power plant siting board, and the E.P.A. gave it the authority to issue those permits. But the law was written to lapse at the end of 1988. In Albany, factions often add such "sunset clauses" to each other's bills to gain future leverage over the bill's sponsors.
Since no one was clamoring to build new power plants in the 1980's, state officials barely gave a thought to the law's expiration. Then, in 1992, lawmakers created a new siting board, assuming that it would inherit the powers of the old one.
By late last year, New York's moves to introduce competition to the electric power industry had encouraged several companies to propose new and expanded power plants, and they applied to the new siting board for permits.
But in February, the E.P.A. notified the state that the new siting board had no power to issue permits. The agency said it had given that right to the old board, and that the authority was not automatically inherited by the new board.
The E.P.A. added that it did not think the new board had adequate resources to review applications. Federal officials said they would be willing to give the state's Department of Environmental Conservation the power to issue permits, but state law reserved that right for the siting board.
The E.P.A. could issue the permits, itself, but it warned that would take two years.
"No one can quite believe the state got itself in this situation," said Cara Lee, president of Scenic Hudson, an environmental group following the power plant proposals.
Environmentalists seized on another Albany axiom, that difficult decisions are made only when related issues can be linked and a deadline is looming. As long as the state needed a new law on permitting new plants, they argued, why not attach a requirement that older power plants meet the same pollution standards as new ones?
There are no environmental standards for plants that predate the 1970 Clean Air Act, and they are a leading source of air and water pollution. Compared with the coal-fired plants built in the 1940's and 1950's, new plants produce about 75 percent less sulfur dioxide, 40 percent less nitrogen oxide, and 25 percent less carbon dioxide.
An older plant can consume over 200 billion gallons of water a year for cooling, killing millions of fish as they are sucked in, and killing still more by pumping heated water into an adjoining river or lake. A comparable new plant takes in 2 billion to 3 billion gallons a year.
But in its new bill, the Pataki administration does not deal with standards for older plants. It would give the Department of Environmental Conservation the power to issue permits for new plants, and adds some new wording to the law governing environmental standards for those plants.
"It's an insult to everybody who breathes," said Larry Shapiro, a senior lawyer at the New York Public Interest Research Group who closely follows electric power issues. "Here was this huge opportunity, and they blew it."
The Governor's office declined to comment on the bill, directing inquiries to the Public Service Commission, which oversees the power industry.
"We're willing to listen to other ideas," said David Flanagan, spokesman for the commission, "but the bottom line is, this legislation sets stricter environmental standards than have ever existed in New York State for siting power plants." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (90%); PCG (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (90%); E P A (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: E P A (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LAW AND LEGISLATION ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ENERGY SITING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (73%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (72%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (57%); WATER QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) PAUL TONKO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999



448 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
Serbs Meet Deadline For Kosovo Withdrawal
The last of some 40,000 Serbian forces left Kosovo a few hours ahead of NATO's deadline for withdrawal, in effect ending Yugoslavia's control over the province. The NATO Secretary General, Javier Solana, said that he had lifted the alliance's threat to resume bombing, formally ending the 78-day air war. A1
 
Leaders of the seven wealthiest nations and Russia met at a summit in Cologne and outlined a plan for ending eight years of war in the Balkans through a program of aid and political support, but said Yugoslavia must undertake "democratic and economic reforms" to take part. A8 

Russian and American leaders met and tried to set a fresh start to the relationship that has frayed over the war. President Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin focused their meeting on the Russian economy, Moscow's sharing of nuclear technology with Iran, and arms control. A1
 
Hundreds of Serbs who had fled Kosovo, fearing vengeance from the Kosovo Liberation Army rebels, responded to appeals from the Yugoslav Government to return to the province and to trust the security provided by NATO-led forces. A9
 
Colombia Rebels' Strategy
The National Liberation Army, Colombia's second largest guerrilla group, has managed to thrust itself back into the center of national attention through a wave of kidnappings even though the group's military power has been weakened by a series of defeats. The Government is ignoring the group's demands for peace talks. A3
 
India Reports Kashmir Victory
Indian forces drove Pakistani troops from a key outpost in the disputed Himalayan territory of Kashmir, wresting near-complete control of a major highway from separatist Islamic rebels, the Indian Defense Ministry said. A7
 
Protestants Rally in Cuba
Tens of thousands of Cuban Protestants held an unprecedented open-air celebration at Revolution Square in Havana in a further sign of increased religious tolerance by the ruling Communist Party. A6
 
NATIONAL A10-13
 
G.O.P. Softens Stance On Abortion Policy
The Republican Party has undergone a fundamental repositioning and softening of its abortion stance in order to boost its chances of reclaiming the White House. The move has alarmed some conservatives and split the Republican Presidential field, but most party leaders seem to view that as a more palatable alternative than giving a Democrat the Presidency. A1
 
Breast Implants Cleared
An independent panel of 13 scientists convened by the Institute of Medicine at Congress's request has concluded that silicone breast implants do not cause any major diseases. The report says that there is no reason to believe the implants cause rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, or any other systemic disease. A1
 
A Vote for Gun Control
Tom Tancredo was elected to Congress last fall with donations that included $9,900 from the National Rifle Association, the group's largest contribution to one of Colorado's six Representatives. Yet on Friday, Mr. Tancredo, a Republican with a libertarian streak, stood out in the House as the only Colorado Congressman to vote for the final gun-control bill. He said the Columbine High School shootings made the difference. A10
 
Review of Shootings
A Secret Service team has begun a review of the Columbine shootings and those at more than a dozen other schools. The team is interviewing the killers to find patterns of motive and behavior to help schools and the police recognize which students are moving from interest in killing to weapons acquisition. A10
 
Privacy Bill Loses Ground
Legislation to protect the privacy of medical records is dying under pressure from insurance companies, health care businesses, law-enforcement officials and others asking Congress to preserve their access to sensitive information on patients. A12
 
California City on Guard
Residents of Portola, Calif., are worried about a possible return of northern pike to Lake Davis, threatening the tourism built on fishing for trout. In 1997, the state dumped poisons into the lake to kill the pike and later restocked the lake with trout. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Bull Runs Wild In Long Island City
A bull escaped from an illegal rodeo in a Queens parking lot and charged through the streets of Long Island City before four police officers shot it dead in the parking lot of a housing project, the police said. B1
 
High-Tech Scavenger Hunt
A group of highly unusual tourists turned New York City into their own game board. The tourists -- mostly current and former employees of Microsoft -- raced from one borough to the next on a frantic 24-hour mission called "The Game," a high-tech scavenger hunt. B1
 
Clintons to Move to New York
President Clinton said that he and First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton intend to "get a place" in New York -- soon enough to allow Mrs. Clinton to use it as a residence if she decides to run for the Senate. B4
 
Woman Falls to Her Death
A guest at the St. Moritz Hotel on Central Park South flung jewelry and $38,000 in cash into the alley below her 29th-floor hotel room and then fell backward to her death from a window ledge, the police said. B3
 
ARTS E1-8
 
Last Episode of 'Another World'
The final episode of "Another World" will air on Friday. The demise of one of television's most venerable soap operas comes as audiences are plummeting, sending the industry into a sense of gloom. A1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-12
 
Stewart Wins U.S. Open
Payne Stewart made a 15-foot par putt on the 18th hole at storied Pinehurst No. 2 to win the U.S. Open by one stroke over Phil Mickelson. D1
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
Clifton Fadiman
An essayist, critic, editor and anthologist whose encyclopedic knowledge made him a mainstay of "Information Please" and other popular radio programs in the late 1930's, 40's and 50's, he was 95. B8
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Sector Hard to Analyze
The combinations deemed necessary to propel telecommunications companies into the Internet age are wreaking havoc on Wall Street. Investors are struggling with these new hybrids, surprised by what these companies aspire to become and questioning how those ambitions fit their investing strategy. C2
 
Year 2000 Confidence
A poll last week of American corporate managers involved in Year 2000 projects found growing confidence about the millennium computer challenge. C4
 
Stormy Outlook for PC Profits
Most makers of personal computers are struggling to boost earnings, and an expo this week at the Javits Convention Center in Manhattan reflects the industry's shift to smaller, portable devices to make a profit. C10
 
America Online Wary
Documents and testimony offered last week at Microsoft's antitrust trial disclosed that the leaders of America Online still feel threatened by Microsoft. C16
 
Stocks Higher in Tokyo
Stocks were higher in Tokyo today. At midday, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues was up 281.95 points, or 1.62 percent, at 17,713.21. (Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: The horrors of Kosovo; get the lead dust out; Gail Collins on Al Gore.
 
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
 
TV Listings E7
 
Crossword E6
 
Public Lives A1
 
Metro Diary B2
 
Weather B6
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); INDIA (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CUBA (68%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (55%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (55%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); INDIA (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CUBA (68%); KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (85%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (83%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); GUN CONTROL (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); RELIGION (67%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (63%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS (62%); RHEUMATIC DISEASES (62%); LUPUS (62%); ABORTION (60%); ARTHRITIS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); JAVIER SOLANA (57%); THOMAS G TANCREDO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999



449 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: DIPLOMACY;
U.S. AND RUSSIANS STRIVE TO REPAIR FRAYED RELATIONS

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany, June 20

 BODY:
The reasonable face of Russia, President Boris N. Yeltsin, walked stiffly, but his presence here today was enough to reassure President Clinton and other Western leaders that dialogue with Moscow was possible in the aftermath of the Kosovo war.
After weeks of tensions since the start of the war, culminating in an unnerving standoff between Russian and NATO troops at the main airport in Kosovo, the Russian and American leaders met today and decided to let bygones be bygones, according to Mr. Clinton's aides. 
 "I think we're actually in a position to have a stronger relationship with Russia in the future than before the conflict started," Mr. Clinton said after their hourlong session.
Trying to give a fresh start to the frayed relationship, the aides said, the two leaders instead focused their discussions on the Russian economy, Moscow's sharing of nuclear technology with Iran, and arms control.
Russia, in a joint statement, agreed for the first time to begin discussions on changes to the linchpin accord on nuclear weapons between the two countries, something Mr. Clinton has desired.
The encounter between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Yeltsin, their first since the President was in Moscow last September, was set in the context of the summit meeting of the world's seven leading industrial nations and Russia, the so-called Group of Eight.
Russia was included in the prestigious Group of Seven several years ago as a way of showing that Moscow counted as a major power, and Mr. Yeltsin's appearance, truncated to about seven hours and uncertain until the last moment due to the precariousness of his health, was as important for him as it was for the West.
"We need to make up after our fight," Mr. Yeltsin said of the heated differences between the NATO allies and Russia over Kosovo.
Although he and Mr. Clinton set Kosovo aside in their direct discussions, together the summit leaders outlined plans for a vast program of aid and political support for the Balkans that would exclude Yugoslavia until it undertakes democratic reforms. Page A8.
The leaders were relieved and grateful today after having watched the roller coaster behavior of Russia over Kosovo -- helpful, then obstinate, over the peacekeeping role of its troops, and then helpful again in arriving at a solution two days ago.
As a traditional ally of Serbia, Russia vehemently opposed NATO's bombing campaign. But the Group of Eight has been one of the chief channels for using Russia as a bridge between NATO and the Yugoslav leader, Slobodan Milosevic. Today, at least, the group's leaders appeared to reap a payback from a cooperative, engaged Mr. Yeltsin.
Appearing buoyed by today's encounter with the Russian President, Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said the meeting was "one of the best" the two leaders have held.
Despite the concerns about the health of Mr. Yeltsin, who has had a history of heart ailments and appeared wooden in his movements today, Mr. Clinton described the Russian leader as "clear, concise, direct and strong," in an interview afterward with CNN.
As for the other allies, the French President, Jacques Chirac, spoke warmly of "reconciliation" between Russia and the West. But the leaders, reflecting their underlying uncertainty about Russia's political future, offered only modest economic assistance.
In the final communique today, Russia was urged to step up its economic reforms so it could meet requirements set by the International Monetary Fund for an agreement on a $4.5 billion loan. Only after the agreement with the fund was in place, should the Paris Club of creditors "act expeditiously" to reschedule Russia's debt, the communique said.
The plan for this debt relief was a "little thank you by the West" for Russia's final role in resolving the Kosovo crisis, Karl Kaiser, a German foreign ministry official, said today.
Almost half of Russia's total debt of about $150 billion is owed to Germany and further debt relief would require a "green light" from the German Government, Mr. Kaiser said. So far, such a go-ahead was not in sight, he added.
In the last several weeks, as the negotiations over Kosovo went up and down, the White House had prepared several possible outcomes for the meeting between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Yeltsin. The worst case, some officials said, would have been a total blowup.
Until almost the last moment, it looked as though the two would talk almost exclusively about Kosovo and conclude an agreement on how Russian soldiers would operate with NATO in the province. But with Mr. Yeltsin apparently giving the order to settle the talks in Helsinki before the summit meeting today, the way was cleared, according to Mr. Berger, for the two countries to be "back in business."
In their face-to-face meeting held in an bland conference room in a local hotel where the Russian delegation was staying -- a locale chosen so Mr. Yeltsin would not have to move around too much -- Mr. Clinton reiterated the position of the other summit leaders on economic issues.
Russia must meet the revenue raising requirements set by the I.M.F. in order to start the disbursement of the $4.5 billion loan, Mr. Clinton said. Mr. Berger quoted Mr. Yeltsin as saying: "I am personally committed" to completing the I.M.F. agreement.
In agreeing in the joint Russian-American statement to discuss the Antiballistic Missile Treaty between the two countries, Mr. Yeltsin acceded to a process that the Russians had previously refused to consider, Administration officials said.
The Administration wants to start the discussions because modifications to the treaty are needed if a decision is made to deploy the national missile defense system proposed by Mr. Clinton in January.
Mr. Yeltsin, the statement also said, pledged to work toward the ratification of the Start 2 treaty -- stalled by Russia's Communist-dominated Parliament, a pledge the Yeltsin Government has made many times before. The two sides also agreed to continue discussions on the Start 3 treaty, which aims to reduce both sides' nuclear arsenals.
Administration officials said Mr. Yeltsin raised the issue of Congress lifting the Jackson-Vanik Act, a 1974 law that bars an automatic grant to Russia of normal trading relations with the United States because of Moscow's Soviet-era refusal to permit freedom of emigration.
Russia has been declared eligible for normal trading relations status, even though the law remains on the books, so the law has little practical effect. Recent expressions of anti-Semitism by Communist Party politicians in Russia have made Congress reluctant to repeal the law, officials said.
When told that those Russian politicians were blocking congressional actions, Mr. Yeltsin, according to a White House official, replied: "Give me the names. I will grind them down and come at them like a ton of bricks."
On the question of Russian helping Iran with nuclear technology, Mr. Yeltsin said he wanted to be cooperative in solving the problem, Administration officials said. The Russian President said he wanted to revive cooperation between Vice President Al Gore and the former Russian Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin by including the new Prime Minister, Sergei V. Stepashin. The arms issues could be dealt with in this way, Mr. Yeltsin said.
As a special gesture to Mr. Clinton, Mr. Yeltsin presented the President with documents on President Kennedy and his assassination. The documents had been declassified by Russian military and civilian archives at Mr. Yeltsin's request in the last several years, Mr. Berger said.
In the interview with CNN's Late Edition, Mr. Clinton expanded on his thinking at the start of NATO's air campaign and on his foreign policy generally. Asked if he thought the bombing of Serbia would last 78 days before Mr. Milosevic agreed to NATO's terms, he said, "I thought that there was maybe a 50 percent chance it would be over in a week."
But he added: "I knew if he decided to take the punishment of the air campaign, it could go a long -- quite a long -- while."
Asked if there was a doctrine that best characterized his foreign policy, Mr. Clinton said it was that "whether within or beyond" a country's borders, "if the world community has the power to stop it, we ought to stop genocide and ethnic cleansing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Boris N. Yeltsin, shaky but enthusiastic, waved to spectators with Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany in Cologne yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (54%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (54%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); TRENDS (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); PERLEZ, JANE BILL CLINTON (92%); GERHARD SCHRODER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999



450 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1857 words

HEADLINE: Episode 1: The Phantom Film Studio;
Hopes and Doubts Greet a Plan for Sound Stages at the Brooklyn Navy Yard

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
To skeptics it is too big, too far, too speculative and, coming at a time when sound stages are sitting empty across Los Angeles, altogether too much: the kind of boom-era bubble likely to pop as soon as it hits the first sharp object or dissonant breeze.
But like a particularly tangled Hollywood potboiler, the proposal to build a mammoth movie-making complex at the Brooklyn Navy Yard continues to lurch along, navigating a wall of worry while it is propelled by a big-name steamroller. 
 It is still not entirely clear whether the proposal backed by Robert De Niro's TriBeCa Productions and Harvey Weinstein's Miramax Films will go forward, and what it would mean for the other sound-stage projects being proposed in New York. Potential lenders are still studying the Navy Yard proposal, which was announced in May and has commitments for less than half the $150 million in financing it needs to go forward.
But there is no question that there has never been more interest in building movie studios in New York since the industry left for California at the beginning of the century, and that the outsize aspirations of the Navy Yard project parallel the growth of the film business in the city over the last decade. Less clear is whether that growth will continue and whether there is enough business for the proposed projects.
In particular, skeptics wonder if there would be enough filmmaking for the 12 sound stages envisioned for the Navy Yard, if people would travel to Brooklyn and if the current glut in Los Angeles should be a warning for New York.
"Over the last 20 years there have been a lot of projects announced, and most of them never happened, so until someone puts a shovel in the ground, you can't be sure of anything," said Pat Scott, Commissioner of the city Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting. "But we keep losing work because we can't supply the facilities, and it's absurd to have the talent and the creativity here and not have the right facilities."
There is some logic in developing some sort of studio project at the Navy Yard, which was founded in 1801, saw employment peak at 71,000 in World War II and was shut down in 1966. The city purchased the site between the Manhattan and Williamsburg Bridges across from Manhattan's Lower East Side in 1970, and since then employment -- in industries that include offices, ship repair and manufacturing of products that range from housing to Sweet 'n Low to shrouds -- has bounced around at a few thousand jobs. The number has been creeping up in recent years, and the city has approved $40 million to upgrade the waterfront, buildings and electrical and water systems on the site's 169 acres.
But nothing in the hodgepodge of warehouses, offices and industrial sites bears any resemblance to the ambitious plan to build a movie-making complex on 15 acres that now stand largely empty except for three hulking structures once used to store and manufacture parts for World War II battleships and aircraft carriers. The project, with a dozen sound stages and 700,000 square feet over all, would be the largest by far in the city, and would be expected to spawn spinoff businesses to create a permanent filmmaking infrastructure.
 
Numbers Show Industry Growth
The best argument for the site is the current boom in film activity in New York. City figures indicate that a record 221 films were shot in New York last year, generating $2.57 billion in economic activity. It was the fifth straight record-breaking year. The number of days films were shot in New York increased by 50 percent over the past five years, and direct expenditures on filmmaking have risen 78 percent. Over the last year alone, the number of prime-time television series filmed in New York climbed to 10 from 6.
But New York has only 600,000 square feet of sound stages for major productions, Ms. Scott said, while Los Angeles has about 3.7 million.
People in government and the industry agree that there is enormous demand for the kind of stages being contemplated, and that having people like Mr. De Niro, Mr. Weinstein and the developer Steven Roth, chairman of Vornado Realty Trust, behind the project gives it a credibility earlier projects did not have.
"When you have people involved who can generate their own production and co-production like Tribeca and Miramax, you're just immediately on another level," Ms. Scott said.
Filmmakers tend to come to New York to shoot on location and then do indoor and post-production work in Los Angeles or increasingly in Canada, where costs are lower than in New York or Los Angeles. But if better space were available, it is likely that more would be willing to do that work in New York as well, filmmakers say. They say it makes enormous sense to do both in one place, so if, for example, bad weather scuttles outdoor shooting, a production can move indoors for the day rather than wasting it. Working in one place also cuts down on having two production offices and other expenses.
And the Navy Yard, in many ways, is a tantalizing option. It has the kind of vast expanses and room for support and satellite businesses almost impossible to find in New York or Los Angeles. Existing buildings at the Navy Yard have already been used for filming. Because of the investment approved by the city, the proposed complex would have the kind of advanced fiber optic and telecommuncations equipment needed. And as a municipally owned site it has an owner desperate to make the site work.
 
'All It Takes Is a Little Vision'
"I know I sound like a Pollyanna, but this is going to happen," said Marc H. Rosenbaum, president of the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, which was established by the city to run the Navy Yard, as his van skirted potholes and puddles at the site, which is as glamorous as a sewer pipe but nonetheless employs 3,000 people in 200 businesses that would coexist with the movie complex. "All it takes is a little vision."
Still, vision can be a little clouded for New York's film industry. After all, the local film business boomed in the 1970's and early 80's, collapsed in the face of disputes with unions in the late 80's and early 90's and has come roaring back in recent years. Similar deals with less high-powered backing have regularly collapsed over the past 15 years. And some wonder if the digital era will lessen the need for huge sound stages.
The most recent mega-plan, by an independent film production company, the Shooting Gallery, called for building 15 sound stages for $75 million in an old industrial park in Harrison, N.J. That was scrapped for a much more modest project in lower Manhattan. Similarly, the original proposal for the Navy Yard by two young promoters, Louis Madigan and Cory Dean Hart, foundered, and without the Miramax and De Niro names it seems unlikely that investors for the project would have been found.
Even producers who would like to see the additional space say sound stages have little appeal to lenders, who would rather build an office or apartment building than a sound stage with no guarantee that it can withstand cyclical ups and down of the movie industry.
"I think it would be great if it happened," said Ilene Landress, producer of the television series "The Sopranos," which is filmed at Silvercup Studios, at a former bread bakery in Long Island City, Queens. "But I might be retired by the time it does, and I'm not old. The problem is you need to find someone with a lot of money for a project like this, and there are so many other businesses that make more sense than building black boxes for sound stages."
There are other reasons to be wary. Filmmakers consistently express a preference for Manhattan, and an aversion to fighting bridge and tunnel traffic to Brooklyn. Even the two existing sound stage complexes in Queens, Silvercup and Kaufman Astoria Studios, have far better access to public transportation than the Navy Yard does.
Despite the city's efforts to spruce it up, the site is widely viewed as an eyesore, and is sometimes referred to as Dodge City because of the need to dodge trucks, cranes and heavy equipment. And many people are skeptical about the project's scope.
"I was struck by the notion of building 12 sound stages," said Phil Dixson, managing director of Televest, which produces soap operas for Procter & Gamble. "It sounds awfully ambitious to me. I could see three or four being booked up rather quickly. But I'm not sure how they came up with the number they did."
Compounding the uncertainties are expansion plans at other studios that could include five new studios at Silvercup, five at the proposed Hudson River Studios at Houston Street and one at Kaufman Astoria. Only Silvercup has begun construction.
Then there are the larger issues buffeting the industry.
"Right now studio space in Los Angeles is going begging, it's empty," said Tom Pollock, former head of Universal Pictures and currently the chairman of the American Film Institute. "And sound stages are not a way to make a lot of money. It's a rental business of small margins and fixed costs. You don't make money by owning the lot. You make it by owning the successful software, the successful movie."
 
Nominal Support, But No Commitment
Also in question is the need for big sound stages at a time when production can increasingly be done on computer screens.
The parties to the Brooklyn proposal are declining comment while the major potential financer, Union Labor Life Insurance Company, a union-supported pension fund, studies a potential $80 million investment in the deal. Absent that commitment, the deal remains nowhere near the financing needed to go forward. And for all their nominal support, neither Miramax nor Tribeca has made any binding commitments to use the site.
"Their announcement was the biggest non-announcement announcement I've ever seen," said one person in the film industry.
In addition to securing the rest of the money and the role of all the principals, the project must deal with Mr. Madigan and Mr. Hart, the promoters, who say they still hope to be a major part of the project.
The plan has a lot of constituencies. The New York film industry sees it as a catalyst for expansion. City officials see it as an economic development plum. Mr. De Niro and Miramax see it as a project that would make it easier for them to make movies in New York. And the the Union Labor Life Insurance Company would get both construction jobs and the possibility of future union jobs, though company officials take pains to say the project has to make economic sense on its own.
And the proposal may benefit from coming at precisely the right moment.
"The timing on this couldn't be better," said Dan Levinson, a producer and director who moved to Los Angeles from New York in 1987 and returned two years ago. "New York is hot. People really want to come here again. If the unions are smart and make some real concessions, I think New York can steal a lot of the business back from L.A. Will it happen? I don't know. But I wouldn't bet against Harvey Weinstein and Robert De Niro."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marc H. Rosenbaum, president of the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, says he is optimistic about plans for film production. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E7); (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MIRAMAX FILMS; TRIBECA PRODUCTIONS; BROOKLYN NAVY YARD DEVELOPMENT CORP US NAVY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIRAMAX FILMS; TRIBECA PRODUCTIONS; BROOKLYN NAVY YARD DEVELOPMENT CORP US NAVY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BROOKLYN NAVY YARD MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); FILM (90%); NAVIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); WORLD WAR II (71%); SHIPBUILDING (71%); APPROVALS (71%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; DE NIRO, ROBERT; WEINSTEIN, HARVEY; ROSENBAUM, MARC H HARVEY WEINSTEIN (71%); ROBERT DE NIRO (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



451 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 8; Column 1; Health & Fitness 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Panel Calls for Study of Some Implant Risks

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21

 BODY:
Members of an expert committee of scientists that assessed the safety of silicone breast implants formally issued their report today, calling for more research on risks of rupture and other local complications that can arise from the devices.
Although there is no scientific evidence pointing to silicone implants as the cause of major diseases, the scientists said, women who have breast implants, whether they are filled with silicone or salt water, have the right to know what the chances are that the devices will slip or deflate or lead to infections or scarring. 
 The committee was established by the Institute of Medicine, part of the National Academy of Sciences in response to a request by Congress in 1997. Its members had no connection to companies that manufacture implants or to lawyers representing women suing the companies and had taken no prior positions on the safety of silicone breast implants, said Dr. Kenneth Shine, the president of the Institute of Medicine.
After reviewing thousands of papers and documents submitted by scientists, implant makers and groups representing women who had implants, the group reached a unanimous consensus: the primary safety concern with implants is their tendency to cause local complications like infections, pain and scarring and the possibility that women might have to have second or even subsequent operations as a consequence.
The committee chairman, Dr. Stuart Bondurant, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, said the group heard women tell them in testimony and letters that they had not known that their implants could cause local problems.
"One of the notable things they told us is that they were told the implants would last a lifetime," Dr. Bondurant said. While emphasizing that that is the women's recollection, he noted that there were never any data to support such an assertion.
Dr. Virginia Ernster, a professor of epidemiology at the University of California at San Francisco, said that the best she could do in assessing the published data on the complications of implants was to come up with a range of risks.
Women who had implants to augment their breasts had about a 24 percent chance of needing to go back to the operating room in three to five years to repair problems or complications with implants, Dr. Ernster said. Those who had implants after a mastectomy had a 23 to 40 percent chance of needing a second operation in three to five years.
In recent years, most women who had implants have received devices filled with saline -- salt water -- rather than silicone, Dr. Bondurant said. Preliminary studies suggest that these devices have fewer complications, with just a 1 percent to 3 percent chance of deflation per year, he said, but more research is needed.
Sybil Goldrich, founder of Command Trust Network, an information clearinghouse for women with silicone problems, said in a telephone interview that rupture was "not a trivial problem."
Women whose implants rupture, she said, can "end up with a lifetime of medical bills that can be staggering."
The committee urged that women who have implants be tracked so investigators can get reliable data on the incidence of medical complications like rupture, scarring and infection. Such information "is an essential part of the informed consent process," the group said.
But the committee was insistent about what it described as its "very firm conclusions" on the diseases that some women and doctors have said were caused by implants -- a list that includes cancer, connective tissue diseases like arthritis and lupus, neurological problems, a new disease characterized by symptoms like fatigue and muscle aches and pains and diseases in the children of women with implants. These were the diseases at the heart of the multibillion-dollar product liability litigation over breast implants.
Dr. Bondurant said that the group concluded that "women with implants are no more likely than other women to develop these systemic illnesses." More than 60 women with implants testified before the committee in a public hearing and hundreds more wrote letters telling of the severe medical problems they had suffered since having their implants.
"We were very moved by the testimony we heard," Dr. Ernster said. "But it does not appear that the implants were the cause of the systemic illnesses."
Asked if another group of equally qualified and objective scientists could look at the same data and come to a different conclusion, Dr. Bondurant said, "No, I can't imagine that." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (69%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (83%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (83%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (57%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (83%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (83%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (57%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (69%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: BREAST; IMPLANTS; SILICONE; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; SUITS AND LITIGATION SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (89%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); BREAST CANCER (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA STUART BONDURANT (85%); VIRGINIA ERNSTER (65%); JOHN MAJOR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



452 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 40 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN FALLS AGAIN. The dollar rose against the yen after the Bank of Japan sold its currency for the fourth time in 11 days to stem gains that threaten a recovery. In New York, the dollar settled at 122.42 yen, up from 120.44.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Jan. 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



453 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding Relations With Russia

 BODY:
Americans should be encouraged by the constructive tone of President Clinton's talks with Russia's President, Boris Yeltsin, in Germany Sunday. Moscow seems almost as eager as Washington to move beyond the tensions that resulted from NATO's bombing campaign against Yugoslavia.
But given the Russian leader's erratic policies and fragile health, there can be no assurance of things going smoothly. Both sides, but particularly Moscow, must follow through on Sunday's pledges on nuclear arms reductions, Russian economic reform, new talks on defensive missiles and curtailment of Russian nuclear cooperation with Iran. Promises have been made before, without results. 
 Russia's most urgent need is Western financial support. Mr. Yeltsin committed himself to achieve the improved tax collection and other reforms Moscow promised the International Monetary Fund in negotiations to release a new $4.5 billion loan installment. The United States and Europe are right to declare that they will reschedule their own loans to Russia only if Moscow first satisfies the I.M.F.
On arms, Mr. Yeltsin once again promised to try to get Russia's Parliament to ratify the long-stalled 1993 nuclear weapons treaty with the United States. Ratification would lead to sharp cuts in long-range missile forces and thus ease acute pressures on Russia's budget. Before the Kosovo crisis there were realistic hopes that the budgetary argument might sway enough votes to overcome nationalist and Communist opposition. That case can be strengthened if Washington and Moscow press ahead, as pledged, with talks on a new treaty authorizing even deeper nuclear weapons cuts.
Mr. Yeltsin pleased Washington by agreeing to open negotiations on modifying the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty in ways that might accommodate future American plans for a limited missile defense against countries like North Korea. He also renewed offers to work with the Clinton Administration on curbing Russian nuclear technology transfers to Iran. Over all, he seemed to recognize that Russia's own interests are best served by cooperative relations with the United States.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN FINANCIAL PRINTING CO (56%); WESTERN FINANCIAL BANK (56%); WESTERN FINANCIAL GROUP INC (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



454 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1767 words

HEADLINE: The Friendly Merger Banker;
At Chase, the Chairman Tries to Make All Sides Winners

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
Early one morning about 10 years ago, Jack Welch, chief executive of the General Electric Company, waited for an elevator in the hallway outside his apartment in the Waldorf Towers in Manhattan.
Mr. Welch was feeling at the top of his game, bursting with confidence. Then the elevator doors opened. Deflated, he stood face to face with Walter Shipley, then head of the Chemical Banking Corporation, who at 6 feet 8 inches loomed a foot above him. 
 "I sort of stuck my thumb in my mouth and said, 'Gee, Walter, thank you for adding to all of my insecurities,' " Mr. Welch recalled in a recent interview.
Although few might have agreed at the time, given Chemical's financial woes, Mr. Welch accurately took Mr. Shipley's measure. Since that encounter, Mr. Shipley has quietly pulled off two of the biggest banking mergers in history, no mean feat in an industry that has seen many careers and companies derailed by bungled mergers. Chemical eventually became the Chase Manhattan Corporation and is now one of a handful of clear leaders in the rapidly changing financial services business.
And Mr. Shipley, who retired as Chase's chief executive on June 1 but will remain chairman for an undetermined time, now has some advice for deal meisters hoping to ride America's merger wave: slash-and-burn takeovers will come back to haunt you.
"Some people's philosophy is I win, you lose," he said. "Our philosophy is that the best is when both sides feel they've come out winners."
At first glance, Mr. Shipley, 63, is the least likely poster boy for the merger boom that has reshaped financial services and other major industries the last decade. Deliberate in his speech, modest and self-effacing to a fault and willing to share power, Mr. Shipley has not enjoyed the renown of chief executives like Citigroup's John Reed or Bank of America's Hugh McColl. But within banking circles, and in the broader reaches of corporate America, Mr. Shipley is widely admired.
"Walter has been able to do the deals he has because he has a very contained ego," said Lawrence A. Bossidy, chairman of Allied Signal Inc. "But he's also been able to get people to work very hard for him and get results. I don't think many other people in his seat could have accomplished what he's accomplished."
Perhaps most important, said executives who have worked closely with Mr. Shipley, is that he is anything but Machiavellian.
"This is a guy who is quietly capable, bright, sensitive, and a very good guy right down to his toes," Mr. Welch said. "I haven't had a dealing with him in which he wasn't completely straight up."
Certainly, despite Mr. Shipley's achievements, not all of Chase's holes have been plugged during his tenure.
William Harrison, Mr. Shipley's successor as chief executive, inherits a bank that is not big enough or profitable enough to be competitive in some key consumer businesses. On the corporate side, Chase still needs to buy an equity underwriting business at some point, though the bank said it feels no pressure to rush into a deal. Some community activists have criticized Chase's lending record in low-income areas, and Mr. Shipley himself said he wishes Chase had made greater progress in promoting women and members of minorities.
Still, Mr. Shipley leaves a formidable legacy. In 1990, the stock market collectively valued the three banks that now make up Chase -- Chemical, Chase and the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation -- at about $4 billion. Today, the market values the company at more than $70 billion, testimony enough to how the bank's fortunes have changed since the dog days of the late 1970's and 1980's.
During those years, Chemical was often derided as "Comical." The bank, along with many of its competitors, suffered through a nightmare era of shoddy lending that called into question the survival of some of the country's largest banks, including Chemical -- and reaffirmed the popular image of bankers as slow-moving fumblers.
Bad overseas loans, many of them arranged when Mr. Shipley oversaw Chemical's international division, were not the bank's only problem. Deals that Mr. Shipley cut as Chemical's chief executive in the 1980's failed to meet expectations. Chemical's acquisition of Texas Commerce Bancshares Inc. in 1987 was seen as too pricey at the time and was undertaken shortly before Texas's high-flying oil and real estate markets collapsed. Smaller deals, like Chemical's takeover of Horizon Bancorp, a New Jersey bank, also misfired.
But as the economy began to surge in the early 1990's, and as the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, adjusted interest rates to help banks recover, Mr. Shipley had the foresight and ability to place Chemical in the forefront of the merger boom. Much of his approach toward mergers was learned the hard way.
The son of a Wall Street investment banker who regularly surrounded his wife and four children with visitors from overseas, Mr. Shipley attended Williams College to study economics and political science. Although he shot hoops well enough to be named captain of the basketball team, off the court he was slipping. Bad grades forced him to leave Williams in 1956, during his junior year.
"I grew up in a family that put tight controls on kids, and so when I went away to school it was kaboom, I'm free," Mr. Shipley said. "I'd gotten through high school with ease, without ever having to really apply myself."
Mr. Shipley referred to his departure from Williams as a "wake-up call" that made him determined to prove to his family and friends that "I was better than I had demonstrated up until that time."
He joined the New York Trust Company in 1956 and later earned his undergraduate degree from New York University. In 1959, New York Trust was bought by Chemical, and many of Mr. Shipley's colleagues were shunted aside because they did not come from Chemical -- a disturbing episode he vowed not to repeat if he ever orchestrated a takeover.
"It was extremely influential in my thinking about how to do a merger," said Mr. Shipley, who rose through the ranks to become Chemical's chief executive. "If you simply work to create an environment based on meritocracy as opposed to one based on what your pedigree is, you create an environment where no one is unintentionally demotivated."
Above all, Mr. Shipley believed, mergers should be as friendly as possible. So when Chemical hitched up with Manufacturers Hanover in 1991, the deal that raised the curtain on the 1990's merger boom, Mr. Shipley agreed to take a back seat at first as president, letting John G. McGillicuddy of Manufacturers be chief executive. But he also insisted that the best people from each bank be given other top slots.
Mr. Shipley succeeded Mr. McGillicuddy in 1994 and a year later effected his second blockbuster deal, the $10 billion union with Chase, which secured the new bank's place in the top tier.
Although Chemical clearly took over Chase, Mr. Shipley adopted the Chase name and went out of his way to make a place for Chase's chief executive, Thomas Labrecque. He ultimately asserted that he and Mr. Labrecque should be considered equals.
"We wanted to create a new and better culture for a new and better bank," Mr. Shipley said. "Our idea is to create an environment where no one feels self-conscious about themselves or where they came from. I want them to feel self-conscious if their performance is not up to standard."
For those employees further down the totem pole, thousands of painful layoffs made the merger of Chase and Chemical far rockier. But the union was marked by an effort to make the job losses as humane as possible. The bank said that since the merger with Chase was completed in 1996, enough new jobs have been added so that the staff size has remained steady at about 72,000. Although plenty of higher-paying jobs were undoubtedly replaced by lower-paying ones, Chase also awarded stock options to remaining employees, options now worth tens of thousands of dollars to many of them.
Moreover, for all the drawbacks to the merger, Chase has been spared much of the prolonged turmoil of other banking mergers.
For example, when Wells Fargo & Company bought the First Interstate Corporation in 1996 in a hostile takeover, service disruptions and declining morale ate into the combined bank's profits. That forced Wells into a merger last year with the Norwest Corporation, ending Paul Hazen's tenure as chief executive.
Last year, the First Union Corporation, despite having a reputation as one of the most astute acquirers in banking and being led by a well-regarded chief executive, Edward Cutchfield Jr., badly botched its acquisition of the Corestates Financial Corporation. Profits have been hurt, employee morale is low, and First Union is now regarded as a potential takeover target.
Citigroup, while posting impressive earnings recently, is still trying to overcome the divisive turf disputes it has encountered since Citicorp and Travelers Group Inc. merged last year. Other banks that have simply sat out the merger boom, including venerated titans like J. P. Morgan & Company, now run the risk of being marginalized because they are not large enough to compete.
But Mr. Shipley has recreated Chase as a true financial powerhouse with a global reach, particularly in areas like trading and corporate finance. Despite lingering skepticism among some analysts and investors about Chase's ability to maintain its robust profitability and avoid financial pitfalls -- skepticism heightened by the bank's role last year in the near-collapse of the Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund and its heavy reliance on volatile trading revenue -- the bank has repeatedly proved its mettle in recent years.
"Walter understands people very well, and he has built a very strong staff at that bank," said H. Rodgin Cohen, a lawyer specializing in mergers and acquisitions with Sullivan & Cromwell. "There's a very eclectic mix of people at Chase because Walter looks at people in terms of their talent, not what bank they came from."
Late last month, addressing hundreds of employees at an awards ceremony at Chase's New York headquarters, Mr. Shipley realized it would be the last time he appeared before the group as chief executive. As he digressed and told the throng how proud he was to have led them, he grew flustered. At that moment, the employees rose and gave him a standing ovation.
"I think people in the company feel good, and it wasn't always that way," Mr. Shipley said, recalling the incident. "I think people in Chase today feel proud."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Shipley's ability to share power may be the hallmark of his success. Mr. Shipley at his Chase Manhattan office. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "A Model of Consistency"
Since the 1991 merger of Chemical and Manufacturers Hanover and the 1996 merger of Chemical and Chase Manhattan, the company that emerged has had consistent revenue and income and has become a favorite among investors. All numbers have been restated to reflect combined totals of the banks. Graphs plot merger years, market capitalization and operating income, from 1991 through 1999. (Source: Chase Manhattan Corporation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (91%); GEC (LSE) (91%); GE (SWX) (91%); GE (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; CHEMICAL BANK; MANUFACTURERS HANOVER TRUST CORP GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; CHEMICAL BANK; MANUFACTURERS HANOVER TRUST CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); 

PERSON: SHIPLEY, WALTER V; O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY JACK WELCH (91%); JACK REED (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



455 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Budget Deficit Narrowed in May

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21

 BODY:
The United States budget deficit shrank to $23.97 billion in May from $38.78 billion in May a year ago, the Treasury Department said today, keeping the Government on track for a second consecutive annual surplus.
In the first eight months of the fiscal year 1999, which began last Oct. 1, the Federal budget is in surplus by $40.71 billion, more than twice the $15.96 billion surplus posted in the comparable first eight months of the fiscal year 1998. 
 The Clinton Administration has forecast a surplus for the full current fiscal year of $79.3 billion. That would be up from $69.2 billion a year earlier, when the United States posted its first surplus since 1969.
Earlier this month, the Congressional Budget Office said it now anticipated the Federal surplus for the fiscal year 1999 to top its current estimate of $111 billion, but it will not give a revised figure until July.
The economy, now in its ninth year of expansion, has swelled Treasury's coffers with rising tax revenues from individuals and corporations.
If the Government records back-to-back surpluses for the fiscal years 1998 and 1999 -- as now appears certain -- it will be the first time since the late 1950's that it has done so.
Revenues in May increased to $98.59 billion from $95.28 billion a year earlier in May 1998.
At the same time, spending on all Government programs from defense to Social Security payments declined to $122.56 billion, from $134.06 billion in May 1998.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



456 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS;
Job Oppty; Miracle Worker Preferred

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: LJUBLJANA, Slovenia, June 21

 BODY:
Wanted: civil administrator for Kosovo. Employer: United Nations.
Qualifications: "Someone with high energy, with organizing skills, with vision, with the ability to communicate," President Clinton said today in Bonn, Germany. 
 Candidates: "I'd give anything if I could do it," Mr. Clinton said. "It's a wonderful job, if you think about it."
When Mr. Clinton was asked at a news conference with the German Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, who was going to get the job of running Kosovo, he almost volunteered himself.
In doing so, he was highlighting NATO's difficulties in coming up with a person who could fulfill the job description: restoring a destroyed and brutalized province to a level of economic and political well-being. The post -- akin to that of proconsul -- needs to be filled in a hurry, as Kosovo society tries to repair itself.
Mr. Clinton said Washington did not have a particular candidate. The European Union countries have made it clear that they want a European for the job. Their reasoning: Since Washington has agreed that Europe should foot the bill for the reconstruction, then a European should direct it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); SLOVENIA (91%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; EUROPEAN UNION UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; EUROPEAN UNION UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); SLOVENIA (91%); BONN, GERMANY (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GERHARD SCHRODER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



457 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft's Final Antitrust Case Witness Stumbles a Bit

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21

 BODY:
The Microsoft Corporation's final witness testified today that in his view of the world, the very actions that landed the company in court on antitrust charges have greatly benefited consumers, computer manufacturers and every company that is doing business on the Internet.
Richard L. Schmalensee, dean of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is the last witness in the long- running antitrust trial, and the company is trying to use his testimony to rebut each of the principal charges the Government has raised in the last eight months. 
 He offered arguments and evidence making the case that nothing Microsoft had done had harmed consumers -- an important factor in the case. But in at least one instance, his strategy backfired.
Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, who is hearing the case without a jury, sat impassively through the morning as Michael Lacovara, a Microsoft lawyer, tossed easy questions at the witness. But the judge stepped in with a telling question as Mr. Schmalensee was trying to demonstrate that Microsoft had not engaged in predatory conduct by including a Web browser with the Windows operating system at no charge.
Mr. Schmalensee was standing before a sketch board presenting theoretical examples of predatory and nonpredatory conduct. In his first case, a company sold a product below cost, driving another company out of business. That, Mr. Schmalensee said, was clearly predatory.
He had moved on to a more benevolent example, when Judge Jackson interrupted him, speaking up for the first time today to ask: "Why isn't what Microsoft did in this case a more egregious example of case one?"
Mr. Schmalensee stumbled for a moment but then said Microsoft gained many other benefits from including a Web browser in Windows. Later he pointed out that in classic economic theory, a predator lowers prices until the competition is weakened or destroyed and then raises them to recoup his lost profits.
But, he noted, Microsoft had not raised prices, even though Government witnesses have said the competition, the Netscape Communications Corporation, has been so greatly weakened that the browser war is over.
Outside the courtroom, Mr. Lacovara said: "He's the final witness, testifying about the whole scope of the case. And our strategy is trying to find out what is on the judge's mind so we can address it."
The last time Mr. Schmalensee took the stand, in January, David Boies, the Government's lead attorney, suggested that he was Microsoft's "house economist" and compared his testimony in this case with seemingly contradictory arguments he made in the past. The effect was to suggest that Mr. Schmalensee offered whatever opinion suited the need of the moment.
Today Mr. Lacovara tried to turn the tables. He offered as evidence a fat binder of comments, articles and opinions that the Government's economist, Franklin M. Fisher, another M.I.T. professor, had offered over the years. And Mr. Lacovara intended to have Mr. Schmalensee help him demonstrate that they included contradictions.
As Mr. Fisher sat just behind him in the audience, Mr. Boies objected, complaining that it was not fair to try to impeach Mr. Fisher's testimony after he had already left the stand. The judge appeared ready to agree when Mr. Lacovara backed down.
Later, Mr. Schmalensee quarreled with Mr. Fisher's testimony that an economist ought to consider a company's intent when determining whether it was engaging in predatory conduct. That was not proper, he suggested. But Judge Jackson told him, "You know, judging intent is what we do every day. Juries are called on to do it all the time."
At another point, however, the judge seemed to help Mr. Lacovara. The lawyer was trying to make the case that America Online, now that it has bought the Netscape company, was in a position to challenge Microsoft's dominance in browser and operating system software, despite America Online's protestations to the contrary.
He showed a document to the judge and the witness that America Online had insisted be held under seal. But the judge summarily unsealed it, saying there was no justification for the classification.
The document was the text of America Online's presentation to the board of directors for the November meeting at which the board would vote to approve the purchase. And it showed that the company planned to aggressively promote Netscape -- even though, in public, America Online executives have said the Netscape business is close to dead.
The company was "willing to spend up to $10 per download" of Netscape "via promotions, contests, incentives and advertising to stimulate downloads," the report to the board said.
Mr. Lacovara asserted that America Online would be unlikely to spend that money on a product that was dead.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Murray, left, a Microsoft spokesman, and Vivek Varma, a company lawyer, leaving the court yesterday during a break in the antitrust trial in Washington. Microsoft's final witness testified. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); AOL (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MICROSOFT CORP (96%); AOL INC (63%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; STATES (US) ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); WITNESSES (93%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INTERNET BROWSERS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LITIGATION (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); 

PERSON: SCHMALENSEE, RICHARD L (DEAN); JACKSON, THOMAS PENFIELD (JUDGE); BRINKLEY, JOEL RICHARD L SCHMALENSEE (94%); MICHAEL LACOVARA (91%); FRANKLIN M FISHER (63%); THOMAS PENFIELD JACKSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



458 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
WeyerhaeuserAgrees to Buy MacMillan Bloedel for $2.45 Billion

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY PRITCHARD 

DATELINE: TORONTO, June 21

 BODY:
Weyerhaeuser Inc. said today that it had agreed to acquire MacMillan Bloedel Ltd., one of the biggest forestry companies in western Canada, in a stock deal valued at $2.45 billion.
The acquisition, if approved by shareholders and regulators, would solidify the position of Weyerhaeuser, which is based in Tacoma, Wash., as the world's largest producer of softwood lumber and pulp and strengthen its business in fiberboard and packaging. 
 Weyerhaeuser's chairman, Steven R. Rogel, described the acquisition as "an excellent strategic combination," which will increase annual sales by about 25 percent, to $13.3 billion. Weyerhaeuser has 35,000 employees in North America, with 5,900 of them in Canada. MacMillan Bloedel, based in Vancouver, British Columbia, employs 9,500 in Canada and the United States.
Shareholders of MacMillan Bloedel will receive 0.28 of a share of Weyerhaeuser -- or the same amount of stock in a new Canadian subsidiary of Weyerhaeuser, permitting favorable tax treatment for Canadian shareholders. The boards of both companies have agreed to the acquisition.
Weyerhaeuser shares fell 3.8 percent, or $2.625, to close at $67.125 on the New York Stock Exchange. MacMillan Bloedel shares surged 23 percent, or $3.3906, to close at $17.8281 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Nick Majendie, a senior vice president at Canaccord Capital in Vancouver, said the acquisition by Weyerhauser was good for shareholders of MacMillan Bloedel because "in the natural resource sector, bigger tends to be better."
But he warned that British Columbia's nationalistic New Democratic Party government, which controls the province's forest resources, could fight the takeover of MacMillan Bloedel, as it has done in the past.
MacMillan Bloedel was once one of Canada's strongest forestry companies. But like others with core operations in British Columbia, it has been hurt in recent years by low commodity prices, forest policies adopted by the province's New Democratic Party government, lumber import restrictions by the United States and the economic crises of several Asian economies, which ordinarily are big buyers of North American wood products.
MacMillan Bloedel underwent a huge restructuring in 1997, cutting its work force by 30 percent and selling certain fiberboard operations. It had been seeking a buyer for its packaging division, which led to the offer from Weyerhaeuser.
The Canadian company lost $368 million (Canadian) in 1997 but earned $42 million (Canadian) last year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WY (NYSE) (92%); CF (TSX) (56%); CF (LSE) (56%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (94%); NAICS322130 PAPERBOARD MILLS (92%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (92%); NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS113310 LOGGING (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (77%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); TACOMA, WA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: WEYERHAEUSER CO; MACMILLAN BLOEDEL LTD MACMILLAN BLOEDEL LTD (94%); WEYERHAEUSER CO (92%); CANACCORD FINANCIAL INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (55%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEYERHAEUSER CO; MACMILLAN BLOEDEL LTD DEMOCRATIC PARTY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (77%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); TACOMA, WA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LOGGING INDUSTRY FORESTRY & LOGGING (91%); SHAREHOLDERS (91%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (89%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (79%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); 

PERSON: ROGEL, STEVEN R; PRITCHARD, TIMOTHY STEVEN ROGEL (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



459 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
A Fund's Quick Slide From First to (Almost) Worst

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
In April, Janus 20 sat atop the mutual fund world. It was the best performer of any large stock fund, having doubled investors' money since the start of 1998. And it had taken in so much money so fast -- nearly $7 billion in four months -- that Janus said it would close the fund to "deliver superior performance."
Now, the fund has once more earned a prominent place on the performance charts -- this time, at the bottom. In fact, through Thursday, it ranked as the 15th-worst-performing general equity fund of 4,008 funds in the second quarter, according to Lipper, the Summit, N.J., mutual fund data company. 
 The fund's concentration in 20 to 30 stocks -- mostly big growth companies like America Online, Dell Computer, Microsoft and a handful of pharmaceutical companies -- carried it to lofty heights the last two years. But some of those same holdings proved a drag on performance this spring, when the strengthening global economy prompted investors to shift to shares of cyclical companies and other value stocks that had lagged behind the broader market.
So far this quarter, Janus 20 is down 4.4 percent, compared with a 5.2 percent gain in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and an 10.9 percent gain in the Dow Jones industrial average. That was in spite of a bounce the last week that lifted the fund's return from a loss of 13.2 percent for the quarter.
The decline shows the pitfalls of buying funds that have concentrated bets in one sector, especially in a volatile area like technology. It also demonstrates what so often happens to investors who rush into a fund before it closes: They regret it. In fact, investors often pick exactly the wrong time to throw their money in.
In this case, new money had been accumulating at Janus 20, which is managed by the Janus Capital Corporation, a unit of Kansas City Southern Industries, at an average of nearly $500 million a week before the fund was closed. According to AMG Data Services, an Arcata, Calif., fund-tracking company, the inflow peaked the week ended April 14 -- the height of I.R.A. season -- with investors pouring in $654.6 million just as the fund's performance began to slide.
Fund investors "tend to be very poor buyers in terms of timing, and the more volatile the area, the worse their timing decisions usually are," said Scott Cooley, an analyst at Morningstar Inc., the Chicago fund tracker. "There is a lot of risk in having all of your money pretty much in a specific style that is fairly volatile, and Janus has a lot of shareholders who have come to it recently."
Scott Schoelzel, the fund's manager, said yesterday that he was not altering his strategy. The portfolio is invested largely as it was at the start of the year, though Mr. Schoelzel said he had trimmed holdings in drug companies like Pfizer and Eli Lilly. "I should have recognized we were going to go into a period of time when the news flow from the pharmaceuticals was going to be less than upbeat," he said.
To complement the fund's biggest names, like America Online and Dell, Mr. Schoelzel said, he has been aggressively buying a few other large-capitalization growth stocks. He's also sitting on about 15 percent cash, though he says that's not a reflection of any bearishness.
"Realistically, I kind of expected there would be a period of time where the fund would have trouble," he said. "For the most part we didn't get shaken out of anything, but I've got to tell you, I have a lot more gray hair than I had in March."
The average stock in the fund is trading at close to 50 times earnings, according to Morningstar, high by almost any measure. Mr. Schoelzel's justification: Old valuation yardsticks do not mean much anymore. The market, he said, "is going to vacillate from being expensive to really expensive for a while."
He also does not buy the argument that investors ought to shift to stocks with lower valuations and cyclical stocks that rise with a strengthening economy. "It's amazing to me how panicky the market gets," he said, "to think we can change the direction" of the economy with the quarter-percentage-point rise in short-term interest rates that the Federal Reserve is expected to make at the end of the month.
Like Janus 20, many of the funds in the Janus group have their biggest positions in large-cap growth stocks, with a strong technology bent. The other funds have not taken such a beating, but as Janus 20 goes, so may they.
Janus, which is based in Denver, has a deep stable of analysts and more stock-picking talent than most firms, Mr. Cooley of Morningstar said. "But it's still very dangerous from a firm-wide perspective to have so many eggs in one basket," he added.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (94%); MORN (NASDAQ) (61%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); KSU (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL CORP; LIPPER ANALYTICAL SERVICES; AMERICA ONLINE; DELL COMPUTER CORP; MICROSOFT CORP JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (94%); MORNINGSTAR INC (61%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); AOL INC (56%); AMG DATA SERVICES (52%); KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: JANUS CAPITAL CORP; LIPPER ANALYTICAL SERVICES; AMERICA ONLINE; DELL COMPUTER CORP; MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BONDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); RANKINGS (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (53%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR SCOTT SCHOELZEL (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



460 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: PRESIDENT;
Clinton Lauds Slovenes for Resisting Serbs

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: LJUBLJANA, Slovenia, June 21

 BODY:
This tiny new nation perched on the Adriatic was held up today by President Clinton as a shining example of what was possible if a people decided to stand up to the ethnic terror of Slobodan Milosevic.
He came here, Mr. Clinton said, to draw attention to the fact that Southeastern Europe, now the favored name for the Balkans, could produce a country that is free and prosperous. Slovenia, Mr. Clinton added, had shown that it was possible to reject "the murderous rule" of Mr. Milosevic, the Yugoslav President. 
 Serbia has to "choose the path that Slovenia has chosen, where people reach across the old divides and find strength in their differences and their common humanity," Mr. Clinton said to a crowd of several thousand in the city square who had waited for hours in the rain.
Mr. Clinton's trip to Europe has centered on finding ways to rescue the debris caused by the conflict in Kosovo, patching together plans for aid packages to Kosovo and the rest of the region and mending the relationship with Russia.
By choosing the little known country of Slovenia, Mr. Clinton was trying to stress the positive. In June 1991, Slovenia declared independence from Yugoslavia, and when Mr. Milosevic sent in the Yugoslav Army, the Slovenians stood firm under the leadership of Milan Kucan, who is now President and whom Mr. Clinton met today. After what became known as a largely bloodless 10-day war, Slovenia declared independence.
Mr. Clinton congratulated the Slovenes, saying: "Eight years ago, Mr. Milosevic triggered a military assault on your nation. But you resisted. You secured your freedom. And you proclaimed it will never be the same again."
But in singling out Slovenia, Mr. Clinton dwelled on a place with unusual characteristics in the former Yugoslavia. Slovenia, a country of two million people, is almost ethnically and religiously unified. About 2 percent of the population are Serbs, and the country is overwhelmingly Roman Catholic. The Slovenes are proud of their own language, a Slavic language written in the Roman script, dating from the 12th century.
Since separating from Yugoslavia, Slovenia's economy has bounded ahead. The European Union granted Slovenia associate status, and the country is trying to meet targets that would allow it to join the European Union early in the next century.
In some ways, Mr. Clinton's trip was a reward for a large disappointment. Slovenia had banked on joining NATO, and its rejection for membership, along with Romania, several years ago, was a severe blow. Mr. Clinton tried to assuage the blow by saying today that Slovenia was "an excellent candidate for NATO." But he promised no more. When NATO will formally decide to expand further, after accepting Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic as members this year, remains an open question.
Mr. Clinton arrived from Bonn, Germany, where he attended a meeting of the United States and the European Union on trade and other issues. Near the top of the agenda again was organizing the reconstruction of Kosovo and the Balkans.
In Bonn, Mr. Clinton said he was in favor of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's idea of bringing leaders together in Sarajevo, perhaps as early as next month, to plan for the Balkans' future. Mr. Clinton said the gathering should be modeled after the development of the Marshall Plan, when the benefactors met with the devastated countries in Europe after World War II and fashioned a far-reaching rebuilding program.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Presidents Clinton and Milan Kucan before crowd yesterday in Ljubljana, Slovenia. Mr. Clinton singled out the relatively homogeneous country of two million because it stood firm when the Yugoslav Army was sent in. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SLOVENIA (99%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); KOSOVO (93%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MILAN, ITALY (69%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SLOVENIA; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SLOVENIA (99%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); KOSOVO (93%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); MILAN, ITALY (69%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SLOVENIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ARMIES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KUCAN, MILAN (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



461 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE SEPARATISTS;
Rebel General Planning A New Army for Kosovo

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Kosovo, June 21

 BODY:
The chief of the general staff of the Kosovo Liberation Army already has the formation of a future army for Kosovo planned out, even as he is preparing to disarm and demobilize his guerrilla force.
The rebel official, Gen. Agim Ceku, arrived today in Pristina, the Kosovo capital, dressed in his military fatigues, the red and yellow rebel insignia on his cap and sleeve, to mark the signing of the agreement to demilitarize. 
 General Ceku, 38, has emerged in the last three months as the leading military figure of the Albanian separatist force in Kosovo. He is the man who negotiated the bulk of the agreement on demilitarization, and who will be responsible for carrying it outwith Lieut. Gen. Sir Michael Jackson, the commander of the Kosovo peacekeeping force.
In an interview today, he said he had no doubt that Kosovo would need its own army for its future defense, and he mapped out his vision for such a force in detail.
He said he would seek to form "a defensive army from a small number of soldiers, respecting our economic resources, the level of danger we face and the demographics of Kosovo."
He said that under his plan, a Kosovo army would have a small active core of professional soldiers and a larger component of reserves. He said he also envisioned an "intervention unit," similar to the National Guard in the United States.
As he sees it, such a fighting force would be formed within the contours of collective security in Europe, since Kosovo would want to take part in Western European alliances, he said.
"We will respect all the standards of NATO, at the same time staying loyal to our national and historical traditions," he said.
General Ceku, a Kosovo Albanian, got his military training in the Yugoslav Army under the former Communist government. In 1991, as several of the republics that had been part of Yugoslavia declared their independence, he joined the Croatian Army and was rapidly promoted to the rank of general. He resigned his commission there to return, in March, to fight against Serbian forces with the Kosovo rebels. He was appointed their chief of staff in April.
The general said the decision to demilitarize had been a very hard one for the rebels. He said that "one of the biggest victories of the war was that for the first time" Kosovo Albanians had their own fighting force, adding: "And every decision that is made to lower the standing of the army is really hard. But all the soldiers of the K.L.A. and the people of Kosovo, we all want to be part of the democratic world, and every decision of the international community is an obligation for us too, even when it is not in our favor."
The commanders and their men would comply with the agreement to disarm, he said, because the international community had guaranteed to take into consideration the rebels' experience and role in the conflict when recruiting people for the new institutions being established in Kosovo.
Hashim Thaci, the rebels' political leader, who signed the demilitarization agreement, said today that the general was "respected by all."
"His association with the K.L.A. was from the very start of its organization in the early 1990's, and he was instrumental in structuring the K.L.A. into a more professional force," Mr. Thaci said in a separate interview today.
A Western official who had seen General Ceku in his mountain headquarters said rebel commanders had appeared deferential to the general.
The general defended his headquarters over the last three months from a major Serbian offensive.
Mr. Thaci appeared confident that the order to demilitarize would be obeyed. "A soldier did not get his weapon to keep in his hand or in his house," he said. "He got it to fight to liberate Kosovo from Serbia. That objective is realized, and our objective now is to restructure and integrate ourselves into society."
General Ceku said the rebel force had swelled to 20,000 during the last month of the conflict. Until March, when the NATO bombing began, he said, the force had consisted of 12,000 fighters and 4,000 to 5,000 unarmed volunteers.
About 1,500 rebels were killed and 4,000 wounded during the 15 months the rebels fought Yugoslav troops, he said. About 100 are missing.
The general contended that the Serbian offensive had strengthened the rebel group. "It drew more people to our ranks, and it gave us new military experience," he said, "and by surviving the offensive we gained the faith of the people. Without the bombing, the Albanian people would have suffered much more."
He said he believed that President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia had planned an ethnic purge of Kosovo Albanians whether NATO had begun its bombing campaign or not.
And he said he would move down to Pristina from his mountain hideout. A headquarters has already been selected in the wealthy suburb of Kojlovica, the gate guarded by uniformed soldiers bearing no weapons.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gen. Agim Ceku served in the Yugoslav and Croatian armies before joining the Kosovo rebels. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (97%); SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); CROATIA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); 

COMPANY: KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (91%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (91%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); KOSOVO (97%); SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); CROATIA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DISARMAMENT (77%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); 

PERSON: GALL, CARLOTTA; CEKU, AGIM (GEN) MICHAEL JACKSON (56%); MICHAEL JACKSON (56%); MICHAEL A JACKSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



462 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Prices Suffer Their Largest Decline in More Than a Week

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bond prices suffered their biggest drop in more than a week as the Treasury and the Ford Motor Credit Company led borrowers selling at least $18 billion of debt this week.
The Government will auction $15 billion of two-year notes tomorrow, while Ford plans to issue at least $3 billion of debt, part of a program to sell multibillion-dollar blocks of bonds to international investors. 
 "It'll be tough for the market to rally before those sales," said Anne Kennedy, who helps invest $2 billion at Columbia Partners Investment Management in Washington.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 20/32 , to 89 14/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.02 percent, from 5.97 percent on Friday. Yields on two-year notes, the most actively traded securities, rose to 5.59 percent from 5.54 percent.
Ms. Kennedy said she was staying away from the Ford sale because the company would probably issue more securities this year, and that might lower the value of older Ford debt.
Last week, bonds enjoyed their best gain in eight months after a report showed no inflation and comments by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, convinced many investors that an expected increase in short-term interest rates next week would be pre-emptive.
In addition to the monthly two-year note auction, the Treasury sold $15 billion of three- and six-month bills yesterday and will offer $10 billion of one-year bills today.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.835	97.548	High Rate	4.61%	4.85%	Coupon Yield	4.74%	5.05%	Low Rate	4.53%	4.75%	Median Rate	4.59%	4.85%	Total applied for	$29,467,310	$29,763,965	Accepted	$10,885,290	$11,067,840	Noncompetitive	$1,297,416	$1,004,997	
Both issues are dated June 24, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 23, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 23, 1999.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FORD MOTOR CO (92%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



463 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Rise in Technology Lifts Nasdaq and S.& P. but Dow Falls

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Optimism that second-quarter earnings will be strong pushed technology stocks up for the fifth straight session yesterday. But a rise in interest rates hurt cyclical stocks, and the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average closed lower.
But paced by gains in well-known names like Microsoft, Cisco Systems, Amazon.com and Yahoo, the Nasdaq composite index soared 66.84 points, to 2,630.28, or 2.6 percent. That, after the 4.7 percent gain the index recorded last week, put the Nasdaq up just under 20 percent for the year. 
 "The expectation is that this earnings season will reflect a very strong economy in the first half, and the bargain hunters are going to technology stocks because they have the best prospects," said Richard E. Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason in Baltimore.
But optimistic talk about earnings did not lead to a surge in business on the floor of the exchanges.
Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange remained fairly light, with only 686.6 million shares changing hands. On the Nasdaq, 895 million shares were traded.
Optimism about second-quarter earnings also helped lift brokerage stocks. A number of companies, including Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, are expected to report their second-quarter results this week.
Among brokerage firm stocks, Charles Schwab soared 8 1/4, to 98 1/4; Goldman Sachs 4 11/16 , to 69 1/2; Lehman Brothers 4 1/4, to 60 5/16 , and Morgan Stanley 4, to 99 3/4.
The rise in interest rates, which pushed long-term bond yields back above 6 percent, depressed cyclical stocks, however. Led by Alcoa, Chevron, General Electric and Exxon, which each fell more than 2, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 39.58 points, or four-tenths of a percent, to 10,815.98.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.16, or five-tenths of a percent, to 1,349, bolstered by gains in technology stocks, including America Online and Lucent Technologies, and finance company shares, including Chase Manhattan. America Online gained 3 3/8, to 115 3/8, and Lucent rose 2 7/16 , to 65 3/8. Chase added 3 3/8, to 83 1/2.
Small-company stocks also had a good day.
The Russell 2000 index of small- company shares rose 4.39, or 1 percent, to 449.44. And TheStreet.com's Internet stock index soared 30.17 points, or 5.4 percent, to 594.51.
Interest rates have been the dominant concern of stock traders the last few weeks. But anxiety about rising rates eased last week after the release of reassuring news about inflation and a comparatively straightforward talk by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan.
"Right now, the overwhelming sense is that the Fed will tighten at the end of the month, and at worst once more sometime after that," said William Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. "I think we are going to have a better tone to the bond market. If that happens, then we could have an explosive move to the upside in stocks."
Among big technology stocks, Microsoft gained 3 15/16 , to 88 15/16 ; Cisco Systems 3 3/4, to 123 1/8, and Sun Microsystems 4 1/2, to 68 9/16 .
Of the Dow stocks, I.B.M. gained 4 to 124 3/4, and Hewlett-Packard rose 2 1/8, to 93 7/8.
A drop in crude oil and gasoline futures prices hit oil and oil service stocks. Chevron, a Dow component, fell 2 1/2, to 90 11/16 ; Exxon fell 2 1/8, to 78 1/4. Halliburton slid 2 1/16 , to 43 13/16 , and Schlumberger fell 1 1/2, to 63.
Among Internet stocks, Yahoo, shot up 14 7/16 , to 158 7/8, on a report it would raise its investment in Japan.
Elsewhere, Weyerhaeuser, the big forestry company, slid 2 5/8, to 67 1/8, after it said it had agreed to buy MacMillan Bloedel of Canada for $2.45 billion.
Boeing fell 1 5/8, to 43, after the top sales executive of its rival, Airbus Industrie, said the company had risked reviving a price war.
Coca-Cola, plagued by continuing worries and official sales bans in several European countries after reports of illness among consumers last week, saw its stock slip again yesterday. At the close, Coke shares were down 1 7/8, to 61 9/16.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); ALU (PAR) (81%); ALU (NYSE) (81%); ALU (BIT) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); LM (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (55%); SCHW (NYSE) (54%); AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); TST (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (81%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); LEGG MASON INC (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (54%); ALCOA INC (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); AOL INC (52%); THESTREET INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BOND MARKETS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



464 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
All in the Family

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM

 BODY:
Jewish Jerusalem used to just be divided between secular and religious. Today the divide is so much more profound. This city is now part Teheran, part Palo Alto. It has one foot in cyberspace and the other in the Second Temple. Part of Jerusalem's youth have Bill Gates as their role model and another part the fiddler on the roof.
In Jerusalem's Har Hotzvim district, Israeli companies are designing the next generation of the Internet. Indeed, outside of Silicon Valley, Israel's Silicon Wadi is now the most dynamic producer of Internet technologies -- notably Internet security systems -- in the world. Yet a mile away from Har Hotzvim, in Jerusalem's ultra-Orthodox Mea Shearim neighborhood, wall posters now regularly appear warning residents not to have Internet-linked computers in their homes because of the worlds it might open. These ultra-Orthodox don't like windows or Windows. 
 This is why the recent Israeli election was actually two revolts at once. The first was a revolt by the secular fundamentalists -- the high priests of high tech, who are powering the dynamic, computer side of the Israeli economy. They voted in droves for ultra-secular parties, as a way of saying to the no-tech religious fundamentalists that the secularists were no longer going to let their tax dollars, generated from 21st-century innovations, be used to fund 18th-century ghetto schools, where kids are given no math, science or computing skills that might prepare them for the future. (Israel has no core curriculum, so you can teach whatever you want, even in state-financed schools.)
The counter-revolt was by the ultra-Orthodox and traditional Sephardic Jews, who rallied in droves to the Shas Party, making it the third-largest in Israel, just behind Likud. Their message was: "Once again we are being left behind. We have been here for three generations, but new Russian immigrants, many of them not really Jews, have come in with their education and skills and leapfrogged over us. So we're voting Shas to express our rejection of the yuppified, Internet-obsessed, secularizing elites, who want to keep us down and assimilate Israel into global mush."
How Ehud Barak manages these twin revolts will be the domestic drama in Israel. It will be worth watching because how modern, liberal democracies deal with such fundamentalist social-protest movements is now a worldwide challenge. We've seen three strategies: The first was used by Bibi Netanyahu (and his Labor predecessors), which was to try to buy off Shas by plying it with state funds in return for political support. But that resulted in Shas sending thousands of kids to its own schools, where they learned virtually no skills and became wards of the state.
The second is the Algerian model: Simply crush the fundamentalists. The third model was tried (and failed) in Turkey: Bring the fundamentalists into power, but set some real limits on them to force them toward modernity. This is the model that Mr. Barak will attempt by bringing Shas into his coalition.
There is one reason for hope. Shas now has an internal contradiction: It has been so successful at attracting non-Orthodox Sephardic youth (Shas won 13 percent of the army vote!) that it will have to be increasingly sensitive to their demands -- and these non-Orthodox Sephardim want better schools and skills, so they can compete with the Russians. So Shas itself needs to find a road to modernity without losing its identity.
The state has to help them do that. It should begin by changing the law that says anyone who shuns army service for religious reasons can't hold a job and must stay in yeshiva. Israel needs to let those Shas youth, who for religious reasons don't want to serve in the army, be able to work if they so choose. "There is nothing that says Orthodox people can't work with computers," says Shlomo Kalish, the Orthodox founder of Jerusalem Global, one of Jerusalem's most dynamic high-tech venture capital companies. "In fact, yeshiva graduates can make great programmers. They are used to sitting for long hours working on logic problems. But the Government has to set them free to work, even if they choose not to serve in the army."
My hope is that Mr. Barak's motto will be: "Draft Shas into the 21st century, not the army." Nothing would do more to begin healing Israel's internal divide. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (96%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: INTERNET SECURITY SYSTEMS INC (57%); SHAS PARTY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHAS PARTY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (96%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT RELIGION (95%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CURRICULA (69%); POLITICS (67%); CORE CURRICULUM (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); IMMIGRATION (61%); LIBERALISM (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); BILL GATES (56%); EHUD BARAK (56%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



465 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2285 words

HEADLINE: STOPGAP MEDICINE: A special report.;
For the Uninsured, Drug Trials Are Health Care

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA and KURT EICHENWALD 

 BODY:
Carole Danforth's asthma had gotten the best of her. No longer did she have the energy for activities she loved, like playing with her grandchildren or doing yardwork. Some days, her breathing was so labored she could not get up from the couch. And there seemed little she could do about it: Ms. Danforth, a 51-year-old housecleaner in Taunton, Mass., had no insurance and little money for doctors or the inhalers she needed when her condition was at its worst.
Then, two years ago, her life changed. Friends told her of a doctor who was offering free examinations and drugs as part of a study of an experimental asthma medication. Perhaps, the friends suggested, the doctor could help her. 
 The doctor, Michael Lawrence, was soon providing Ms. Danforth with free diagnostic tests -- including a chest X-ray she could never have afforded -- to determine if she was eligible. Ms. Danforth was accepted for the study and within days Dr. Lawrence gave her a free, but unapproved, medication for asthma. Her breathing returned to normal.
Ms. Danforth had finally found her access to health care -- albeit one where a medicine she finds effective lasts only as long as the study. As a result, she has become one of a growing number of drug-trial nomads, wandering from study to study as they become available.
"I can't keep track of them all," Ms. Danforth said of the drug studies in which she has participated. "But I haven't felt this good in a long time."
In recent years, the need for test subjects in experimental drug trials has exploded as the industry has brought to market an ever-increasing number of new products. In response, drug companies have developed new methods of finding participants for the trials by turning to private-practice doctors who recruit from their lists of patients. But even that influx of participants has not been enough to satisfy the demand.
Filling the gap, according to industry officials and researchers, are people like Ms. Danforth: chronically ill with limited or no health insurance, relying on clinical trials by private doctors as their primary source of medical care. For these people, experiments have become treatments; clinical investigators are their specialists.
Medical experts recognize the shortcomings of this system. On the one hand, the doctors are white knights, providing a critical service that such patients cannot obtain any other way. Patients "are better off getting experimental therapy than no therapy at all," Paul Menzel, a philosophy professor at Pacific Lutheran University in Tacoma, Wash., said.
But the benefit can be fleeting or nonexistent. Chronically ill patients with no other options can be treated with an experimental medication that does not work or that even worsens their condition. Or they can end up with a placebo -- a dummy pill or treatment -- rather than the medication itself. And once the study is over, usually in a matter of weeks, they are left to their own devices. They can be barred by the rules of one clinical trial from participating in another study for months, forcing them to rely on samples of medications provided by drug companies or to go without treatment altogether.
That leaves many patients in a sad position: Having tasted, for a moment, how good life can be when their conditions are controlled, they are plunged back into a life of disabling symptoms.
"Studies are becoming like a stopgap" with the private doctors, said Dr. Richard A. Friedman, director of the psychopharmacology clinic at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. "And that's pretty bad, taking from them what they need and then tossing them back."
That description underscores a hard fact of medical research: The subjects of drug trials are not, technically speaking, being treated for a disease. Rather, they are participating in an experiment.
"One will often hear from physicians and economists that there is always a way for them to get medical care, so this must be one of the ways," said Norman Daniels, a professor of philosophy at Tufts University who specializes in ethics and health policy. "In my view, it does not count as medical care."
 
The Trend
Uninsured Pursue Unaffordable Care
Nobody tracks how many uninsured people seek health care from clinical studies, but researchers agree that they number in the thousands and that their ranks are growing.
The result is that researchers in areas with many poor people often have the best chance of attracting research subjects. "That's one of the reasons that we have been so successful," Dr. Paul Chervinsky, medical director at New England Clinical Studies in New Bedford, Mass., said. "New Bedford has always been an economically deprived area."
Even people with insurance plans that impose significant restrictions -- like managed care programs that require pre-approval to visit a specialist -- are circumventing the gatekeepers by seeking out clinical trials, researchers said.
"A lot of patients tell me that they feel frustrated with the care that they receive from the H.M.O.," said Dr. Norman Zinner, a Los Angeles doctor who heads Affiliated Research Centers, an organization of private-practice urologists who do drug studies. "They want to know if they might be eligible for a drug study so that they could get relief."
Of course, the poor have long been participants in drug studies, usually through university medical centers. But once a study is completed those institutions often direct the patients to other university programs that provide health care to the poor -- programs that private doctors who normally see only paying patients have few dealings with.
The benefits for test subjects are obvious. For many, a clinical trial offers a rare opportunity for a full diagnostic workup by a medical specialist as well as access, at no charge, to the latest treatments.
"Arkansas is not a wealthy state, and most of the drug studies that we do provide the patient with free medication," said Lin Richardson, director of practice management at Baptist Health Systems, which operates a network of private practices in Little Rock that conduct drug studies involving a large number of uninsured patients. "It is amazing what I have seen happen for some of our patients."
 
The Ethics
Right and Wrong On the Frontier
Ethical qualms arise from the fact that clinical trials are not intended to be medical care. In this context, the doctors are investigators, not personal physicians. The drugs are often experimental, and no one knows for sure whether they work. On top of that, because many clinical trials compare an active drug with a placebo, the patients often stand as good a chance of receiving no treatment.
Clinical trials also raise a problem never experienced in true patient care: Even if a test medication improves the health of a chronically ill person, the drugs will no longer be supplied once the study ends.
Some researchers and study co-ordinators strive to avoid that outcome. "I believe it's a violation of human rights" to keep patients dangling untreated between studies, said Maria Lopez, a study coordinator for Dr. Herbert Rubin, a gastroenterologist in Beverly Hills, Calif. Dr. Rubin provides his uninsured test subjects with drug company samples between tests, a practice that Ms. Lopez said was frowned upon by the companies.
"Drug company representatives will be like: 'Remember, you have to give these to patients who will actually buy,' " Ms. Lopez said.
Other researchers refuse to allow the uninsured to use drug studies for medical care.
"It's not right that some people would give the patient the false impression that they are getting full medical care when they are not," said Dr. Thomas Littlejohn, who directs Piedmont Medical Group in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Told of the trend, medical ethicists were divided. Some expressed concern, saying that vulnerable patients were being coerced through the lure of medical care to put their bodies on the line.
"It becomes a further exploitation of the poor," John Paris, an ethics professor at Boston College, said.
But others were less certain, noting that the trend presented new options for getting care to people whose choices were limited.
"It is a nasty dilemma," Professor Menzel said. "There is no way you can win on this one."
 
The Patients
A Roller Coaster Without Relief
 When Victor Miranda saw Dr. Rubin's ad in La Opinion, a Spanish language newspaper in Los Angeles, he did not even call ahead for an appointment.
Instead, Mr. Miranda, a 37-year-old house painter from Guatemala, hopped on a bus in the morning and traveled an hour and a half to Dr. Rubin's office. He said through a translator that he had suffered from heartburn and agonizing stomach pain for two years but had not seen a doctor because he could not pay for it.
Dr. Rubin determined that he had an inflamed esophagus, an easily treatable condition, and enrolled Mr. Miranda in a study comparing drugs developed by Astra Pharmaceuticals.
The paradoxes of such experiences are not lost on patients. While most praise the doctors who conduct the research, many also resent the compromises they have to make.
"The health care they give you is really specific for what they're testing for," said Elizabeth Elder, a 52-year-old uninsured woman in Albuquerque, N.M., who has participated in a number of studies, "so it isn't really health care."
Others are simply grateful for whatever medical attention they can get.
In Lemoyne, Ohio, Roland and Linda Gladieux were looking for drug studies to get relief from a host of medical problems. They could not afford insurance; the cheapest policy they could find cost $500 a month with a $2,500 deductible and paid only 70 percent of medical costs above that.
Mr. Gladieux, a burly 51-year-old who manages a car-repair shop, has a chronic wheezing cough. He had gone to a doctor who wanted to test him for emphysema, but Mr. Gladieux declined, unable to afford the tests. So when he saw an advertisement on television late last year seeking people with chronic bronchitis, he jumped at the chance.
The ad was placed by Dr. John Winder, an asthma and allergy specialist in Sylvania, Ohio, who does drug studies alongside his private practice. The bronchitis study was already fully enrolled when Mr. Gladieux called. But Dr. Winder's recruiters told him of studies for other ailments. Learning that a heartburn study was opening, Mr. Gladieux offered his wife, who has had severe heartburn for 20 years. She got into the study.
"It was a godsend," Mrs. Gladieux said. The experimental medication cleared up her heartburn and for the first time in years she could eat foods like lasagna without suffering.
Now the heartburn study is over and the Gladieuxes are looking for other drug studies to join -- bronchitis for him, heartburn for her. Or almost anything.
"I have arthritis real bad," Mrs. Gladieux said. When she saw Dr. Winder for her last visit in the heartburn study she asked him to keep her in mind. "I told him if anything comes up, give me a call," she said.
The financial difficulties that lead patients to choose experiments for their health care are not limited to people with little or no insurance. Adriana Medina, a 24-year-old medical assistant in Tucson, Ariz., has health insurance through a health maintenance organization. The plan paid for her 8-year-old daughter, Gabriela Garcia, to see a pediatrician for her asthma. But when that failed to help, the plan would not pick up the cost of a specialist.
"She was on so many medications, and she was constantly sucking on the breathing machine," Ms. Medina said. "It was just a roller coaster ride. She was never well."
Unable to afford the specialist, Ms. Medina enrolled Gabriela in a drug study conducted by a local asthma expert, Dr. Jay Grossman. "Just hearing that it was an asthma specialist I said, 'Hey, what do I have to lose?' " she said.
The experimental asthma drug changed Gabriela's life. The trial "is allowing her to have a normal childhood," Ms. Medina said.
"My only worry," she added, "is that the study will be over and she'll be back where she started from."
The completion of a study can be a poignant moment, several doctors said, especially when the subjects, like Gabriela Garcia, finally received medical help that had eluded them. The subjects spent weeks or months sitting in waiting rooms with private patients, filling out the same forms and looking through the same magazines as everyone else. Their diagnostic tests were done in the usual exam rooms, and they received drugs just like private patients. Then the study ended and the subjects had to leave.
"They have had more medical care from me than they have had from anybody for years," Dr. Winder said. "It is hard for them to understand that they are not my patients."
In the end, if no new clinical trials are available to them, that reality can leave patients feeling frightened and abandoned. Josette Good, a 60-year-old widow, used to count on Dr. Winder to keep her enrolled in study after study for asthma. But last year, she moved to Lake Milton, Ohio, near her children but 200 miles from Dr. Winder's office.
Now, medical care has become an issue; adequate health insurance is beyond her budget, and Dr. Winder could not help her find a study in her area. She has only one inhaler left, from the last study she participated in, so she uses it sparingly, at times borrowing another from a friend. Hoping to make her inhaler last through the summer, she limits her activities, avoiding yardwork and even short walks.
"It's just so tough," Mrs. Good said. "I pray nothing happens."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carole Danforth is a drug-trial nomad, depending on research projects to get asthma medicine. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Joshua Birkholz, 6, of Tuscon, Ariz., is screened for his next asthma drug test by Evelyn Grohregin, a nurse, and Dr. Jay Grossman. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times); Victor Miranda neglected his stomach pain for two years until he entered a drug research project under Dr. Herbert Rubin of Beverly Hills, Calif. (Edward Carreon for The New York Times); Linda Gladieux of Lemoyne, Ohio, got help with heartburn, but her husband, Roland, missed out on tests of a bronchitis drug. (Madalyn Ruggiero for The New York Times)(pg. C12)
 
Graphs: "A Growing Pool"
The number of people without health insurance has grown steadily over the last decade, creating a larger pool of people who may turn to clinical trials as a way to get medical care.
 
Graph plots total number of uninsured, from 1987 through 1997.
 
1997 income breakdown
 
$75,000 or more: 11.2%
$50,000-$74,999: 13.1%
$25,000-$49,999: 33.4%
Less than $25,000: 42.3%
 
1997 employment breakdown (Ages 18-64)
 
Worked full time: 57.8%
Did not work: 24.1%
Worked part time: 18.1%
 
1997 figures are latest available.
 
(Source: Census Bureau)(pg. C12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: TACOMA, WA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); WASHINGTON, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); TACOMA, WA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; TESTS AND TESTING; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); DOCTORS ASTHMA (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); INVESTIGATIONAL DRUGS (76%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); RADIOLOGY (71%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (71%); PHILOSOPHY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA; EICHENWALD, KURT JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



466 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: White House Tries to Defuse Push for SteelImport Quotas

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21

 BODY:
With the Senate poised to act Tuesday on a bill that would sharply restrict the amount of imported steel in the United States, the Clinton Administration took a series of actions today to convince Congress that it could protect the jobs of American steelworkers with far less drastic measures.
The actions, announced by Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, include an inquiry into whether cold-rolled steel is being "dumped" in the United States at unfairly low prices. The moves appeared intended to stem the number of Democrats in the Senate who have said they will vote for the steel quota bill, which would roll imports back to 1997 levels and has been pressed by steelworkers and manufacturers. The bill, which the Administration denounces as protectionist, already sailed through the House 289 to 141. 
 In the latest in a series of confrontations over trade policy with his own party, President Clinton has promised to veto the measure if it reaches his desk. But the White House desperately wants to avoid that step because it would cause enormous political pain to Vice President Al Gore, who is trying to court the votes of the United Steelworkers of America, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and voters in steelmaking states.
"This is agony for Gore," one senior Administration official said, "because it puts him in the position of angering supporters whom he needs very much. And the Republicans know it."
The White House argues -- and many trade experts agree -- that the bill's import quotas would violate global trade treaties. It is usually a violation of trade rules to set a unilateral limit on many imported goods, and the United States has protested similar actions by other countries.
There is little doubt it would be struck down if challenged before the World Trade Organization -- though the legal arguments could drag on for years.
The likely violation of America's trade commitments, however, carried little sway with the House in March. And those arguments may not overcome political pressure in the Senate. Hundreds of steelworkers plan to raise those pressures on Tuesday morning after a noisy arrival outside the Senate on a fleet of Harley-Davidson motorcycles.
"There is a convergence of agendas here," said Gary Hubbard, the spokesman for the United Steelworkers. "This is an emergency restraint measure to save high-wage jobs. And there are Republicans who want to see Vice President Gore associated with the White House position against this bill."
Mr. Daley, in the midst of a day of lobbying against the bill on Capitol Hill, announced today that as an alternative he was beginning an investigation into whether cold-rolled steel from Japan, China, Russia, Brazil, Indonesia, Thailand and other nations was being dumped in the United States. Four of those nations received financial bailouts led by the United States over the last two years and have been exporting aggressively -- in part at the advice of the International Monetary Fund -- to get back on their feet.
But that export strategy has already begun to cost a relatively modest number of jobs in smaller steelmaking factories nationwide. Mr. Daley argued today that there were ways of dealing with that job loss short of sending a message that the United States was closing its doors to imports -- and opening the way to retaliation against American goods.
"What kind of message would we send if we -- as the world's leading economic power, riding the wave of an historic sustained expansion and the one bright spot during the long months of economic turmoil elsewhere in the world -- now send the message that we intend to close our borders and violate international trading rules?" Mr. Daley asked.
As in many trade arguments, the White House has lost more Democrats than Republicans. Chief among them is Senator Jay Rockefeller, the West Virginia Democrat whose state includes Weirton Steel and other large manufacturers.
"We're doing very well putting the votes together," Mr. Rockefeller said this afternoon. "The White House is clearly scared about how far this has come, because this has everything to do with Gore's future."
However, another Democratic Senator, Max Baucus of Montana, said in an interview that he had decided to vote against the measure because "it would encourage other countries to retaliate against us, in agriculture and other areas." Mr. Baucus's state is a leading exporter of farm goods, an easy target for retaliation.
Mr. Gore has said little about the bill, apparently seeking not to anger union members and others whose support he seeks. But this evening, pressed to state a position on the bill, his office issued a brief statement:
"The Vice President believes legislated quotas on steel imports are unnecessary. The Administration has turned back the import surge through tough enforcement of U.S. trade laws, and we will continue working with the steel industry and unions on eliminating unfair trade practices, on early-warning mechanisms, on companies damaged by the import surge and other measures to deal with excess capacity."
But clearly Mr. Gore's hope is to avoid a vote altogether.
That was the strategy in announcing new dumping investigations today involving cold-rolled steel, which is used to make cars, bicycles and household appliances. But it will take months before the Commerce Department issues a final ruling on whether dumping is taking place. In the far more lucrative area of hot-rolled steel, the Commerce Department and the International Trade Commission just approved punitive tariffs against Japan.
The Administration argues that its administrative actions have worked and that steel imports are subsiding. But the unions and steelmakers interpret the data very differently, and they have demanded protection.
It could turn out to be expensive protection. A study by the Institute for International Economics earlier this month estimates that restricting imports will send prices up significantly for cars, construction materials and other steel products. The report, prepared by Gary Hufbauer and Erika Wada, estimated that the bill would preserve the jobs of 1,700 workers at an annual cost to consumers of $800,000 a worker.
The bill would not ban all steel imports, but rather would limit them to 1997 levels. The Administration argues that steel imports are falling back to that level anyway. "If that is the case," Mr. Rockefeller said, "then the penalties won't go into effect and they have nothing to worry about."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Commerce Secretary William M. Daley answering questions yesterday in Washington. (Associated Press)(pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HOG (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (50%); 

COMPANY: HARLEY-DAVIDSON INC (52%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); AFL-CIO (55%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); AFL-CIO (55%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; QUOTAS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DUMPING (TRADE TERM); ELECTION ISSUES; VETOES (US) IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); MOTORCYCLES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); BAILOUTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); SANGER, DAVID E; DALEY, WILLIAM M (SEC) AL GORE (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



467 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

For Many, Drug Testing Is Becoming Medical Care
In recent years, the need for test subjects in experimental drug trials has exploded as the industry has brought to market an ever-increasing number of new products. In response, drug companies have developed new methods of finding participants for the trials by turning to private-practice doctors who recruit from their lists of patients. 
 But even that influx of participants has not been enough to satisfy the demand. Filling the gap, according to industry officials and researchers, are chronically ill patients with limited or no health insurance who rely on clinical trials as their primary source of medical care. For these people, experiments have become treatments. Page A1.
 
White House Tries to Stop Steel Bill
With the Senate poised to act today on a bill that would sharply restrict the amount of imported steel in the United States, the Clinton Administration took steps to convince Congress that it could protect the jobs of steelworkers with far less drastic measures. A1.
 
U.S. Clears Purchase of Prudential
Over the objections of doctors' groups and consumer advocates, the Government approved the $1 billion acquisition of Prudential Health Care by Aetna, which will create the nation's biggest managed-care company, on the condition that Aetna sell its NYLCare Health Maintenance Organization in the Dallas-Fort Worth and Houston markets. A1.

Coca-Cola Apologizes to Belgium
M. Douglas Ivester, the chairman of Coca-Cola, apologized to the people of Belgium in extraordinarily contrite newspaper ads over a contamination scare that began there more than a week ago and spread to other countries in Europe. But he stopped short of conceding that Coke products made anyone sick. Coke's efforts to end its image crisis came as officials from the European Union said they wanted to review all data on the causes of the scare. C4.
 
Hong Kong to Create Mutual Fund
The Government of Hong Kong, 10 months after plunging into the stock market to fend off what it called an improper speculative attack, said that it would sell most of its enormous portfolio of shares by creating a mutual fund that tracks the Hang Seng stock index. C4.
 
Nasdaq Surges, But Dow Slides
Optimism that second-quarter earnings will be strong pushed technology stock prices up. The Nasdaq composite index soared 66.84 points, to 2,630.28. But a rise in interest rates hurt cyclical stocks, and the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average closed down 39.58 points, to 10,815.98. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.16 points, to 1,349.00. C16.
 
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.02 percent. C16.
 
America Online Investing in Hughes
America Online will invest $1.5 billion in Hughes Electronics as part of an alliance that will allow the on-line service to offer high-speed Internet access using the Hughes satellite data delivery system. Under the agreement, Hughes will market AOL TV, an interactive television service, to the seven million subscribers of its DirecTV satellite TV service. In turn, America Online will market DirecTV and DirecPC, Hughes's high-speed, satellite-based Internet access service, to its 16 million United States subscribers. Shares of Hughes rose $3.1875 to $56.625. C6.
 
Weyerhaeuser in Acquisition Deal
Weyerhaeuser, the forest-products company, agreed to acquire MacMillan Bloedel in a stock deal valued at $2.45 billion. C4.
 
Witness: Microsoft Benefits Many
Microsoft's final witness in its antitrust trial said that the actions that landed the company in court have greatly benefitted consumers, computer makers and companies doing business on the Internet. C2.
 
Albertson's Acquisition Closer
Federal officials have agreed that they will not block Albertson's pending $8.3 billion purchase of American Stores. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,815.98 down 39.58
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.02% up 0.05
The Dollar -- 122.42 yen up 1.98

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (90%); HONG KONG (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (54%); AOL INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (90%); HONG KONG (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (85%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BONDS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); INDEX FUNDS (67%); ONLINE TRADING (67%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); COMPANY EARNINGS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



468 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Funabashi Journal;
He Watched Over His Rackets; Now It's His Flock

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: FUNABASHI, Japan

 BODY:
Elaborate tattoos of a carp and mythic characters of great strength work their way from his pectoral muscles, over his shoulders, down his arms and across his upper back.
The tips of his pinkie fingers are conspicuously missing. And his teeth, capped to perfection, provide more evidence of Hiroyuki Suzuki's organized-crime credentials. 
 But while his flesh brands him a member of the yakuza, Japan's storied underworld, he now says his allegiance is to Jesus.
Mr. Suzuki, 43, formerly a member of the Sakaume gumi, a small independent crime family best known for its role in gambling, is the founder of Mission Barabbas, an evangelical Christian church in this Tokyo suburb, and a minister in the church.
Mission Barabbas features the brand of tongue-speaking, faith-healing, arm-waving Christianity popular in parts of America but a distinct oddity in Japan.
Historically, Christianity in Japan has prevailed only among a small number of highly educated people, never really reaching the masses the way it has taken root in other countries. Masaru Hayami, the governor of the Bank of Japan, is probably the most prominent Japanese Christian at the moment.
There are about 1.1 million Christians, including foreigners, in Japan, according to The Christian News, a Tokyo weekly; that is less than 1 percent of the population. Christians here typically maintain a low profile, perhaps a carryover from the days of the Tokugawa shogunate, when Christians were persecuted and the religion was all but stamped out. Since then, Christianity has spread largely through private schools and universities like Sophia University.
Mission Barabbas, on the other hand, takes its message to the streets, a practice reflected in its membership, which is divided between people who are handicapped, unemployed and otherwise outcast from Japanese society and people who would disappear in the crowd at an average train station.
"At this church, because I used to take drugs and commit crimes, people who have problems but can't talk about them anywhere else come here," he said. "It's split about 50-50 between those who change their lives and those who just drift on."
The church, which was started four years ago, has some 60 members, and its tiny, one-room sanctuary tucked away in a typical neighborhood is packed for Sunday services. "On average in Japan, one church collects about 30 or 40 followers over a 20-year period," Mr. Suzuki said. "So we're pretty pleased with our progress."
Mr. Suzuki and his handful of fellow yakuza converts use a mobile ministry, song and fiery preaching to win converts. They spent six months lugging a cross from Okinawa to Hokkaido, a march they have repeated on a tighter schedule in South Korea and Hawaii. "Rather than waiting for people to come in and find us, we decided we'd go out to the people and talk to them," he said.
He has gained enough attention to earn a speaking engagement at the President's Prayer Breakfast at the White House last year, along with President Clinton and the Rev. Billy Graham.
The story of Mr. Suzuki's conversion from gangster to minister is as much a love story as a tale of an epiphany. As a young yakuza member, he fell in love with a hostess in a bar in Osaka, a young woman from South Korea who called herself Mariko but was born Han Kumja.
The two separated many times but always found themselves reunited. They were a sad pair. Mr. Suzuki was struggling under a pile of debt accumulated in heavy gambling binges, and Mariko was deeply disappointed with her life in Japan.
She began going to a Korean church, having sought solace in Buddhism and fortunetelling but to no avail. She liked the people she met at church, Mr. Suzuki said, and found that she felt buoyed, although she could not explain exactly why.
Some time later, Mariko broke her kneecap. The minister and members of her church fasted and prayed for healing, Mr. Suzuki said, and when Mariko went to church the next Sunday, the minister put his hands on her broken knee and pronounced it healed.
She walked away from church that day, and although Mr. Suzuki regarded her religion as a silly waste of time, the recovery of her knee fascinated him.
"In gambling," he said, "you use dice. Dice are made from bone, and if God could heal her bone, I figured he could probably assist my dice and make me the best dice thrower in all of Japan."
After months of prayer, Mr. Suzuki's gambling skills did improve, enabling him to pay off his debts.
But he quickly lapsed back to his old ways, abandoning Mariko, who had become his wife, shortly after she gave birth to their boy. "At that time, I was like a stone rolling down the hill into the mud," Mr. Suzuki said.
Once again, his debts mounted, and he drank and took drugs. He fled Osaka and his young family, returning to Tokyo with his favorite bar hostess in tow. He had his girlfriend call his wife and taunt her and eventually demanded a divorce.
Eight months later, he became ill. "I thought my wife was trying to kill me with a curse from God," he said.
Figuring God had cured his wife's leg, he sought out a church wedged between a brothel and a gambling parlor in a seedy section of Shinjuku ward in Tokyo. Once there, he says, he collapsed in front of the cross, where he stayed for three days, praying and calling out to God.
"The carpet was soaked with my tears," he said.
When the minister finally approached him, Mr. Suzuki screamed out that he was beyond redemption. "I was shouting because I was hurt," Mr. Suzuki said. "I had severed two of my fingers by myself, undergone the pain of tattooing, spent two years in jail and deserted my wife and child."
The minister persisted, however, and Mr. Suzuki calmed down. He returned to Osaka to confront his wife, and her immediate acceptance of him despite his misdeeds clinched his faith, he said.
"I saw that I could start over again, which I had thought was impossible," he said. He was officially expelled from his gang when he entered the seminary in 1990, but he doesn't fear reprisal.
"Now," he said, "God is protecting me."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hiroyuki Suzuki, who seems to have really cleaned up his act, is shown at top preaching at his evangelical Protestant church in Funabashi, a Tokyo suburb. Note the tip of his pinkie chopped off, gangland style. Below, he displays his underworld tattoos. He founded the Mission Barabbas, named for the biblical thief. (Photographs by Stuart Isett/Sygma, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ORGANIZED CRIME; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (70%); 

PERSON: SUZUKI, HIROYUKI; STROM, STEPHANIE HIROYUKI SUZUKI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



469 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds More School Funds Being Used for Instruction

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
A growing proportion of the budget for New York City's public schools is being earmarked for classroom instruction and other services that directly benefit students, the Board of Education reported yesterday.
Planned spending on direct services to students rose to 91 percent of the school system's $9.8 billion budget this year, from 88.5 percent last year, the board said in the latest of what it calls school-based budgeting reports. The reports offer detailed accounts of how each of the 1,144 schools and 40 community school districts and high school districts planned to spend the money allocated to them in the fiscal year ending June 30. 
 School administrators have been under pressure to show that they are not spending too much on themselves. "We are pushing constantly to increase the funding that goes into the classroom," said Beverly Donohue, the chief financial officer for the board. In 1996, the first year these detailed reports were released, the schools budgeted 87.2 percent for direct services, the board said.
Benefiting from a strong economy, the schools planned to spend $8,997 per student this year (including those in special education), up from $8,494 in last year's budget. As in the last few years, more of this money is going to students in middle and elementary schools ($8,391 and $8,365, respectively) than to students in high schools ($7,734).
Ms. Donohue said the disparity could be explained by the focus on early childhood education and the smaller class sizes in the lower grades. In most school systems, more is spent on students in the upper grades because of the need for teachers with specialities as well as laboratories and equipment.
The budgets include a significant increase for special education, to $24,313 a student from $22,294.
But little of the money allocated for the classroom is being spent on textbooks. That amount is expected to be $65.6 million, down from $119 million in 1997, when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani sponsored a special allocation of $70 million.
The figures made public yesterday are a snapshot of the budgets as they stood in April, after many changes throughout the school year, Ms. Donohue said. Reports itemizing actual spending will be released in January.
Actual spending does not usually differ from projected spending, said Noreen Connell, the director of the Educational Priorities Panel, a private watchdog organization.
Ms. Connell praised the Board of Education for being so forthcoming. "This is transparent budgeting like no other agency has," she said. The figures dispel the theory that the school system spends too much on administration, she said, but they also reveal the school system's principal inadequacy: a lack of money.
An average middle-income suburban school system in the metropolitan region spends about $10,500 per student, Ms. Connell said.
In New York, for example, the textbook budget equals $60 per student. In many suburban districts, the sum would be closer to $200 a student, Ms. Connell said.
Although less money is being set aside for textbooks, several categories have shown considerable gains since 1997. These are teacher training, to $169.9 million, from $133.5 million; summer and evening school, to $138.5 million, from $66 million; building maintenance, to $182.1 million, from $110.3 million; and computer support, to $106.9 million from $17.6 million . 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) BOARD OF EDUCATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) BOARD OF EDUCATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CHILDREN (73%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



470 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: Pitting Woods And Irons Against The Jackhammers;
In Bronx, Rift Grows Over Plan For Water Plant at Golf Course

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
Michael Zuccaire lugged his clubs to the first hole of Mosholu Golf Course in the Bronx and surveyed the tree-studded slopes and the milky blue sky. He is in his 70's and retired, he said, and his daily 18 holes at Mosholu -- he plays the nine-hole course twice -- are his greatest pleasure.
"I awake every morning with the thought of coming up here," Mr. Zuccaire said. 
 Mr. Zuccaire is one of many old-timers who have made Mosholu, which sits in the southeast corner of Van Cortlandt Park, their unofficial retirement home. The course and driving range is affordable, uncongested and, alone among courses in the region, reachable by subway.
But the bucolic area, built nearly a century ago, may soon be buried by construction dust. Today, a City Council subcommittee will hold a hearing on building an 11-acre plant under Mosholu to filter water from the Croton watershed. The proposed site has already been approved by the City Planning Commission.
While the city has promised to restore the golf course on top of the plant after completing the five-year project, the proposal is roiling passions nonetheless.
Neighborhood advocates, park lovers, environmentalists, local elected officials, and of course golfers bitterly oppose the plant, saying it would swallow precious green space, raise water rates and bring noise, pollution and traffic to a fragile urban neighborhood.
But the project's supporters are fervent as well. Most vocal are unions and contractors, who fear the loss of jobs and income if the plant, which could ultimately cost the city close to $1 billion, is built outside New York. Some environmental groups concerned about the city's clean water supply also say the filtration plant must be built, although they avoid opining on where.
Hovering over the debate is the Federal Government, which in 1992 obtained a consent decree to force the city to begin building the plant by 2001. The Environmental Protection Agency is now impatiently waiting for the city to finalize its site, which it must do by the end of July. There are currently no other sites under consideration.
The Council is to vote on the plan next week, and the lobbying from both sides will be fierce in the coming days. But the plant's opponents may face an uphill battle: the Council's Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, is leaning toward supporting the plant, his spokesman, Michael Clendenin, said yesterday.
"Some of the sites they looked at before would have been way too disruptive to the city," Mr. Clendenin said. "This seems to be the best site in the city at this time."
Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer, a staunch opponent of the plant, said he hoped Mr. Vallone would reconsider. "I think this is a test of his leadership," Mr. Ferrer said of Mr. Vallone. Both men are likely mayoral candidates.
Up at Mosholu, the golfers say they will use whatever votes they have left in their lives to convey their displeasure.
"The man who proposed putting this here should be jailed," Jerry O'Shea, 73, said in an Irish brogue.
"He ought to be hanged," said Matt McNeill, 70, sitting next to Mr. O'Shea on a golf cart.
The Mosholu site was selected in December by the city's Department of Environmental Protection after years of intense and well-organized community opposition caused the city to abandon a previous site at the the Jerome Park Reservoir, less than a mile from the current proposed site. A citizen suggested Mosholu at a public hearing, and the city took up the idea. "This is not a location people objected to during the whole process" of selection, said Joel A. Miele Sr., the city's Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection.
The city wants to build a water treatment plant, a storage reservoir and a pumping station at Mosholu, and said it would minimize the impact on the neighborhood by erecting a sound barrier around the construction area and by bringing truck traffic in off the Major Deegan Expressway.
But neighborhood advocates say the addition of 300 cars and 190 trucks each day by the city's estimate, along with the blasting and drilling from construction, will exacerbate the area's asthma problems, weaken its buildings, and tear at the neighborhood's social tissue. The Norwood section is stable but poor, home to more than 20,000 people, many of whom are immigrants.
"I don't think it's the kind of neighborhood the city should mess with and change the whole quality of life here," said Monsignor Patrick Boyle, the priest at St. Brendan's Parish and the Vicar of the Northwest Bronx.
Underlying the argument is a basic issue: how to insure the quality of the city's drinking water. The Croton watershed, which covers 357 square miles in Westchester and Putnam counties, normally supplies 10 percent of the city's water and as much as 30 percent in times of drought.
Critics of the plan say the city and state have done too little to protect the watershed from the pressures of development in the Croton area, and that they have waited too long to seek alternatives to chemically filtering the water. Dart Westphal, the president of the Bronx Council of Environmental Quality, said the city should be seeking to keep the water from getting dirty in the first place. Filtering, he said, provided a "false sense of security and license to pollute."
Mr. Ferrer agreed. "This is not about not wanting an industrial facility in the Bronx," he said. "This is really about the long-term protection of our drinking water." Mr. Ferrer also cited the high cost of building the plant, and said it would increase the bills of homeowners and small businesses throughout the city.
But Mr. Miele said the city had done a good job protecting its water source, and had been exploring alternatives to filtering the Croton water. Construction on the plant is supposed to begin in 2001, and Mr. Miele said that if additional studies show that avoiding filtration is possible, the city would approach the Federal government to renegotiate its agreement.
But Mary Mears, a spokeswoman for the Environmental Protection Agency, said that the agency was adamant that the city filter its water.
"That is absolutely not on the table," she said of avoiding filtration. "E.P.A.'s position is that Safe Drinking Water Act requires the city to build a filtration plant for Croton."
Some environmental groups agree. "Neither the city nor anybody else has ever proven that filtration is unnecessary," said David Gordon, a senior attorney at Riverkeeper Inc.
While the E.P.A. is forcing the city to build the plant -- at the risk of exorbitant financial penalties if it does not -- it has no say or interest in where the plant is built. Critics of the Mosholu site say the city has not tried hard enough to find a less disruptive location.
At least two Westchester towns, Greenburgh and Mount Pleasant, have expressed interest in the plant, which would be built on industrial land in those towns. But Greenburgh's Town Supervisor, for one, said that New York did not seriously pursue negotiations. The Supervisor, Paul Seiner, said that he had written and tried to reach New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani many times, but, "The administration was never interested."
Mr. Miele said operating and security concerns made putting the plant in the city the wiser choice. Building the plant in Westchester also would be more expensive, officials agree.
But there are also powerful political forces pushing to keep the plant in the city, namely contractors and unions that stand to reap business and jobs from the construction. Union leaders and rank-and-file members have turned out in force at public hearings, and have been lobbying elected officials.
Their argument is simple: If the plant must be built, build it here, rather than sending the money upstate. The plant could create 4,500 jobs, said Francis X. McCardle, the managing director of the General Contractors Association, who added that most of those jobs would go to workers living in New York City. And the jobs, he said, would be well-paying -- $50,000 a year in salary and benefits.
"Prevailing wage jobs of this kind are the backbone of so many communities in New York," Mr. McCardle said, pointing out that large numbers of construction workers live in the Bronx and spend their wages there.
Thomas P. Maguire, the president of Local 15 of the International Union of Operating Engineers, agreed. "Why should we use New York City taxpayers' money to build a plant in Westchester -- especially with the commuter tax repeal?" he asked. "Why reward noncity residents again?"
But on East 213th Street, which is just across Jerome Avenue from the park, there is a certain skepticism that the jobs would benefit local residents.
"All those construction jobs they bring -- they won't hire people from here," said a 45-year-old unemployed resident who would only identify himself as Negus. "They will be from Yonkers, Staten Island, Long Island. They will come and work and earn and go."
He and other residents said they were most concerned about how construction would affect air quality in a neighborhood already heavily afflicted with respiratory problems. "Almost every kid in this neighborhood has asthma," Negus said.
But many residents also said they knew nothing about the proposed plant. And that, said one resident, Basilio Rivera, 42, a car service dispatcher, was exactly the problem.
"The vast majority of people here are not informed," he said. "They do not know what resources are available and how to go about fighting it. I hate to look at it in terms of black and white, poor and money," he continued, "but it always seems to end up that way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The city wants to tear up, though later restore, the Mosholu Golf Course in the Bronx to build a water treatment plant. Matt McNeill, below left, and Jerry O'Shea oppose the plan, as do others who say it would disrupt an entire neighborhood. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of the Bronx showing site of the planned filtration plant: Golfers and others want to preserve the bucolic slice of the Bronx. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY MOSHOLU GOLF (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROTON RESERVOIR (NY); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; MOSHOLU GOLF COURSE (NYC); GOLF GOLF (92%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); CITY LIFE (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MAYORS (73%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (72%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (72%); LOBBYING (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); APPROVALS (68%); UTILITY RATES (67%); NOISE POLLUTION (65%); LAYOFFS (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (54%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES) MICHAEL ZUCCAIRE (60%); PETER F VALLONE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



471 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: Pitting Woods And Irons Against The Jackhammers;
In Bronx, Rift Grows Over Plan For Water Plant at Golf Course

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
Michael Zuccaire lugged his clubs to the first hole of Mosholu Golf Course in the Bronx and surveyed the tree-studded slopes and the milky blue sky. He is in his 70's and retired, he said, and his daily 18 holes at Mosholu -- he plays the nine-hole course twice -- are his greatest pleasure.
"I awake every morning with the thought of coming up here," Mr. Zuccaire said. 
 Mr. Zuccaire is one of many old-timers who have made Mosholu, which sits in the southeast corner of Van Cortlandt Park, their unofficial retirement home. The course and driving range is affordable, uncongested and, alone among courses in the region, reachable by subway.
But the bucolic area, built nearly a century ago, may soon be buried by construction dust. Today, a City Council subcommittee will hold a hearing on building an 11-acre plant under Mosholu to filter water from the Croton watershed. The proposed site has already been approved by the City Planning Commission.
While the city has promised to restore the golf course on top of the plant after completing the five-year project, the proposal is roiling passions nonetheless.
Neighborhood advocates, park lovers, environmentalists, local elected officials, and of course golfers bitterly oppose the plant, saying it would swallow precious green space, raise water rates and bring noise, pollution and traffic to a fragile urban neighborhood.
But the project's supporters are fervent as well. Most vocal are unions and contractors, who fear the loss of jobs and income if the plant, which could ultimately cost the city close to $1 billion, is built outside New York. Some environmental groups concerned about the city's clean water supply also say the filtration plant must be built, although they avoid opining on where.
Hovering over the debate is the Federal Government, which in 1992 obtained a consent decree to force the city to begin building the plant by 2001. The Environmental Protection Agency is now impatiently waiting for the city to finalize its site, which it must do by the end of July. There are currently no other sites under consideration.
The Council is to vote on the plan next week, and the lobbying from both sides will be fierce in the coming days. But the plant's opponents may face an uphill battle: the Council's Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, is leaning toward supporting the plant, his spokesman, Michael Clendenin, said yesterday.
"Some of the sites they looked at before would have been way too disruptive to the city," Mr. Clendenin said. "This seems to be the best site in the city at this time."
Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer, a staunch opponent of the plant, said he hoped Mr. Vallone would reconsider. "I think this is a test of his leadership," Mr. Ferrer said of Mr. Vallone. Both men are likely mayoral candidates.
Up at Mosholu, the golfers say they will use whatever votes they have left in their lives to convey their displeasure.
"The man who proposed putting this here should be jailed," Jerry O'Shea, 73, said in an Irish brogue.
"He ought to be hanged," said Matt McNeill, 70, sitting next to Mr. O'Shea on a golf cart.
The Mosholu site was selected in December by the city's Department of Environmental Protection after years of intense and well-organized community opposition caused the city to abandon a previous site at the the Jerome Park Reservoir, less than a mile from the current proposed site. A citizen suggested Mosholu at a public hearing, and the city took up the idea. "This is not a location people objected to during the whole process" of selection, said Joel A. Miele Sr., the city's Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection.
The city wants to build a water treatment plant, a storage reservoir and a pumping station at Mosholu, and said it would minimize the impact on the neighborhood by erecting a sound barrier around the construction area and by bringing truck traffic in off the Major Deegan Expressway.
But neighborhood advocates say the addition of 300 cars and 190 trucks each day by the city's estimate, along with the blasting and drilling from construction, will exacerbate the area's asthma problems, weaken its buildings, and tear at the neighborhood's social tissue. The Norwood section is stable but poor, home to more than 20,000 people, many of whom are immigrants.
"I don't think it's the kind of neighborhood the city should mess with and change the whole quality of life here," said Monsignor Patrick Boyle, the priest at St. Brendan's Parish and the Vicar of the Northwest Bronx.
Underlying the argument is a basic issue: how to insure the quality of the city's drinking water. The Croton watershed, which covers 357 square miles in Westchester and Putnam counties, normally supplies 10 percent of the city's water and as much as 30 percent in times of drought.
Critics of the plan say the city and state have done too little to protect the watershed from the pressures of development in the Croton area, and that they have waited too long to seek alternatives to chemically filtering the water. Dart Westphal, the president of the Bronx Council of Environmental Quality, said the city should be seeking to keep the water from getting dirty in the first place. Filtering, he said, provided a "false sense of security and license to pollute."
Mr. Ferrer agreed. "This is not about not wanting an industrial facility in the Bronx," he said. "This is really about the long-term protection of our drinking water." Mr. Ferrer also cited the high cost of building the plant, and said it would increase the bills of homeowners and small businesses throughout the city.
But Mr. Miele said the city had done a good job protecting its water source, and had been exploring alternatives to filtering the Croton water. Construction on the plant is supposed to begin in 2001, and Mr. Miele said that if additional studies show that avoiding filtration is possible, the city would approach the Federal government to renegotiate its agreement.
But Mary Mears, a spokeswoman for the Environmental Protection Agency, said that the agency was adamant that the city filter its water.
"That is absolutely not on the table," she said of avoiding filtration. "E.P.A.'s position is that Safe Drinking Water Act requires the city to build a filtration plant for Croton."
Some environmental groups agree. "Neither the city nor anybody else has ever proven that filtration is unnecessary," said David Gordon, a senior attorney at Riverkeeper Inc.
While the E.P.A. is forcing the city to build the plant -- at the risk of exorbitant financial penalties if it does not -- it has no say or interest in where the plant is built. Critics of the Mosholu site say the city has not tried hard enough to find a less disruptive location.
At least two Westchester towns, Greenburgh and Mount Pleasant, have expressed interest in the plant, which would be built on industrial land in those towns. But Greenburgh's Town Supervisor, for one, said that New York did not seriously pursue negotiations. The Supervisor, Paul Seiner, said that he had written and tried to reach New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani many times, but, "The administration was never interested."
Mr. Miele said operating and security concerns made putting the plant in the city the wiser choice. Building the plant in Westchester also would be more expensive, officials agree.
But there are also powerful political forces pushing to keep the plant in the city, namely contractors and unions that stand to reap business and jobs from the construction. Union leaders and rank-and-file members have turned out in force at public hearings, and have been lobbying elected officials.
Their argument is simple: If the plant must be built, build it here, rather than sending the money upstate. The plant could create 4,500 jobs, said Francis X. McCardle, the managing director of the General Contractors Association, who added that most of those jobs would go to workers living in New York City. And the jobs, he said, would be well-paying -- $50,000 a year in salary and benefits.
"Prevailing wage jobs of this kind are the backbone of so many communities in New York," Mr. McCardle said, pointing out that large numbers of construction workers live in the Bronx and spend their wages there.
Thomas P. Maguire, the president of Local 15 of the International Union of Operating Engineers, agreed. "Why should we use New York City taxpayers' money to build a plant in Westchester -- especially with the commuter tax repeal?" he asked. "Why reward noncity residents again?"
But on East 213th Street, which is just across Jerome Avenue from the park, there is a certain skepticism that the jobs would benefit local residents.
"All those construction jobs they bring -- they won't hire people from here," said a 45-year-old unemployed resident who would only identify himself as Negus. "They will be from Yonkers, Staten Island, Long Island. They will come and work and earn and go."
He and other residents said they were most concerned about how construction would affect air quality in a neighborhood already heavily afflicted with respiratory problems. "Almost every kid in this neighborhood has asthma," Negus said.
But many residents also said they knew nothing about the proposed plant. And that, said one resident, Basilio Rivera, 42, a car service dispatcher, was exactly the problem.
"The vast majority of people here are not informed," he said. "They do not know what resources are available and how to go about fighting it. I hate to look at it in terms of black and white, poor and money," he continued, "but it always seems to end up that way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Tuesday about New York City's plans to build a water plant under the Mosholu Golf Course in the Bronx misstated the surname of the Town Supervisor in Greenburgh, N.Y., a town that has expressed interest in the plant. He is Paul Feiner, not Seiner.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The city wants to tear up, though later restore, the Mosholu Golf Course in the Bronx to build a water treatment plant. Matt McNeill, below left, and Jerry O'Shea oppose the plan, as do others who say it would disrupt an entire neighborhood. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of the Bronx showing site of the planned filtration plant: Golfers and others want to preserve the bucolic slice of the Bronx. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY MOSHOLU GOLF (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROTON RESERVOIR (NY); NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; MOSHOLU GOLF COURSE (NYC); GOLF GOLF (92%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); CITY LIFE (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MAYORS (73%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (72%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (72%); LOBBYING (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); APPROVALS (68%); UTILITY RATES (67%); NOISE POLLUTION (65%); LAYOFFS (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (54%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES) MICHAEL ZUCCAIRE (60%); PETER F VALLONE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999



472 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2042 words

HEADLINE: A Great American Wine Swirls In Turmoil

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: HEALDSBURG, Calif.

 BODY:
THE question sounds like a line from an old radio script:
Can a minuscule winery, started by a couple of ornery, rough-hewn rural Californians, find continuing happiness as part of an international combine owned by a big-time venture capitalist from Wall Street? 
 The winery is Williams Selyem, whose pinot noirs have moved to the head of the table in the years since the first was made in a garage in 1981. Fewer than 8,000 cases a year are produced. Almost all go directly to people on the Williams Selyem mailing list, which is as hard to crack as the guest list for a royal wedding. (Two of the winery's seven full-time employees are officially designated as "keepers of the list.") For the rest of us, happily, the stuff shows up from time to time on top restaurant wine lists, like Montrachet in Manhattan.
Smoky, voluptuous, intensely flavored, Williams Selyem pinot noir is among the most coveted American wines. Part of its cachet is scarcity, but by no means all; it is surely one of the best of its type, along with Calera and Domaine Drouhin and a few others. Now, the winery has been sold and the wine world is watching intently to see if standards will be maintained. Nobody knows the answer, because no outsider has tasted the new Williams Selyem yet.
The new owner is John Dyson, a scion of the Hudson River squirearchy. A former New York State Agriculture Commissioner and a former Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development under Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Dyson is often credited with creating the I <heart> New York advertising campaign.
Last year, he paid Burt Williams and Ed Selyem $9.5 million for the operation, which came onto the market because Mr. Selyem developed a serious back problem after years of hefting wine cases. One of the unsuccessful bidders was Joe Montana, the onetime San Francisco 49'ers quarterback.
Mr. Dyson said he sees Williams Selyem as "a job of stewardship, to be enhanced, not exploited."
But Mr. Dyson's big bucks bought him no vineyards; Williams Selyem has always been made from grapes purchased under handshake agreements. Many of those agreements continue, but not the most important one, which covered the grapes produced on Joe Rochioli's prize plot in the Russian River Valley, his so-called West Block. Those grapes went into Williams Selyem's Rochioli pinot noir, one of the wines produced under the ancien regime from grapes of single vineyards. It usually commanded the highest ratings and prices, and it was the winery's benchmark.
Nor did Mr. Dyson get the long-term services of Mr. Williams, the winery's gruff winemaker, who once told a visiting Canadian journalist: "We were friends with most of the growers, so I knew we could get great fruit. Then it's just a matter of not messing it up."
Mr. Williams agreed to continue after the winery sale, and Bob Cabral, the new winemaker, says he made the 1998 vintage "under Burt's direction." That wine -- only 4,200 cases, owing to sparse fruit production -- rests in oak barrels, awaiting release next year. So far, it seems promising.
But the two men came from different generations and different cultures. Mr. Williams, 57, is self-taught, for example, and Mr. Cabral taught winemaking at Santa Rosa Junior College. People who worked with them both say that they didn't mesh very well.
So for this year's vintage, Mr. Cabral, a heavyset, unassuming 37-year-old, is more or less on his own. Mr. Williams "has kind of backed out," Mr. Cabral said, spending most of his time on his fishing boat in Santa Barbara. Mr. Selyem spends summers in Alaska, winters in Hawaii.
Mr. Dyson installed Jean L. Arnold, a respected wine executive who helped put Jordan Vineyards on the viticultural map, as president of Williams Selyem, but she, too, found it a difficult place to work and left. The conflicts between Ms. Arnold and Mr. Dyson reportedly centered on questions of marketing strategy for Mr. Dyson's wines.
Adding to the turmoil, a 20-year-old winery worker, Taylor J. Atkins, was accidentally asphyxiated on Jan. 7 in a bottling tank full of deadly nitrogen. It was as if some kind of curse hung over Williams Selyem.
Finally, rumors began flying that Mr. Dyson planned to double, triple or quadruple Williams Selyem's output to recoup his investment -- rumors that Mr. Cabral denies. The present winery, he said, will never produce more than 15,000 cases a year, which is the target for the 2005 vintage, and "anyway, the place is very profitable as is."
AT its best, pinot noir can be a captivating wine: rich, complex and sensuous, with the scent of cherries and chocolate and sometimes leather. But the grape that makes it is capricious and demanding, so much so that Marq de Villiers called his book about the Calera Wine Company, a California pinot noir specialist, "Heartbreak Grape" (HarperCollins West, 1994).
Even in France, its homeland, it reaches greatness only in a few small plots in Burgundy, and there only in the hands of gifted winemakers like Henri Jayer and Armand Rousseau. For decades, New World winemakers tried with limited luck to duplicate the subtlety and silkiness of fine Burgundy.
The key, as it turned out, was a cool climate, and it is in such climates that pinot noir has finally succeeded in the United States -- in Oregon, in certain areas near Santa Barbara, in the Carneros district, between the Napa and Sonoma valleys, and in the Russian River Valley, northwest of Santa Rosa in Sonoma County. In most of them, coastal breezes and fogs keep the temperatures down; other successful pinot noir vineyards are cool because they are planted at high altitudes, like Chalone, founded by Richard Graff near Pinnacles National Park in central California in 1960.
Williams Selyem was a leader in developing and perfecting California pinot noirs with Burgundian characteristics. Its best wines have always been made from cool-climate grapes. Some have come from the Russian River Valley -- the Rochioli West Block, identified as Rochioli on the label; the Rochioli River Block, identified as River Block on the label, and the Allen vineyard, also farmed by the Rochioli family. Some have come from nearby lowland vineyards, like Olivet Lane. And some have come from the coastal mountains near Fort Ross, west of here, including the Hirsch, Precious Mountain and Summa vineyards.
Other suppliers are Ferrington Vineyards in the Anderson Valley, near Ukiah, and the Coastlands vineyards of Diane and David Cobb, east-facing plots above the fog line.
Neither Summa nor Olivet Lane will be available to Williams Selyem in the future. But the loss of the West Block, which was planted in 1969 and 1970, hurts most of all.
"I was faithful," Joe Rochioli said, sitting on a terrace overlooking his vines and a tree line that blocked the meandering Russian River from view. "I gave Williams and Selyem grapes from the West Block even after my son, Tom, joined me and started making wine, even when Tom ran short. But when Burt sold out, it was our chance to get back the fruit we needed."
Relaxed and genial as he may appear, Mr. Rochioli is a man possessed in the vineyard, determined, as he said, "to grow better grapes than anyone." He and his workers painstakingly thin the vines and discard less-than-perfect clusters, concentrating all the plant's energy on a small amount of fruit. The results are yields of two to three tons an acre, against eight for some rivals.
"I love it," he said. "I'm up at 4 A.M., then out in the vineyard. I don't owe anybody anything. I built my own house, plumbing, electricity, everything. I don't own a suit. I hate vacations. For me, farming is all about pride, not money."
Mr. Rochioli is stocky and vigorous at 65, with forearms the size of fireplace logs. His father grew hops on this land; now, he is considered one of the world's best grape growers by his peers. He is careful to praise both Mr. Dyson and Mr. Cabral as "good men," but he has serious doubts about expanding Williams Selyem's output and especially about bringing pinot noir grapes from other areas to the Russian River Valley to make wine. "Different nose, different flavors," he said.
Just down Westside Road from the glamorous Rochioli spread, the Williams Selyem winery occupies a cluster of small, utilitarian-looking buildings, including a modest new office. There is no visitor center and no tasting room on the dusty site. Nor is there any elaborate landscaping or any sign out front, only a discreet street number, 6575.
There are 10,000 customers on the Williams Selyem mailing list, including the White House, but not many make their way here.
Mr. Cabral, the son of grape-growing parents, worked for seven years at De Loach Vineyards, another well-regarded Russian River Valley operation. He greeted me warily, well aware, as he put it, that "everything I do here is under a microscope." Before joining Mr. Dyson he worried, he said, about whether he could maintain Williams Selyem's reputation for quality.
"I had my doubts," Mr. Cabral said. "I still do, sometimes."
So do others.
Robert M. Parker Jr., the wine critic, said recently that he feared that the new owners might try to make money by living off the winery's name.
One of California's leading sommeliers, Larry Stone of Rubicon, a San Francisco restaurant, has been a Williams Selyem fan for years. The 1991's and 1992's were brilliant, he told me, "complete wines, fleshy and complex, way beyond anything seen in California before." The 1996's are fine as well, he added, "really masterful products of intuitive artisans."
But the future, Mr. Stone argues, is an unmapped road.
"I don't know who's in charge," he said. "Dyson has paid a long price, and it remains to be seen whether he can deliver. He bought a lot of good will, but that will evaporate if he can't put the goods in the bottle. What kind of enterprise is this going to be? How big?"
Absentee owners are not necessarily bad, especially if they have deep pockets. In 1986 when a wealthy Japanese group bought Ridge Vineyards, a renowned specialist in powerful zinfandels and cabernet sauvignons, it pumped money into the property and permitted its winemaker, Paul Draper, to do exactly as he wished. Ridge has gone from strength to strength.
Mr. Cabral is no Paul Draper, but he has developed a formula that he hopes will produce both quality and quantity in years to come.
He envisions making as much of the single-vineyard wines, the top of the line, as he can, "and trying to keep them extraordinary." The grapes for those will come from the longtime suppliers that remain on the Williams Selyem roster, plus the first vineyard the winery has ever owned, a 38-acre tract near Guerneville that it bought several months ago.
Most of the growth will come in less expensive blends labeled Russian River Valley, if all the grapes come from vineyards in this area; or Sonoma Coast or Sonoma County, if the grapes come from broader areas. Will those bottlings dilute the value of the carefully nurtured Williams Selyem brand?
And what if Mr. Dyson decides to put the Williams Selyem label on wines made from grapes grown elsewhere? His Pebble Ridge Vineyards and Wine Estates owns Milbrook Vineyards in upstate New York, which produces some of the best wines east of the Mississippi; Villa Pillo Estate in Tuscany, and Mistral and Vista Verde Vineyards on the central California coast. Last year, he brought grapes from the Hollister area, south of San Francisco, to the winery here and made wine from them. But Mr. Cabral said that no decision had been made yet about releasing the wine.
If Williams Selyem stumbles, plenty of able competitors are waiting to lure its customers. Some are newcomers, relatively speaking, like the ambitious Walt and Joan Flowers and the tiny Quail Hill Vineyard. A bottle of Quail Hill's emphatic Lynmar reserve pinot noir impressed several of us at dinner in Santa Rosa recently when tasted against a group of Russian River rivals.
Then there are well-established figures like Tom Dehlinger and Gary Farrell, as well as our old friend Tom Rochioli, to whom it will now fall to make his father's prized West Block grapes into pinot noir. Will he be the next pinot noir superstar?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: BY WINE POSSESSED -- Joe Rochioli, above, is keeping grapes for his pinot noir, not Williams Selyem's. (Tom Rochioli); NEW IN THE CELLAR -- Bob Cabral, right, a former winemaking teacher, made the first vintage of the new era. (Marv Parker)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAMS SELYEM WINERY

ORGANIZATION: WILLIAMS SELYEM WINERY

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES WINERIES (90%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (86%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (75%); WRITERS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (63%); VENTURE CAPITAL (57%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (54%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; WILLIAMS, BURT; SELYEM, ED; ROCHIOLI, JOE; CABRAL, BOB RUDY GIULIANI (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



473 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Bull-Market Blind Spot

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Though I don't consider myself a proponent of "unfettered economic development," I believe that Portland's deal with Intel to limit job creation and thus to stop suburban sprawl displays both arrogance and foolishness ("In Oregon, Jobs vs. Trees," letter, June 18). It seems as if the folks in the Portland area and the entire country have forgotten two things during the bull market of the 1990's. 
 First, there are poor people out there who have received little to no benefit from the good economic times: a growth-limiting proposal is insulting to them.
Second, the boom won't last forever. I hardly await the day the bubble bursts, but it won't be a surprise.
 
ANTHONY C. LAVECCHIA
Island Park, N.Y., June 18, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (90%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP INTEL CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND (ORE); UNITED STATES (90%); OREGON, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SUBURBS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SUBURBS (71%); 

PERSON: LAVECCHIA, ANTHONY C

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



474 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
EURO IS LOWER. The European single currency declined as optimism for recovery in Japan spurred traders there to sell assets priced in euros. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0320, down from $1.0345 late Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EURO (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



475 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Commerce Report Describes Economic Benefits From Internet

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22

 BODY:
The financial benefits of the Internet and high technology extend beyond the quick riches they have brought high-profile entrepreneurs and investors in recent years to the nation's economy as a whole, a new Government study shows.
The information technology industry -- which includes everything from the Dell Computer Corporation's PC's, to the Microsoft Corporation's software, to Cisco Systems Inc.'s routers -- generated at least a third of the nation's economic growth between 1995 and 1998, the Commerce Department said in a report released today. During that period, the gross domestic product rose 22 percent, to $8.7 trillion. 
 Those goods and services also got cheaper and allowed businesses to become more productive, cutting inflation by seven-tenths of a percentage point in 1996 and 1997, the report says.
"The improvement in technology, in productivity, is what has made the economy so incredibly attractive in the last couple of years," William J. McDonough, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said in a speech in New Jersey today.
Today's Commerce Department report, the second in a series of three on technology, does not provide figures measuring total spending on high technology. Instead, it focuses on growth of on-line businesses and companies that cater to the technology industry. For example, it says almost half of all American workers will be employed in high-technology industries or at companies that rely heavily on technology by 2006.
Workers in information technology have been at least twice as productive as other workers from 1990 to 1997 and earn 78 percent more than other workers, the report said.
The report "provides fresh evidence that our nation's massive investments in these sectors are producing gains in productivity and that these sectors are creating new and higher-paying jobs faster than any other," Commerce Secretary William M. Daley said in the report.
Meanwhile, those who invested in high technology have reaped rewards that outpaced the market as a whole. The Standard & Poor's High Technology index rose more than five times since June 1994, while the broader S.& P. 500 stock index tripled. Spending on information technology has quadrupled over the last decade, rising as a share of all business spending on equipment to 53 percent from 29 percent, according to the Commerce Department in a separate report.
"Internet activity is driving deflationary boom conditions," said Ed Hyman, an economist for the ISI Group in New York. "It's official."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (91%); DELL (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK CISCO SYSTEMS INC (91%); DELL INC (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; WAGES AND SALARIES; INDUSTRY PROFILES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); DEFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: MCDONOUGH, WILLIAM J; DALEY, WILLIAM M (SEC) ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



476 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft's Final Witness Asked to Rebut U.S. Case

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22

 BODY:
A Microsoft lawyer today led the company's final witness at its antitrust trial through the long chain of charges that the Government has thrown at Microsoft through eight months of trial and asked him to rebut each of them.
Not surprisingly, the witness, Richard L. Schmalensee, dean of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Microsoft's expert economist, agreed that there was no substance to any of the charges. 
 He asserted that the Microsoft Corporation did not hold a monopoly in personal computer operating system software, that it faced vicious and serious competitors charging from every direction. And he said there were no significant barriers preventing other companies from selling operating systems that competed with Windows.
Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, who is hearing the case without a jury, had nothing to say about most of the testimony. But he grew animated when the discussion turned to the barriers to entering the operating system business.
The Government contends that Microsoft's operating system monopoly is protected by what is known as the applications barrier to entry under which software companies will spend the money to write programs only for the dominant operating system, not for start-ups.
To make the case that the barrier does not exist, Mr. Schmalensee began using an analogy involving competing grocery stores. As he spoke, the judge was shaking his head.
"I have trouble with the grocery story analogy," he said at last. "You have a grocery," and then a smaller, competing market opens. "So you build a mega-market, and the potential competitor is always playing catch-up."
That set off a long discussion of grocery stores as an analogy to Microsoft and operating systems, and Mr. Schmalensee found himself talking about a mega-market that constantly adds features to stay ahead of the competition. "That's what competition is about," he said.
But the judge disagreed. "That's a benevolent despot," he said. "A monopoly."
As the trial nears its end -- the last day of testimony is likely to be on Thursday -- Judge Jackson seems quite ready to speak his mind, perhaps even show his hand, though David Boies, the Government's lead lawyer, made the point this evening that reading too much into a judge's remarks is dangerous. In any case, most of the judge's remarks have not been flattering to Microsoft.
Late in the day, however, a line of argument pursued by a Microsoft lawyer, Michael Lacovara, seemed to strike a chord. He and Mr. Schmalensee were raising the specter of competition to Microsoft from Web-based applications -- software programs like calendars or even spreadsheets that reside on the Web and are used while on line. This, the two of them said, was a serious threat to Microsoft's power.
Judge Jackson asked several questions about the phenomenon, including whether anyone on the Web could get access to his Web-based calendar. Mr. Schmalensee said access would probably require a password.
Finally, the judge, obviously enthusiastic, said, "The concept, to me, sounds very attractive, and I can't understand why" software vendors "aren't writing applications in droves."
That clearly cheered Mr. Lacovara, who has said that he likes to hear what interests the judge so he can address it. With Mr. Schmalensee back on the stand for more discussion with Mr. Lacovara Wednesday morning, it appeared likely that Judge Jackson will hear a lot more about Web-based applications.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MICROSOFT CORP (92%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; STATES (US) ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (93%); WITNESSES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LITIGATION (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); 

PERSON: LACOVARA, MICHAEL; SCHMALENSEE, RICHARD L; BRINKLEY, JOEL RICHARD L SCHMALENSEE (92%); THOMAS PENFIELD JACKSON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



477 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Late Round of Selling Helps Depress the Main Indicators

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices staged a broad retreat yesterday as a further rise in long-term interest rates and a late round of selling depressed the main market gauges.
On Monday, optimism about coming earnings reports helped to lift stocks in sectors like technology and financial services. 
 Yesterday, however, analysts said they were troubled by the way the market reacted to quarterly results from Lehman Brothers.
The securities firm reported second-quarter earnings that were substantially above Wall Street's expectations. But the stock, which rose more than 7 percent on Monday, fell 3 11/16 yesterday, to 56 5/8, and dragged shares of other big brokerage firms down with it.
"Sometimes numbers can be too good," said Laszlo Birinyi, who heads his own stock research firm in Greenwich, Conn. "But the market's reaction to Lehman's huge profits was a little disappointing."
For a second day, a rise in long-term interest rates helped to push down cyclical stocks, which depend on a growing economy to generate profits.
The drop in cyclical stocks was largely responsible for a decline in the Dow Jones industrial average, which fell 94.35 points, or nine-tenths of a percent, to 10,721.63. Companies like DuPont, Alcoa and International Paper led the blue-chip index lower.
Technology stocks, which had rallied for five consecutive sessions, pulled back yesterday and dragged down the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index.
The S.& P. 500 lost 13.12 points, or just less than 1 percent, to 1,335.88. Stocks like Microsoft, Lucent Technologies, Cisco Systems and America Online, which all gained ground on Monday, fell back yesterday.
Some of those same stocks helped to pull down Nasdaq. After a strong opening, sellers emerged and by the end of the session the index had fallen 50.02 points, or 1.9 percent, to 2,580.26.
Although stock traders appear to have accepted that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point next week, Christopher Durbin, chief investment strategist at J. P. Morgan Investment Inc., which manages more than $300 billion, said the central bank would most likely have to increase rates much more than that to slow the economy.
At a luncheon with reporters in New York yesterday, Mr. Durbin said short-term interest rates would probably rise a full percentage point over the next year.
Based on his forecast for interest rates, and what he called the market's sky-high valuations, Mr. Durbin said Morgan was advising investors to shed United States stocks and bonds and buy stocks in Japan, Europe and the emerging markets.
Traders said the rise in long-term interest rates yesterday was caused by positioning in front of a heavy calendar of coming corporate debt issues. And the rising rates probably did not help brokerage stocks.
Aside from the slide in Lehman's stock, Goldman Sachs, which is expected to report earnings today, fell 1 1/2, to 68. Merrill Lynch dropped 2 1/2, to 75 3/4. And Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette fell 2 3/8, to 55 3/4.
Among Dow stocks, DuPont fell 2 7/16, to 67 3/4. International Paper lost 1 7/8, to 52 5/8. And Alcoa fell for a second day, dropping 1 1/8, to 62 1/4.
Elsewhere, shares in Alza, the maker of sustained-release drugs, gained 1 1/2, to 47 3/4, after Abbott Laboratories said it would buy it for $7.3 billion in stock. In what was generally a good day for drug stocks, Abbott fell 1 1/16, to 43 1/2.
Oil stocks were weaker.
Chevron, a Dow component, fell 9/16, to 90 1/8, after it said a fire at its refinery near San Francisco would cut second-quarter profits by about 15 cents a share.
Mobil dropped 1 7/16, to 98. Exxon fell 1 1/4, to 77. And BP Amoco dropped 1 1/16, to 110 1/2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (66%); ALU (NYSE) (66%); ALU (BIT) (66%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); AOL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (66%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (73%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (66%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); ALCOA INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); AOL INC (53%); J P MORGAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BONDS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); NEW ISSUES (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); DEBT FINANCING (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N CHRISTOPHER DURBIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



478 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Yield Rises To 6.06% For 30-Year Treasuries

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices for Treasuries fell yesterday as corporate borrowers prepared to sell about $10 billion in debt. Traders and analysts also said that expectations continued to weigh on the market that the Federal Reserve will increase short-term rates at its two-day policy meeting next week.
For the second consecutive day, the yield on the benchmark 30-year bond stayed above 6 percent as market participants had more reasons to sell securities than to buy them. The supply of debt easily outstripped demand and the Government and corporate issuers came to market at the same time and found themselves competing for cash. 
 By the close of the New York cash market, the yield on the 30-year bond was 6.06 percent, up from 6.02 percent on Monday; its price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 1 5/32, to 88 31/32.
The Ford Motor Credit Company, Avis Rent a Car and other companies are getting ready this week to sell debt before the Fed raises short-term rates. Typically, underwriters issuing corporate debt sell Treasuries from their portfolios as a hedge until their corporate deals are done -- and thus put the Treasuries market under pressure. After the corporate deals are completed, the securities firms then buy back Treasuries and return them to their portfolios.
Ford is expected to sell $3 billion to $6 billion worth of debt in blocks to international investors. Neither the precise size nor the timing of the sale has been set, but traders expect the deal to occur this week.
Greg Jones, an economist with Briefing.com, a market analysis firm in Burlingame, Calif., said that the coming corporate and Government issues had the bond market focusing on the lack of demand and higher rates. "So with the Fed close to raising short-term rates, it's not surprising why no one wants to step up and buy new supply," he said.
Yesterday, the Treasury sold $10 billion of a new 52-week bill, and it will auction $15 billion of a new two-year note today. By late in the afternoon the note was being offered at a price to yield 5.65 percent.
The bill auction yesterday was described as mediocre at best, with the bills awarded at a rate of 4.89 percent, worse than expected. The bid-to-cover ratio, or the number of bids compared with the amount being sold, was 2.6 to 1, only marginally better than the ratio last month but far less than the average ratio of 3.14 to 1 for the last 12 auctions.
Treasuries were also being hurt by concern that the dollar may decline in the coming months. This concern came after the release earlier this month of figures that showed the Japanese economy grew a greater-than-expected 1.9 percent in the first quarter.
A weaker dollar makes Treasury securities less appealing to international investors who see their investments lose value when they convert them into other currencies.
Elsewhere, Mexico sold its first euro-denominated issue, raising 400 million euro, or about $412.6 million, through J. P. Morgan & Company and Paribas. The yield on the seven-year bond was 9.625 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a new one-year bill:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 95.056
High Rate: 4.89%
Coupon Yield: 5.16%
Low Rate: 4.75%
Median Rate: 4.86%
Total applied for: $28,802,648
Accepted: $14,848,638
Noncompetitive: $940,964
The one-year bills mature on June 22, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FCJ (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (69%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (69%); BRIEFING.COM (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); US DOLLAR (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



479 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE PRESIDENT;
Clinton Meets Refugees, and Pledges to Aid Kosovo

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: STANKOVIC CAMP, Macedonia, June 22

 BODY:
In the shadow of Kosovo, President Clinton came today to meet face-to-face with the people on whose behalf he had fought the war. He heard their stories of brutality and vowed that he would help make their homeland safe.
The visit to this muddy refugee camp, now emptying at the rate of more than 1,000 people a day, was planned while the NATO air attacks were at their peak and an end to the war seemed far away. 
 But today, this camp, the first established in Macedonia and once overflowing with 30,000 refugees, was in the throes of closing down and in several weeks will most likely be an empty, trash-strewn field.
Mr. Clinton could have made this visit a stirring conclusion to a conflict that caught the imagination at home only fitfully but represented survival to the Kosovar Albanians who escaped Serbian brutality to find shelter here.
Instead, standing on a crude wooden box and without the trappings of the White House podium, Mr. Clinton spoke in muted tones to a crowd of several hundred refugees, their faces now brighter at the prospect of going home, though often to homes burned and looted by the Serbs.
"We are committed not only to making Kosovo safe but to helping people rebuild their lives, rebuild their communities and then helping Kosovo and all the countries of the region," he said during his speech of a few minutes.
Accompanied by Hillary Rodham Clinton, who was here last month, and Chelsea, Mr. Clinton stopped by a selected group of refugees whose well-spruced tents were at the entrance to the camp. He heard first-hand a version of a story that had been told repeatedly on television and newspapers since nearly one million Kosovar Albanians were forced over the borders in late March.
Idriz Macastena, 29, his wife, Nerimane, 26, with their son, Besart, 4, described their escape from their home near Podujevo, in northern Kosovo, soon after the NATO bombing started.
Mr. Macastena described how they fled to a nearby village in the mountains, and then how, as they tried to leave in a convoy of cars and tractors for Pristina, the capital, the Serbs attacked. "Sixty people were massacred," Mr. Macastena said.
In his account to reporters, before Mr. Clinton arrived, Mr. Macastena, a carpenter, said the Serbs took one man from each of the vehicles in the second half of the convoy and killed them.
After reaching Pristina, Mr. Macastena told Mr. Clinton, his family stayed for five weeks. Soldiers of the Yugoslav Army surrounded the building where they were staying, he said, beat many of the Kosovar Albanians and threatened their son, Besart, with a knife and a lighted cigarette held to his neck.
When Mrs. Clinton told Mr. Macastena's wife, Nerimane, that her son -- decked out in clean white jeans and a vest for the occasion -- was a "beautiful boy," the mother replied: "He's still very much afraid. He has suffered very much. He has seen people killed and wounded."
Like many of the refugees at the camp, some of the Macastena family had already returned to Kosovo, the couple told the Clintons.
Besides the refugees, Mr. Clinton had other business here: dealing with the leaders of Macedonia whose country was economically battered by the war. Mr. Clinton met with the President, Kiro Gligorov, and pledged as Secretary of State, Madeleine K. Albright had done 10 days before, that the West would help restore the economy.
Mr. Clinton announced a gift of $12 million in food commodities, assistance that some officials described as modest given the dramatic economic decline here and the attention paid by Mr. Clinton's visit.
Mr. Clinton said that the clothing manufacturer, Liz Claiborne, would reopen Macedonian factories so that 2,000 to 3,000 Macedonians could work again.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chelsea Clinton joined her parents in meeting with selected refugees in Macedonia yesterday. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (96%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); ALBANIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC); KOSOVO (96%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); ALBANIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMIES (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, CHELSEA BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



480 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2028 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: This Bud's for Them;
Anheuser-Busch Takes Closer Aim at Foreign Markets

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
When Anheuser-Busch decided to go full throttle into the Argentine beer market, it looked around for advertising opportunities and found one in the form of Marcelo Tinelli, Argentina's answer to Jay Leno with a little "Candid Camera" thrown in. Mr. Tinelli is on the air five nights a week, cracking jokes, interviewing guests -- and, in recent months, sipping Budweiser from a can in front of millions of viewers.
Thanks in part to the magic of product placement, Budweiser's sales in Argentina soared 61 percent in the first quarter of the year. 
 Argentina is just one of many overseas markets -- the others include Britain, China, Ireland and Japan -- where the Anheuser-Busch Companies is pouring it on with its flagship brand. Through aggressive marketing to a young, upscale and better-educated slice of the world's population -- the same people who drink imports, as it happens, back in St. Louis, where Anheuser is based -- the company is hoping to turn Budweiser into a truly global brand, something no other beer has ever pulled off.
Anheuser is intensifying its marketing abroad at a time of great strength at home. After a long and nasty price war with its closest rival, the Miller Brewing Company unit of the Philip Morris Companies, Anheuser has remained the leader in the United States, with a 45 percent market share, slightly more than it had five years ago.
Volume has risen slightly in recent months, and the company has used the promise of extra marketing funds to entice many distributors to deal exclusively in its products.
Having conquered the American market, Anheuser is now hoping to follow in the footsteps of the Coca-Cola Company and the Gillette Company, and burnish its stock, which has been something of a sleeper lately, through overseas expansion.
For all the risks of such a global strategy, from the potential for economic turbulence in emerging markets to publicity nightmares like Belgium's ban on Coke last week, analysts say it is about time. While Coke, the undisputed worldwide king of cola, was selling one million cases of its products a year in Shanghai back in 1926, Anheuser did not even form an international division until 1982. "They were so late to this game, it was just unbelievable," said Jennifer Solomon, a beverage analyst for Salomon Smith Barney.
Getting a late start is the least of the company's problems. Selling American beer to finicky foreigners is tough going. After all, most of the world acknowledges America as the land of the soft drink and the home of the technologically advanced razor blade. But outside of the United States, beer lovers tend to be fiercely loyal to local brands, many of which date back hundreds of years, and scorn American beer as boredom in a bottle.
Even the master brewers of Europe have a hard sell when they stray too far from home. For example, about 62 percent of the beer made by Heineken, the Dutch brewer, and 70 percent of the volume produced by Carlsberg A.S. of Denmark is sold in the European Union, according to Frank Walters, the director of research at Impact, a trade newsletter in New York. If it is tough for them, people in the industry say, it will be doubly hard for Anheuser.
"They are a small international force now, and they will work very hard to become a major force," said Dan Tearno, a spokesman for Heineken USA. "But I would say they have their work cut out for them."
Along with the task of building the brand abroad, there is the sticky matter of a decades-old trademark dispute that prevents Anheuser from using the name Budweiser in many European countries. Budweiser Budvar, a Czech brewery, claims rights to the name stretching back to medieval times and has vigorously challenged Anheuser's use of it, with several lawsuits pending in countries like France and the Netherlands, where Anheuser's beer is labeled "Bud."
Anheuser "would try to persuade the world (and perhaps themselves as well) that Budweiser is a fantasy trademark which does not have its roots in Budejovice but is exclusively connected with America," a note on the Budweiser Budvar Web site, www.budweiser.cz, says. Ceske Budejovice, the town where Budweiser Budvar is brewed, is Budweis in German.
Anheuser is playing hardball in return. "Periodically, some of their beer has leaked in here," Steven J. Burrows, the chief executive of Anheuser International, said of the other Budweiser, "and as soon as we know about here or anywhere else where we have clear rights to the name, we go right after it."
Mr. Burrows said the disputes were confined to Europe and had little effect on Anheuser's overseas sales. "In some markets, we coexist," he said. "In some markets, we have gained the right to use 'Budweiser'." In one market -- the Czech Republic -- Anheuser's beer is banned outright.
Anheuser has tried to acquire a minority stake in Budweiser Budvar on several occasions, most recently in 1992, provoking further animosity.
Anheuser's recent stepped-up effort abroad may have been inspired by the dimensions of imported beer's growth in the United States. Imports accounted for 8 percent of the United States market of 193 million barrels last year, up from 5.5 percent five years ago on similar consumption, and surged by 21 percent in the first quarter of this year even as overall beer consumption barely increased, Mr. Walters said.
But although beer is not Coke, Anheuser has been able to borrow certain pages from the Coca-Cola playbook. It is concentrating its efforts around its flagship, Budweiser, and playing up its product's American cachet. It is also adapting its packaging to the demands of international markets, introducing one-liter bottles in Argentina and China, for example, in addition to the 12-ounce single-serving cans and bottles that are more popular in the United States. And in another echo of Coke strategy, Anheuser says it understands the need to make large investments of money and patience overseas before sales take off.
Unlike Coke, though, Anheuser is new to the global way of thinking. "It's taken Anheuser some time to genuinely admit that people make beer outside of St. Louis," said Ms. Solomon of Salomon Smith Barney. "There's always been this idea that beer is such a regional business that American beer is for American customers."
That mentality is changing. Anheuser knows that the United States, where the beer-chugging population of men in their 20's will increase over the next few years, remains its core market. Still, Mr. Burrows said, "the opportunity for long-term growth and increasing shareholder value will come from expanding our business beyond the U.S."
Recently, that expansion has slowed. After shooting up more than 13 percent in both 1996 and 1997, the company's total overseas beer sales rose just six-tenths of 1 percent last year, largely as a result of the recession in Japan, according to the company's annual report. And overseas sales reached just 7.1 million barrels last year, around 7 percent of the total, with profits around 6.7 percent of Anheuser's total beer profits.
Foreign expansion is a costly exercise. Like Coca-Cola, Anheuser believes that a key to winning converts is making a product that tastes exactly the same everywhere in the world. So it sends brewmasters to its overseas plants to supervise the making of Budweiser from ingredients that are mostly imported from the United States. "If you don't have a consistent product, you can't build up brand loyalty," Mr. Walters said.
Anheuser was forced to modify its strategy in Japan last year. In the last three years, as the country's economy has been mired in recession, a cheaper beer type known as happoshu has emerged, supported by a reduced Government tax on such beer, which is less than 25 percent malt, Mr. Burrows said.
Anheuser sat out the first round, watching as Suntory Ltd. cornered the market for products priced about 30 percent below the 200 yen, or $1.75, that most premium beers are sold for. When Suntory's share went from zero to 18 percent in the category, Anheuser had a change of heart and began marketing its own brand of lower-malt beer, called Buddy's.
"We thought it was important to compete," Mr. Burrows said. Earlier this year, Anheuser also introduced a beer called Budweiser Fine Malt, intended for the older consumer, with a flavor that Mr. Burrows described as "slightly more bitter, fuller, darker, consistent with a Japanese beer profile." In other words, not a lager. Anheuser reported selling about 500,000 barrels of beer in Japan last year.
China has become Anheuser's fifth-largest overseas market since Budweiser was introduced there in 1993. Sold largely in hotels, discos and restaurants in coastal cities like Shanghai and Guangzhou, Bud is known locally as Baiwei, which Mr. Burrows translates as "100 magnificents."
Even so, China has been a complex frontier. Budweiser is priced two to three times higher than local premium beers, and distribution is a piecemeal arrangement. A price war among international beer makers in China during the last half of 1998 cut into sales because Anheuser did not lower its prices and volume declined, Mr. Burrows said. A lower-priced beer is being sold this year in test markets there, also under the Buddy's brand.
The largest foreign market for Budweiser is Canada, where 1.7 million barrels, brewed under arrangement with the Labatt Brewing Company unit of Interbrew of Belgium, were sold last year. It has also been successful in Ireland, where a 1986 distribution arrangement with Guinness, a Diageo P.L.C. subsidiary, has made Budweiser one of the top three beers. (Guinness, meanwhile, is still No. 1, followed by Budweiser or Heineken, depending on who is counting.)
Anheuser is aiming at younger people overseas because they are more likely to experiment with new brands. To lure them in Japan, for example, the company peddles Budweiser clothing and other products on the Web, and hands out free samples in bars.
Anheuser has been able to export many of its other tried-and-true marketing devices as well. The famed frogs appear in commercials in Ireland, England and on ESPN broadcasts around the world. The "Budweiser girls," spandex-clad representatives at various company-sponsored events, have their overseas incarnations as well. In China, generally a more conservative place socially, the women often turn up at bars dressed in skirts, vests and tennis shoes, Mr. Burrows said, although miniskirts are not unheard of. "It's whatever people in the market are most comfortable with," he said.
In Argentina, per capita beer consumption has risen to 9.275 gallons a year from 7.95 over the last 15 years, while wine consumption has declined. Budweiser signs have cropped up on venerable restaurant facades across Buenos Aires, including that of Los Inmortales, a shrine to tango, which now has four big red-and-white Bud signs. A major factor in Budweiser's advance has been the partnership with Compania Cervecerias Unidas, an established distributor that had long wanted to increase its sales in Argentina and was willing to compete against Quilmes, the most popular local beer, although Budweiser is priced higher.
Anheuser has also tried to affiliate its brand closely with popular sports events. Budweiser is the exclusive beer sponsor for the Copa America soccer competition in South America, for example. It also sponsors horse races in Ireland and American football matches in England.
As it tries to drive Budweiser sales overseas, Anheuser has made equity investments in other beer makers, notably Grupo Modelo S.A. de C.V., which makes Corona, the top-selling import in the United States. Anheuser holds a $1.6 billion, 50.2 percent stake in Modelo, profiting every time a Corona is sold even though it does not own the brand. And the company has an 8 percent stake in C.C.U. Argentina, its Argentine distributor, which, if one takes the long view, may carry Anheuser beyond Argentina. "Argentina is next to Brazil," Emanuel Goldman, a global consumer-products analyst for Merrill Lynch, pointed out, "and on a long-term basis, Brazil is very much in Anheuser's plans."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The flagship brand makes its presence known in Wuhan, China.
 
Chart: "Exporting 'Bud-weis-er"'
Anheuser-Busch is the biggest beer manufacturer in the United States, but it has barely tapped most foreign markets. Here is the breakdown of 1998 sales for Budweiser, its top-selling brand.
 
ASIA
Sales: 63.6 million
Share of sales: 5.0%
 
NORTH AMERICA
Sales: 1,093.0 million gallons
Share of sales: 86.0%
 
CARIBBEAN
Sales: 25.4 million
Share of sales: 2.0%
 
EUROPEAN UNION
Sales: 58.5 million
Share of sales: 4.6%
 
OTHER
Sales: 5.1 million
Share of sales: 0.4%
(Source: Impact Databank's Global Drinks Market Study)
 
Graph "Slow Growth" plots the foreign share of Anheuser-Busch's volume sales since 1988)(Source: Anheuser-Busch)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (67%); KO (NYSE) (65%); PGP (PAR) (65%); PG (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (94%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (94%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (84%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (67%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (65%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (65%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (65%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ARGENTINA (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (68%); 

STATE: CENTRAL CHINA (71%); EAST CHINA (71%); HUBEI, CHINA (56%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (71%); 

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (94%); MILLER BREWING CO (84%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (67%); COCA-COLA CO (65%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (65%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; CHINA; IRELAND; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (96%); ARGENTINA (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (68%); CENTRAL CHINA (71%); EAST CHINA (71%); HUBEI, CHINA (56%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; BEER; SALES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INDUSTRY PROFILES ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); BRANDING (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); BREWERIES (73%); BRAND EQUITY (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); SOFT DRINKS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); PRICE CUTTING (51%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L JAY LENO (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



481 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 27; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Cecilia Danieli, 56, Is Dead; Developer of Steel Minimills

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: ROME, June 22

 BODY:
Cecilia Danieli, who helped revolutionize the world steel industry by developing the compact steel mills known in the industry as minimills, died last Thursday of cancer. She was 56.
Though women made broad strides in Italian business in her lifetime, Ms. Danieli was one of a handful who reached the top in the male domain of heavy industry. Her presence at the top, she once said, meant that Danieli consistently boasted a higher percentage of women in management posts than Italian companies of comparable size. 
 The company she ran, Danieli Group, founded by her grandfather in the family's hometown of Buttrio in Northern Italy, developed in the 1950's from a small manufacturer of scissors and shears to a supplier of compact steel mills to small Northern Italian steelmakers that mainly supplied the steel reinforcing bars that were the sinews of postwar Italian reconstruction.
Beginning in the 1970's, the company began shipping its engineers abroad to build mills in places like Mozambique to produce steel bars or rolling mills in the United States. These mills revolutionized steelmaking and tilted the market away from the developed world by giving scores of countries in Africa, South America and the East Asia the means to produce steel cheaply and efficiently. They ultimately led, in highly industrialized countries like the United States, to the decline of traditional big steel mills and their replacement by smaller, more flexible minimills.
Ms. Danieli, one of four sisters, was forced to take charge of the family company founded by her grandfather in 1914 in the mid-1970's, when the oil price increases in the first half of that decade drained the capital to invest in steel and scuttled further expansion. In 1976, the company posted its first loss ever. That year, she assumed the top position of managing director next to her father, Luigi, who remained president of the company but concentrated on the engineering side of the business.
She quickly rejuvenated Danieli's management, then gained a major breakthrough when the company captured a $240 million contract for a steel mill in the former East Germany from its nearest competitor, the giant Krupp group of the former West Germany. She also expanded sales in North and South America, Asia and the former Soviet Union.
In addition to its Italian headquarters, the company, with roughly 3,000 employees, had affiliates in Youngstown, Ohio, and in Sweden.
In 1984, to keep the company financially as well as technologically fit, Ms. Danieli took the unusual step for Italian family-run companies, and against the opposition of her more traditional father, of listing Danieli on the stock exchange. About 54 percent of the company remained controlled by her and Gianpietro Benedetti, her companion, with whom she shared management of the company in recent years.
Ms. Danieli entered the company in 1969 after earning a degree in economics at nearby Trieste University. A fluent English speaker, she once worked as a student for a summer on a truck farm near Schuylerville, N.Y. She avoided the limelight often favored by Italian executives. But Danieli's business success reflected her drive for technical superiority and her untiring sales efforts. A passionate student of history and a mountain climber, in the mid-1990's she once spent Christmas Day in the mountains of Iran to negotiate a sale.
She is survived by Mr. Benedetti and three children.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cecilia Danieli (1982)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ITALY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DANIELI GROUP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: DANIELI GROUP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ITALY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (95%); DEATHS (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FAMILY (75%); CUTLERY & FLATWARE MFG (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (60%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: DANIELI, CECILIA; TAGLIABUE, JOHN CECILIA DANIELI (94%); GIANPIETRO BENEDETTI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



482 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 25; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Credit Card Dealer To Take a Charge

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS PARK, Minn., June 22

 BODY:
The Metris Companies, a marketer of credit cards to people with bad or limited credit histories, said today that it would take a one-time charge of $152.4 million for the conversion of preferred stock by a big investor.
Metris said the Thomas H. Lee Company, a Boston-based buyout specialist, had converted its existing holdings of preferred stock, warrants and notes into new preferred stock. Converting the investment created a one-time charge because the fair value of the new preferred stock is greater than that of Lee's original $300 million investment. 
 Shares of Metris rose $4.3125, or 12 percent today, to $38.3125. They have gained more than 50 percent this year.
Metris makes money by selling credit cards and related products like credit insurance and travel club memberships to consumers that bank lenders usually do not seek. In exchange for taking the higher risk, Metris charges higher interest rates, often in excess of 20 percent, and fees. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTRS (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (93%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (93%); NAICS238220 PLUMBING, HEATING & AIR-CONDITIONING CONTRACTORS (72%); SIC1711 PLUMBING, HEATING, & AIR-CONDITIONING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: METRIS COS; LEE, THOMAS H, CO METRIS COS INC (93%); LEE CO (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: METRIS COS; LEE, THOMAS H, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES PREFERRED STOCK (92%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (88%); CREDIT INSURANCE (73%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



483 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: An Old Solution, One-Time Revenue, Is Again Placed on the Budget Table

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 22

 BODY:
Despite a $2 billion surplus, Gov. George E. Pataki and leaders of the Legislature plan to resort to one-time sources of money, like selling assets or tapping little-known state funds, to resolve their differences on the state budget, the lawmakers and their aides said today.
Officials in both parties said the maneuvers were meant to bridge the gap in spending between the plans of Mr. Pataki and the Legislature, while allowing the Governor to cling to his contention that the budget increase is within the rate of inflation. Mr. Pataki has railed against one-time budget gimmicks in the past and has greatly reduced the state's reliance on them. 
 Also today, the Senate Majority Leader, Joseph L. Bruno, said that his house would not consider anything but emergency bills for the rest of the year, apparently ruling out action on a wide range of issues, from campaign finance reform to the question of where to build new power plants, on which there are differences between the two houses.
"Any of these issues that we have two different versions of, we'll take up in January," he said.
Mr. Bruno's comments came as a surprise to interest groups and legislators pushing for a variety of laws -- like making it a crime to block access to abortion clinics and increasing penalties for hate crimes -- and set his aides scrambling to assure reporters and others that some of these issues may still be alive.
He insisted that with the 1999 legislative session having reached its scheduled conclusion last week, the Senate would focus on the budget, now nearly three months overdue.
But the Senate has been reduced to a spectator's role in budget talks, as the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, and Mr. Pataki try to reach a loose agreement on how much the state should spend. Once an overall figure is set, the two houses of the Legislature will convene conference committees to work out the details.
Mr. Pataki, a Republican, has proposed a $72.7 billion budget, while the Senate's Republican majority is calling for $1.1 billion more. Mr. Silver, a Democrat, after earlier insisting on much higher spending, has all but agreed to the Senate figure, but he wants assurances that the Governor will not veto large parts of the budget, as he did last year.
Today, Mr. Bruno confirmed that there was talk of taking money from special state accounts and of selling or leasing some state assets to increase revenues. "We are open and receptive to utilizing funds that are available," he said.
Legislative aides in both houses said that using the money was the Governor's idea, and was agreed to by Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno. Lawmakers would put the money into a special fund for a specific purpose, so that it would not be counted in the state's $35 billion General Fund, allowing Mr. Pataki to assert that the General Fund had not grown faster than the rate of inflation.
Using one-time revenues would also allow the Governor to raise spending this year while keeping his promise to set aside all of the state's $2 billion surplus to insure that the state will be able to pay for property tax cuts scheduled for next year.
Top aides in both houses, said that at the Governor's suggestion, lawmakers planned to take money -- perhaps hundreds of millions of dollars -- from a fund created in the 1980's to help doctors pay for medical malpractice insurance, which has a large surplus. The state has tapped into the fund before, during the recession of the early 1990's.
But when asked, Mr. Pataki insisted, "We're not going to raid funds."
He acknowledged that he was looking at raising money through privatization, like the state's plan to turn Stewart Airport over to a private operator. He and his aides refused to say what assets he had in mind.
Independent budget analysts have long criticized the state for relying on "one shot" revenues, and they were again critical of the plan today. "The budget's outrageously late, but it would be even more outrageous to resort to gimmicks to balance the budget in this economy," said Diana Fortuna, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission.
Aides to Mr. Pataki insisted that the money would be used to pay for one-time expenses, not recurring needs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Awaiting Albany: 84 Days Delinquent"
Lawmakers said they planned to use one time sources of revenue to try to resolve budget differences, but the only direct negotiations consisted of a brief conversation between Gov. George E. Pataki and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (89%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (89%); NEW YORK, USA (89%); ALBANY, NY, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGETS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); VETO (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); INFLATION (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (53%); POWER PLANTS (53%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (53%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



484 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Two New Airline Alliances Are Aimed at Sharpening Competition

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
Two new airline alliances were announced yesterday, between Delta Air Lines and Air France, and among AMR's American Airlines, Swissair and Sabena World Airlines of Belgium.
While both accords are expected to integrate flight schedules and frequent-flier programs between partner airlines, the Delta-Air France long-range plan is to bring other partners into their fold, so they can better compete with the eight-member Star Alliance, led by UAL's United Airlines, and the eight-member One World alliance, led by American Airlines. Both the Star Alliance and One World consist of at least one airline from Europe, Asia, South America and Australia. 
 Airline partnerships, an outgrowth of the "open sky" agreements that have pried open aviation markets around the globe, have accelerated tremendously since Northwest Airlines and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines linked up in 1993. Eleven European airlines from seven nations banded together last year under the name of the Qualiflyer Group, and now serve more than 300 destinations. Austrian Airlines, Sabena and Swissair are members of the Atlantic Excellence partnership, as is Delta -- which said yesterday that it would continue as a member.
Many airlines belong to one or more alliances, because each one is thought to confer different strengths. Later this year Continental Airlines is expected to join the Wings alliance, which currently consists of Alitalia, KLM and Northwest. Yet Continental is already allied with Northwest and Alitalia, and Alitalia is a partner with KLM. And several Asian airlines that are not yet committed to existing alliances -- as Singapore Airlines appears committed to the Star Alliance -- have talked about forming a regional alliance.
Smaller airlines benefit from alliances by being able to expand their reach with the help of their partners, a reach that otherwise would be financially prohibitive. And bigger airlines benefit by being able to offer their passengers seamless travel and flights on partner airlines to destinations to which they could never afford to fly on their own.
Early results suggest that alliances can be profitable. Last month, both United and Lufthansa said that their membership in the Star Alliance -- which also includes Air Canada, Air New Zealand, Ansett of Australia, Scandinavian Airlines System, Thai Airways and Varig of Brazil -- contributed significantly to their respective bottom lines. United said the alliance contributed about $200 million, or about 10 percent, of its $2.3 billion profit in 1998. For Lufthansa, the alliance contributed about 18 percent, or $265 million, of its 1998 operating profit of $1.5 billion.
 
Travel in the Balkans
The end of the NATO bombing campaign in the Balkans will not revive the region's travel or tourist industry anytime soon. But Austrian Airlines has already restored its daily flight between Vienna and Skopje, Macedonia, and is evaluating whether to restore service to Tirana, the capital of Albania. Both flights were suspended after the bombs began falling on March 24.
Two months ago PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated that the fighting in the Balkans could cost hotels, travel agencies, airlines and cruise ships as much as $100 million. The conflict certainly seems to have taken a heavy toll on travel to Western Europe.
"Regardless of whether you think of it as 'Clinton's War,' 'NATO's War,' 'Our War' or 'Their War,' there is no question that the American-led nightly bombings of Yugoslavia have brought the annual summer invasion of American tourists into Europe to a near halt," Joel M. Abels, the editor and publisher of Travel Trade, wrote in that trade publication's issue of June 14. With few exceptions, he added, "travel agents, tour operators, cruise lines and airlines watched as the booking season was stopped practically dead in its tracks."
Most travel industry analysts think that situation will improve, now that the bombing has ended -- especially since airlines, cruise ships and European hotels are dangling attractive discounts. British Airways and American Airlines are currently offering two round-trip economy tickets to London for the price of one, with certain restrictions. And cruise lines are dangling upgrades and substantial discounts on their Mediterranean cruises. Windstar Cruises is offering as much as 50 percent on its European itineraries, plus a ship-board credit of $100 for guests who book by July 19.
 
Order for New Ships
Princess Cruises, which is owned by the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company, has ordered four new ships for delivery between October 2001 and May 2004.
Two of the ships, which will carry 1,950 passengers each, will be built by Chantiers de l'Atlantique of France. The other two, which will each accommodate 2,600 passengers, will be built by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries of Japan. P & O Cruises, a sister company, has also ordered a 2,600-passenger ship from Fincantieri of Italy. The five ships will cost approximately $2 billion.
Including three ships already under construction and scheduled for delivery through 2002, the Princess fleet will grow from 9 ships currently to 16 and the number of berths will more than double to 30,000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leo F. Mullin, Left, the chairman of Delta Air Lines, and Jean-Cyril Spinetta, his counterpart at Air France, announced an accord yesterday in Paris. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ;BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); AF (PAR) (90%); AF (AMS) (90%); AIZ (ASX) (58%); AIR (NZX) (58%); AC.A (TSX) (58%); GOLL3 (BOVESPA) (58%); GOL (NYSE) (58%); LHA (FRA) (58%); C6L (SGX) (54%); SAS NOK (OSL) (52%); SAS (STO) (52%); SAS (CPH) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481212 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (92%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BELGIUM (91%); AUSTRALIA (90%); AUSTRIA (90%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (90%); KOSOVO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (85%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC; AIR FRANCE; AMERICAN AIRLINES; SWISSAIR; SABENA WORLD AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES; AUSTRIAN AIRLINES; PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS; TRAVEL TRADE (PUB); PRINCESS CRUISES INC; PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO; CHANTIERS DE L'ATLANTIQUE; MITSUBISH HEAVY INDUSTRIES; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; FINCANTIERI (CO); P&O CRUISES ALITALIA - CIA AEREA ITALIANA SPA (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); SWISS INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES AG (92%); SABENA BELGIAN WORLD AIRLINES SA (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (90%); AIR NEW ZEALAND LTD (58%); AIR CANADA (58%); GOL LINHAS AEREAS INTELIGENTES SA (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AUSTRIAN AIRLINES GROUP AG (55%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (54%); SAS AB (52%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC; AIR FRANCE; AMERICAN AIRLINES; SWISSAIR; SABENA WORLD AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES; AUSTRIAN AIRLINES; PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS; TRAVEL TRADE (PUB); PRINCESS CRUISES INC; PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO; CHANTIERS DE L'ATLANTIQUE; MITSUBISH HEAVY INDUSTRIES; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; FINCANTIERI (CO); P&O CRUISES NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE; VIENNA (AUSTRIA); SKOPJE (MACEDONIA); TIRANA (ALBANIA); BALKAN STATES; SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BELGIUM (91%); AUSTRALIA (90%); AUSTRIA (90%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (90%); KOSOVO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (85%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (95%); AIRLINES (93%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (83%); SHIPBUILDING (79%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); BOMBINGS (62%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: ;ABELS, JOEL M; MCDOWELL, EDWIN; MULLIN, LEO F; SPINETTA, JEAN-CYRIL JEAN-CYRIL SPINETTA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



485 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: World Bank and Treasury Nominee at Odds Over Loan to China

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22

 BODY:
In a rare public conflict between Washington and the World Bank, Treasury Secretary-designate Lawrence H. Summers said today that the United States would vote against a disputed loan to China that would resettle poor Chinese farmers to land that Tibetans claim as their own.
Despite the Clinton Administration objections, World Bank officials said they expected that the loan would probably be approved at a meeting of the bank's board on Thursday. Originally, the vote was to take place today, but it was delayed so that James Wolfensohn, the bank's president, could preside over what has become an highly politicized dispute over the institution's role in China. 
 If the United States opposes the loan, as Mr. Summers indicated it will during his confirmation hearing today, it will probably further strain relations with Beijing. Chinese officials have said American efforts to block the loan are interfering with China's internal affairs.
It would also put Mr. Summers in open disagreement with Mr. Wolfensohn, a strong-minded former investment banker who was the Administration's choice to run the bank -- a job Mr. Summers once sought. He has resisted pressure to change terms of the loan, arguing that it aids some of China's poorest people, exactly what the bank's anti-poverty programs are intended to do.
World Bank officials say the effects of the voluntary resettlement of 58,000 farmers on the ethnic makeup of the region has been vastly exaggerated by pro-Tibet groups. Their complaints have carried the day in Congress, however, where Tibet's resistance to Beijing's mandates are a popular cause.
"The United States will be voting to oppose the project because of concerns in the environmental areas and concerns in the resettlement areas," Mr. Summers said today.
The Treasury Department represents the United States on the bank's board, where Washington holds 18 percent of the votes -- not enough to block a loan unless it wins over many allies. "I think this may pass over the American objections," one senior member of the bank's board said today.
Under the plan the bank would lend China $40 million to move the farmers from an overcrowded and badly eroded area in the northeastern corner of Qinghai Province to a sparsely populated, somewhat less poor region in the province 300 miles west.
Qinghai, just north of the Tibet Autonomous Region on the Tibetan Plateau, was settled by Tibetans and Mongolians. Today, however, most of its five million residents are ethnic Chinese.
The Tibetan groups that have campaigned against the World Bank project say that it will help Beijing dilute Tibetan culture. American officials clearly have their doubts about that argument, but they were unwilling to defend the loan and appear to be siding with Beijing. Forty percent of the proposed settlers would be ethnic Chinese, while the rest would be Hui Muslims and others, including some ethnic Tibetans. The bank says it believes that effects on Tibetan culture would be negligible.
While the United States often abstains from voting for World Bank projects, especially those involving China, it is rare for Mr. Wolfensohn and the Administration to be caught in such open discord over China policy. The fight could be costly: support for both the bank and its sister institution, the International Monetary Fund, is scarce in Congress.
American opposition to the loan may also inflame opinions in China, where anti-American demonstrations following NATO's bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade last month led to claims that the United States is trying to undercut the Beijing Government. China already regards the whole debate as an effort to back followers of the Dalai Lama, Tibet's spiritual leader.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TIBET (96%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%); QINGHAI, CHINA (88%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIBET; CHINA; QINGHAI PROVINCE (CHINA); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TIBET (96%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%); QINGHAI, CHINA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); POPULATION DENSITY (69%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



486 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Budget Finale in Albany

 BODY:
Without the pressure of deadlines, Gov. George Pataki and the Legislature would be arguing about this year's New York State budget until Halloween. But since a raft of previously enacted Medicaid cost reductions are due to expire next Wednesday, wiping out savings that state and local governments were counting on, a strong incentive exists for all sides to reach an agreement soon. In a welcome step, Sheldon Silver, Speaker of the Democratic-controlled Assembly, has scaled back his spending demands. It remains for Mr. Pataki to compromise by dropping proposed cuts in school aid and health care payments and promising not to veto at least some of the items desired by the lawmakers. 
 The stalemate results from an unusual set of financial circumstances. Prosperity, particularly on Wall Street, has created a state budget surplus of at least $2 billion. But because the Governor and the Legislature have enacted budgets in past years with tax cuts and expenses that balloon in size, the state is projecting multibillion-dollar deficits in the future. Mr. Pataki was thus in the odd position of demanding austerity for the lean years ahead at a time when the state is flush. However prudent his position might seem fiscally, it has not succeeded politically. Even the Republican-controlled Senate has made it clear it would reject his proposed cuts in health and education.
The Governor's $73 billion budget, announced in January, was punitive in many respects. It reneged on commitments to help New York City, and its cuts in school aid, college tuition assistance and payments to hospitals, nursing homes and health clinics hit New Yorkers of modest means the hardest. Mr. Silver has been right to oppose the worst of these cuts, but his opening bid of adding $2.6 billion in spending was too much for the Governor and the State Senate. His request is now said to be in the range of $1.1 billion.
That seems like a reasonable number for Mr. Pataki to accept without resorting to gimmicks or raiding independent state funds. The first priority should be schools, especially in the city. The Governor and the Legislature should then make sure that Medicaid reimbursement rates are sufficient to maintain health care for the poor and uninsured. There should be some funding also for vital mental health programs, especially for potentially unstable people released from mental hospitals.
New Yorkers wondering why any cuts at all are necessary in prosperous times need look no further than the enact-now, pay-later strategy of their elected leaders. The Governor's zeal for cutting taxes is appreciated by voters, and he has indeed forced a fundamental change in New York's fiscal policy. But New Yorkers have also never been given an honest accounting when it comes to tax cuts. At some point they will have to realize that the price for tax cuts may be unacceptably large spending cuts in areas of vital interest. First the Governor and the Legislature have to get through this year. A spirit of compromise would help. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); MEDICAID (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); HOSPITALS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); NURSING HOMES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (64%); MENTAL HEALTH (60%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



487 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Measure to Limit Imports Of Steel Is Killed by Senate
The Senate killed a bill that would have sharply restricted imports of foreign steel to the United States, a blow to unions and steelmakers and a victory for President Clinton, who had warned that the legislation would revive protectionism.
The bill, which became a divisive argument over the merits of free trade and the economic wisdom of protecting steelworkers at the expense of raising prices on a range of everyday goods, would have rolled back imports of steel to the levels before the Asian economic crisis, ending a surge that began as countries sought to export their way out of trouble. Page A1. 

Lehman Brothers Posts Solid Profit
Lehman Brothers, which has been broadening from its traditional base as a bond house into equities and investment banking, reported second-quarter earnings that were far above analysts' expectations. But despite the unexpectedly high profits, shares of the company fell $3.6875, or 6.11 percent, to $56.625, on volume of more than four million shares -- more than four times the daily average. C2.
 
3Com Results Beat Expectations
3Com reported fourth-quarter earnings a penny above analysts' expectations based on strong growth in products used to manage data flow over networks. C2.
 
Stock Prices in Broad Retreat
Stock prices staged a broad retreat as a further rise in long-term interest rates and a late round of selling depressed the market. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 94.35 points, or nine-tenths of a percent, to 10,721.63. Technology stocks dragged down the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index. The S.& P. 500 lost 13.12 points, or just less than 1 percent, to 1,335.88. Nasdaq fell 50.02 points, or 1.9 percent, to 2,580.26. C14.
 
Bond prices fell as corporate borrowers prepared to sell about $10 billion in debt. The yield on the benchmark 30-year issue rose to 6.06 percent from 6.02 percent. C14.
 
Senate Panel Approves Summers
The Senate Finance Committee unanimously approved the nomination of Lawrence H. Summers, left, to be the next Secretary of the Treasury, clearing the way for a confirmation vote by the full Senate as early as next week. But the majority leader, Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, said a final vote could be pushed back because Democrats were threatening to add health care reform and other initiatives to spending bills over Republican objections. C2.
 
Europeans to Inspect Coke Plants
The 15-nation European Union announced plans for health inspections of its own in Coca-Cola's plants in Belgium and France that had produced soft drinks blamed for outbreaks of illness early this month. C11.
 
Ford Plans Factory in Russia
Ford Motor announced a preliminary agreement with the Russian Government to begin construction in July of an automobile factory near St. Petersburg. C11.
 
New Proposals on Fund Directors
The mutual fund industry's leading trade group, the Investment Company Institute, is expected to recommend sweeping new rules tomorrow to strengthen the role of independent directors, going beyond earlier proposals by Arthur Levitt, the S.E.C. chairman. C8.
 
Technology Said to Enrich Economy
The financial benefits of the Internet and high technology go beyond quick riches for high-profile entrepreneurs and investors to the nation's entire economy, according to a Commerce Department study. C8.
 
Last Witness Appears for Microsoft
Microsoft's final witness at its antitrust trial, Richard L. Schmalensee, dean of M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management, contended there was no substance to any of the Government's charges and that Microsoft, far from holding a monopoly in personal computer operating system software, faced vicious and serious competitors. C8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,721.63 down 94.35
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.06% up 0.04
The Dollar -- 121.68 yen down 0.74
 
Graph tracks Lehman Brothers share price since Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); FORDP (PAR) (68%); F (NYSE) (68%); KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); BELGIUM (65%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (64%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); FORD MOTOR CO (68%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); BELGIUM (65%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (64%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BONDS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INSPECTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); SOFT DRINK MFG (62%); SOFT DRINKS (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); TRENT LOTT (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



488 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2018 words

HEADLINE: Lagging on Year 2000 Bug, Russia Starts Major Effort

SERIES: COUNTING TO 2000: The Russian Riddle

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 22

 BODY:
Armed with thick repair manuals and rosters of experts, Russian officials have opened an all-out campaign to expel the so-called year 2000 bug from the nation's eight million computers, their microchips and their programs.
But 60 miles south of the Kremlin in the little town of Stupino, Mike Tuffs is not waiting for the victory party. Mr. Tuffs, regional technology manager for Mars Inc., the American candy maker, asked the regional government and utility officials last year how they planned to deal with the bug. 
 What he found was that many did not know that their equipment was vulnerable and that others believed -- wrongly -- that they were already protected.
Mars has since outfitted its two Russian factories so that they can continue some production during power and water breakdowns, and it is stockpiling raw materials in anticipation of transportation and customs problems.
"Our greatest concern is for public utilities and state organizations," Mr. Tuffs said. "It would appear that many public organizations are not aware of the equipment that they use and how they interact and how a failure in one area will affect another."
What worries Mr. Tuffs also rattles the technology chiefs of other companies, as well as computer experts and consultants. They say Russia has awakened to the year 2000 threat too late, spread the alarm too thinly and has far too little money to perform much more than digital triage on the Government and economy.
"There's a potential for major damage to the infrastructure," said Andrei N. Terekhov, a mathematician from St. Petersburg and the general director of Lanit-Terkom, a business that works on year 2000 problems.
The difficulties arise from longtime reliance of computer programs on two-digit date fields for any year, with 19 presumed to be the preceding digits. Many programs were custom written by people who have died, dropped out sight or have moved to Western Europe or the United States and are working on the problem there. "There are obsolete applications on which, very often, entire factories, banks and real-time critical systems depend," Mr. Terekhov said.
There is also the potential that not much will happen. Government officials say they are addressing all problems in critical areas like atomic energy and nuclear missiles. American officials said they were confident that human safeguards would prevent accidental launchings. The semiprivate companies that supply power, gas and other essential services say they are at work, too.
In addition, Russia enjoys a peculiar advantage. Because it has been slow to adopt computer technology, many functions like factory processes can be run manually.
Alexander Miasnikov, a representative here of the Gartner Group, technology consultants from Connecticut, said in an e-mail posting that most major Russian companies would solve year 2000 problems in their central operations, but that "in remote branches there can be some problems."
The Government predicted in April that even if its assault on the year 2000 bug proceeded as planned, up to a fifth of all computers would malfunction in January. With 56,000 Government computer systems, 16,000 of them critical, officials worry about everything from inoperative elevators to a freeze-up in the network that is supposed to tabulate the vote in the parliamentary election on Jan. 12.
"I can't and shouldn't say either that something is not going to happen or speak of catastrophic outcomes," said Aleksandr Krupnov, the chairman of the state Committee on Telecommunications and Information Technology, which is leading the effort on the year 2000. "I stick to something in the middle."
The Government effort began in earnest in the fall. Regional centers were set up to certify technicians whom businesses could hire. A Government-wide inspection of equipment and new backup plans were ordered. American officials familiar with the plans said Moscow was serious and focused. Nevertheless, the problems are huge. An estimated two-thirds of the desktop computers need repair. But most owners cannot be warned. Many manufacturers are out of business or lack sales records.
Many programs used outside big businesses are bootlegged, illegally copied. Hundreds of military and industrial tasks rely on programs that are decades old, written by programmers who may have left Russia. And nearly everyone is too broke to spend on a nebulous bug, anyway.
The Government said its repairs would cost $1 billion to $3 billion. That is up to one-seventh of a Federal budget that already cannot pay some pensions and debts.
Most agencies have been told to raid their budgets to solve the problems. One expert here said some businesses were having trouble because the Western suppliers whose equipment needs upgrading have yet to be paid, and they are refusing to make repairs until they receive their money.
Much of the nation is uninterested or unaware of the threat. An informal survey of 50 civic leaders in Irkutsk, a city of 500,000 on the Mongolian border, showed that 20 had heard of year 2000 defects.
Ron Lewin, a computer consultant here who also heads the technology committee of the American Chamber of Commerce in Russia, said:
"At this point, contingency planning is the most important element, developing plans on what to do if there is no water or no electricity. There's not a lot of time left, and there's a high likelihood of failure for some of the utilities."
 
$4 Million to Repair Weapons Systems
The one area where catastrophe seems all but impossible is in nuclear weapons. Officials say most crucial military computers, including those in the nuclear force, use programs that are not date sensitive, rendering them immune to year 2000 problems.
Russian and American officials allow that in a worst-case scenario early warning systems could send false signals as the satellites on which they rely drift slowly out of alignment. But because such errors have been anticipated, the chances that they would lead to a nuclear strike are all but nil.
Any remaining problems are so small, officers contend, that they can be erased with the installation soon of a mere $4 million worth of new computers and programs.
Washington and Moscow have also proposed exchanging radar information and other figures this winter to diminish the risk of misinterpretations. Russia has said it is suspending cooperation on year 2000 problems to protest the United States' role in the NATO attack on Yugoslavia. But that seems highly unlikely to affect nuclear weapons seriously.
Experts appear to believe that midwinter losses of electricity or other basic services will cause hardship in many areas, but stop short of human catastrophe. Brownouts and other breakdowns could cause millions of dollars in damage to industrial complexes like smelters and steel mills that depend on continuous power supplies. Telephone and data-transmission disruptions could leave businesses without the basic information that they need to compile bills and settle accounts.
The experts also are concerned about nuclear reactors and other highly complex sites. The fear is that workers usually adept at handling problems could be overwhelmed by four, five or six minor failures at once.
Russia does not depend on technology as much as the West, meaning that the damage could be limited. Soviet administrators sharply restricted the use of computers. The seven million desktops, 150,000 servers and several thousand mainframes in use are not extensive for such a technologically muscular country.
Although many factories operate with 1950's-technology hand switches and analog gauges, the industrial spine -- oil and gas pipelines, electrical grids, telephone systems and transportation networks -- all rely on microchips and computers to run smoothly.
Much of Russia and Europe's natural gas flows through the Siberian pipeline that belongs to Gazprom, a monopoly that the Government still largely owns. The Central Intelligence Agency says the mainframe computers at Gazprom almost certainly require revamping, as may be the case with microchips at hundreds of remote pumping stations.
Gazprom officials say they can handle any problems, perhaps by placing workers at the remote pumping stations. But the utility has not released details.
The electricity monopoly, Unified Energy Systems, said this month that 17,000 of its 50,000 computers had failed to meet year 2000 standards.
"We think that by September we will be able to replace the most important and vital parts of the system," a press release said. "We will try to renovate the rest by the end of the year."
 
Challenge for Airlines And Air Control
The Government says that it is renovating the only two major air-traffic-control centers that depend on digital computers, in Moscow and Rostov-on-Don, and that others do not require upgrades.
But most of the 400-odd Russian aviation companies have computers with year 2000 problems. The International Civil Aviation Organization is asking the Russian airlines and plane manufacturers for information on their preventive measures. In the spring, Russian insurance companies raised the rates charged airline companies in anticipation of year 2000 risks.
The Gartner Group, the consulting firm, ranks Russia among the worst prepared nations for the year 2000 transition. Gartner predicts a month of turmoil in Russian financial markets, two months for utilities and hospital and three months for transportation and telecommunications.
Other American specialists, though, say they believe that the Russians will weather whatever January brings by virtue of two proficiencies. One is their expertise in programming and maintaining computers, a skill honed by years of military spending. Russia may be poor, those experts say, but it has a corps of computer technologists deserving of any Westerner's envy.
The other advantage is the ability to deal with adversities. Suspensions of power, water and telephone service would cripple most Western cities. In much of Russia, such breakdowns are a fact of life.
 
International Firms Make Their Own Plans
But many multinational companies that have conducted their own research -- Nestle, British Petroleum and Global One, an international telecommunications concern -- have elected to prepare for trouble.
Mars candy executives say they expect power and telephone blackouts in early January, followed by weeks of scheduled brownouts. To avoid any tieup of imports and exports in customs offices, Mars will suspend international shipments around Jan. 1.
The company also has begun to educate local officials and businesses about the problem, part of a longstanding effort to maintain good relations with Moscow and the region. The need is there, Mr. Tuffs said. In some cases, Mars has received written assurances from officials outside Stupino that the area is ready for the new year, even when the company's examination proved otherwise.
Executives at Global One said the long-distance networks were safe, but planned to beef up emergency power supplies at a computer center downtown. Most local calls are routed and timed by a switch whose maker no longer exists, according to Lawrence Haw, a telecommunications consultant here.
"It's not year 2000 compatible," Mr. Haw said. "There's nobody to work on this switch. There haven't been any software upgrades. There's no vendor for the switch any more. So who's going to do the upgrades?"
Against this backdrop of possible chaos and uncertainty, more than a few Russian experts bridle at the notion that their efforts may not meet Western standards. When a top computer specialist at the Russian Federal Aviation Service, Boris V. Mikhailovich, was asked by a reporter whether year 2000 preparations at air-traffic-control centers were adequate, he had a ready response.
"What do you think I am?" he asked. "An enemy of my own people?"

Counting to 2000
 Articles under this heading throughout 1999 will examine efforts worldwide to prepare computers for the year 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Boris V. Mikhailovich discussed preparing aviation computers. (Jacqueline Mia Foster for The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: IT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (84%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: MARS INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ATOMIC ENERGY; ATOMIC WEAPONS; MISSILES; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; GAS (FUEL) NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); TRENDS (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL MIKE TUFFS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



489 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: 32 Receive Grants From MacArthur Foundation

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

 BODY:
The annual grants popularly known as the genius awards announced yesterday by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation were heavily weighted toward the New York area, home to about a third of the 32 recipients.
"There is a clump there this year because we just couldn't pass them up," said Daniel J. Socolow, director of the MacArthur Fellows program. 
 The New York City area recipients included a community organizer, a couple who are both architects, a reporter, a history professor, a computer scientist and several artists.
The grants, awarded this year to 17 men and 15 women, ranged from $235,000 to $375,000, depending on the age of the recipient. The youngest recipient was 28 and the oldest was 66. Since 1981, when the program started, 563 Fellows have been named.
Rather than genius awards, the foundation prefers to think of them as grants to experts who are particularly gifted in their fields. The recipients are selected anonymously -- there is no application -- and given the money over five years to pursue whatever interests they desire. Recipients do not have to produce anything for the foundation, and they get free health insurance.
The winners were these:
Jillian F. Banfield, 39, Madison, Wis., an associate professor of geology and geophysics at the University of Wisconsin, has contributed fundamental insights into the physical and chemical forces that shape the earth's surface, $290,000.
Carolyn R. Bertozzi, 32, Albany, Calif., an assistant professor of chemistry at the University of California at Berkeley, has made important contributions to understanding how cells interact, $255,000
Bruce G. Blair, 51, Washington, a foreign policy analyst at the Brookings Institution, is a leader seeking to reduce the risks of nuclear engagement in a rapidly changing geopolitical environment, $350,000.
John Bonifaz, 33, Boston, a public interest lawyer and executive director of the National Voting Rights Institute, uses innovative litigation to re-examine campaign finance reform arguments typically debated on First Amendment grounds, $260,000.
Shawn Carlson, 39, San Diego, a physicist, educator and the founder and director of the Society for Amateur Scientists, has worked to make the scientific process less mystifying and more comprehensible to non-scientists, $290,000.
Mark Danner, 40, New York and Berkeley, Calif., a staff writer at The New Yorker and former story editor at The New York Times Magazine, specializing in foreign affairs, offers a new perspective on the state of human rights and the role of the United States in the international community, $295,000.
Alison L. Des Forges, 57, Buffalo, a writer, researcher, and human rights advocate, has documented and brought to light the causes of genocide, $375,000
Elizabeth Diller, 45, and Ricardo Scofidio, 64, New York, have created an alternative form of architectural practice that unites design, performance and electronic media with cultural and architectural theory and criticism, $375,000.
Saul Friedlander, 66, Los Angeles, a professor of history at the University of California at Los Angeles and a scholar of the Third Reich and the Holocaust, has transformed our understanding of this period by weaving into a coherent whole the perspectives of the participants: ordinary Germans, party activists, military and political figures, victims and survivors, $375,000.
Jennifer L. Gordon, 33, Brooklyn, a lawyer and community organizer who founded the Workplace Project in 1992 as a worker's center to fight employment abuse and discrimination against immigrant workers, $260,000.
David M. Hillis, 40, Austin, Tex., a molecular biologist and professor of zoology at the University of Texas, has developed new molecular genetic analyses that contribute to our understanding of the history of life on earth, $295,000.
Sara Horowitz, 36, New York, a lawyer and executive director of Working Today, has helped promote the interests of people engaged in flexible employment arrangements, $275,000.
Jacqueline Jones, 51, Wellesley, Mass., a professor of American civilization at Brandeis University and a social historian whose scholarship examines the experience of workers through the lens of economic transformations throughout United States history, $350,000.
Laura L. Kiessling, 38, Madison, Wis., an associate professor of biochemistry at the University of Wisconsin, has developed innovative organic syntheses that expand our capacity to understand and control the biology of inflammation, $285,000.
Leslie V. Kurke, 39, Berkeley, Calif., an associate professor of classics and comparative literature at the University of California, has been at the forefront of cultural poetics, the study of the classics that combines the study of literary sources with other fields, $290,000.
David Levering Lewis, 63, New York, a professor of history at Rutgers University, biographer, cultural historian and scholar of race relations, $375,000.
Juan Martin Maldacena, 30, Cambridge, Mass., an associate professor of physics at Harvard University who works in the highly abstract field of string theory, which focuses on the possibility of matter that cannot yet be detected, $245,000.
Gay J. McDougall, 51, Washington, executive director of the International Human Rights Law Group, has crafted human rights legislation for emerging democracies and has helped lead the struggle for human rights in southern Africa, $350,000.
Campbell McGrath, 37, Miami Beach, an associate professor of creative writing at Florida International University and a poet whose work is characterized by lyrical skill, intellectual breadth, humor and blending of high and low subject matter, $280,000.
Dennis Albert Moore, 54, Belem-Para, Brazil, a Michigan native, has helped preserve the language and culture of endangered indigenous groups in Brazil, $365,000.
Elizabeth Murray, 58, New York, a professor at Bard College and a painter known for large, three-dimensional canvases, $375,000.
Pepon Osorio, 44, New York, an installation artist whose work combines Hispanic popular culture and traditional aesthetic sensibilities to explore community dynamics, $315,000.
Peter Shor, 39, Florham Park, N.J., a computer scientist at AT&T Research Labs whose discoveries are increasing the speed of some calculations, $290,000.
Eva Silverstein, 28, Stanford, Calif., a theoretical physicist, questions fundamental assumptions of physics theory, $235,000.
Wilma Alpha Subra, 55, New Iberia, La., a chemist and an environmentalist, helps ordinary citizens in Louisiana understand, cope with, and combat toxic chemicals, $370,000.
Ken Vandermark, 34, Chicago, a composer, improviser, and tenor saxophone and clarinet player, is gaining recognition, as one of America's most promising young musicians, $265,000.
Naomi Wallace, 38, Prospect, Ky., a playwright, employs poetic and highly original language and a strong sociopolitical sensibility in her works, $285,000.
Jeffrey R. Weeks, 42, Canton, N.Y., a mathematician and educator who has analyzed knots and interprets the shape of the universe, $305,000.
Fred Wilson, 44, New York, an installation artist, explores the relationship between museums and works of art, $315,000.
Xu Bing, 44, New York, an artist, uses ancient Chinese methods of print making and calligraphy to explore new dimensions for contemporary Chinese art, $315,000.
Ofelia Zepeda, 44, Tucson, Ariz., a professor of linguistics at the University of Arizona who is devoted to preserving Native American languages and revitalizing tribal communities, $320,000. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (69%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MACARTHUR, JOHN D AND CATHERINE T, FOUNDATION NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (51%); JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (93%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACARTHUR, JOHN D AND CATHERINE T, FOUNDATION JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (93%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (69%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS FOUNDATIONS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); WRITERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (85%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CHEMISTRY (75%); PHYSICS (75%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (75%); HISTORY (75%); LITIGATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%); GENOCIDE (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); 

PERSON: MACFARQUHAR, NEIL DAVID M HILLIS (55%); MACARTHUR FELLOWS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



490 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Protectionism and American Steel

 BODY:
The Senate refused yesterday to go along with the House of Representatives in voting to impose import quotas to protect the steel industry. That is a welcome rebuff to protectionist impulses that remain strong even while the American economy is booming. 
 A procedural vote in the Senate showed that supporters of the quota bill, which was passed by the House overwhelmingly earlier this year, do not have enough support to push the bill through. Only 42 senators voted to cut off debate and force a vote, far fewer than the 60 needed.
The bill would have imposed quotas on steel imports, in direct violation of the country's obligations as a member of the World Trade Organization. It would be likely to damage the nation's economy both by provoking retaliation and by hurting the exports of American products that include steel.
The steel industry nonetheless has scored some major successes in its efforts to keep out inexpensive foreign steel that flooded into this country after the Asian economic crisis slashed demand for steel in other countries. Responding to the pressure, the Clinton Administration has aggressively sought to enforce anti-dumping laws, which allow high tariffs on items sold either below the cost of production or for less than the exporting country charges at home. This week, Commerce Secretary William Daley announced more dumping investigations. The result of these efforts, combined with incipient Asian recovery, has been a sharp fall in steel imports.
The threat of world recession has eased since last summer. But such countries as Argentina, Brazil and Indonesia, which are targeted in the latest round of dumping investigations, are in recession, and efforts to dampen their exports could weaken their economies even further. While the Commerce Department should enforce the law, it should take care not to act unfairly just to pacify a politically powerful domestic steel industry. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); QUOTAS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PROTECTIONISM (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



491 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Senate Kills Effort to Impose Tight Limits on Steel Imports

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22

 BODY:
The Senate killed a bill today that would have sharply restricted imports of foreign steel to the United States, a blow to unions and steelmakers and a victory for President Clinton, who had warned that the legislation would revive protectionism.
After some furious last-minute vote-switching, supporters of placing tight quotas on imported steel -- both Democrats and Republicans from steelmaking states, which have been hit by Asian imports -- attracted 42 of the 60 votes required to end debate and move toward a vote on the actual legislation. 
 The bill would have rolled back imports of steel to the levels before the Asian economic crisis. As countries have sought to export their way out of their economic trouble, they have been shipping low-priced steel to the United States.
After the House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved the import quotas in March, the debate over steel quotas took on far greater dimensions. It became a divisive argument over the merits of free trade, and the economic wisdom of protecting steelworkers at the expense of raising prices on a range of everyday goods -- from American-made cars to housing, airplanes and farm equipment.
In the end, Mr. Clinton won the day by allying with key Republicans, including the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, who had earlier indicated that he might support the legislation but took to the floor of the Senate just before the vote today to warn his colleagues that "the consequences would be dire indeed" if the measure passed."
Mr. Lott, who a few days ago seemed to be enjoying the Administration's discomfort on the issue, sounded today surprisingly like a member of the White House economic team. He argued from the well of the Senate that the bill would "adversely affect our businesses and farmers who depend upon access to the international market."
"There's no question that this bill will undercut the economic growth that we enjoy today," he said.
The action also removed Vice President Al Gore from a political quandary. He had been caught between the Administration's free-trade instincts and the United Steelworkers of America, whose support he seeks in his Presidential bid.
On Monday night Mr. Gore, siding with the White House, called the legislation unnecessary, but he was reluctant to join in working actively for its defeat. That was left largely to members of the Cabinet, especially the outgoing Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, and Commerce Secretary William M. Daley. Mr. Daley contended that a series of actions he had taken to prevent the "dumping" of steel in the American market -- including placing retaliatory tariffs on Japan, South Korea and Brazil -- was already succeeding. On Monday Mr. Daley announced a new set of investigations into shipments of cold-rolled steel into the United States, a last-minute effort to convince Congress that the Administration was cracking down on countries that might be violating dumping laws.
The Senate's brief but heated debate today on the steel quotas showed the degree to which the economic prosperity of the 1990's has changed the nature of political discourse. While senators from many steel-producing states argued passionately about the need to protect the jobs of their constituents, they were outnumbered by those who concluded that an industry that employs 170,000 workers should not be protected by raising the price of steel for virtually every American consumer.
One estimate, put together by the Institute for International Economics, suggested that each job saved by the import quota would cost consumers $800,000, an assertion that the steel lobby never addressed.
Several senators from both parties warned that the bill, while it might protect steelworkers, risked repeating what is now considered one of Congress's greatest economic blunders of this century: the Smoot-Hawley Act of 1930, a set of tariffs that many economists now contend deepened the Great Depression. While economic conditions today are the exact opposite, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat, warned that passage of the bill would result in "an immediate reaction" around the world, as countries imposed retaliatory restrictions on American products.
In the end, last-minute lobbying by agricultural interests, which would probably have been the first victims of any retaliation, turned the vote around. "They came on big time," said Senator Rick Santorum, the Pennsylvania Republican who served as the floor manager for the defeated bill. "And the White House lobbied hard. They saw this as a big political loser for Al Gore, and they wanted to protect him."
In fact, that appears to be exactly what happened in the last 90 seconds or so of voting, when senators are free to approach the clerks and quietly switch sides. Several Democrats, realizing that the import quotas were going down to defeat, changed their vote to support the White House, where the expectation on Monday night had been that the vote would be extremely close.
"Two weeks ago," one senior Administration official said, "we thought this bill might pass with a veto-proof majority."
The vote clearly left a residue of anger, though, within Democratic ranks. Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota said: "The White House is saying that the steel crisis is over, and so they pulled all the stops to defeat this bill. Well, last weekend I was on the Iron Range in northeastern Minnesota. I talked to some of the workers who just got laid off at Evtac Mining in Eveleth, Minn., and to some of the workers who are going to be laid off at the end of this month. For them, the steel crisis is not over. For their husbands and wives and children, the steel crisis is not over."
If overall unemployment were on the rise, such arguments would probably carry far more weight. But the remarkable economic expansion of the last few years apparently led a number of senators to buy the argument that the retaliation by other nations would be far more costly to other American workers.
"This bill will kill jobs," Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican, said. "Since we are the greatest beneficiary of international trade, we will lose more than anyone else."
President Clinton, in a statement released by the White House, acknowledged that "the surge in steel imports has created a significant hardship for many steelworkers and communities."
"But quota legislation was the wrong approach and would have weakened our economy and undermined our ability to tear down unfair trade barriers in foreign countries," the statement read.
In the next few weeks the Senate seems likely to take up an alternative to the quota bill that would strengthen American anti-dumping laws, giving the Commerce Department more weaponry to fight imports that are priced below manufacturing costs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: ;UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; QUOTAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); IMPORT CONTROLS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TRENDS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LOTT, TRENT (SEN); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); TRENT LOTT (78%); AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



492 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Evidence of Mass Graves Is Mounting in Kosovo
Serbian forces dug up the bodies of about 100 Kosovo Albanians from a mass grave Djakovica late last month and carried them off, the municipal official in charge of burials said. The disclosure came as investigators, journalists and human rights workers were finding growing evidence of graves and widespread destruction throughout Kosovo. A12
 
NATO's senior commander, Gen. Wesley K. Clark, said the allies should speed up the deployment of their troops to Kosovo, and he suggested that more than 50,000 peacekeepers might be needed. A12 

President Clinton visited a refugee camp in Macedonia and met with President Kiro Gligorov. A13
 
The Yugoslav Parliament is expected to lift the state of wartime emergency, but it will retain restrictions to deal with expected demonstrations by opposition parties. A13
 
Russia Lags on Computer Bug
Russia is starting a campaign to eliminate the risk posed by the year 2000 bug, acknowledging that a fifth of Russian computers could be subject to malfunction in January. A1
 
Nuclear Oversight Debated
The Senate and the Administration moved closer to a restructuring of the Energy Department, but the Energy Secretary continued to resist a proposal to create a new agency to oversee weapons programs. A4
 
Senate Approves U.N. Payment
The Senate approved a bill authorizing payment of more than $800 million in back dues to the United Nations, but cut future contributions. A4
 
U.S. to Oppose Loan to China
Treasury Secretary-designate Lawrence H. Summers said the United States would vote against a World Bank loan to resettle Chinese farmers on land claimed by Tibetans. A3
 
Koreas Meet in Beijing
North and South Korean officials met to discuss reuniting divided families, but ended up arguing over recent naval skirmishing. A3
 
Economic Measures in Chile
President Eduardo Frei overhauled his Cabinet and announced a stimulus package in response to rising unemployment and increasingly tense relations with the military. A5
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A14-17
 
Justices Narrow Scope Of What Is a Disability
The Supreme Court ruled, 7 to 2, that people with physical impairments who can function normally when they wear their glasses or take their medicine cannot generally be considered disabled and so do not come under the protections against employment discrimination offered by the Americans With Disabilities Act. A1
 
Isolating people with disabilities in big state institutions when there is no medical reason is a form of discrimination that violates Federal disabilities law, the Court ruled, 6 to 3. A16
 
The Justices ruled, 5 to 4, that when a company has made "good-faith efforts" to comply with the civil rights law, it cannot be required to pay punitive damages for the discriminatory actions of managers who violate company policy. A16
 
Governor's Conviction Voided
A Federal appeals court overturned the bank fraud convictions of former Gov. Fife Symington of Arizona, saying the trial judge wrongfully dismissed a juror who disagreed with the others over his guilt. Prosecutors said they were considering their options but would not drop the case. A14
 
Orrin Hatch Joining the Race
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a conservative Republican from Utah who has moved toward the center on health and children's issues, will seek his party's Presidential nomination. A17
 
Washington G.O.P. Greets Bush
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas was warmly embraced by the Republican establishment in Washington as he pressed his campaign for the Presidential nomination. A17
 
Governor Explains Wife's Lie
Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida said his wife had told a Customs agent she bought only $500 in goods on a trip to Paris because she did not want her husband to learn she had spent $19,000 on clothes and jewelry. A14
 
Conductor to Change Batons
Seiji Ozawa, who has been the music director of the Boston Symphony Orchestra since 1973, will leave after the 2002 season to take a similar post at the Vienna State Opera. A1
 
Tooth Decay Linked to Lead
Children exposed to higher levels of lead have more problems with tooth decay, according to a study that suggests lead could account for up to 11 percent of pediatric cavities. A15
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Indictments Allege Scheme On Maintenance Kickbacks
The Manhattan District Attorney announced the indictment of 30 people involved in building management on charges relating to what prosecutors said was a bid-rigging scheme that drove up maintenance costs for co-op and condominium owners. A1
 
A Gift for Salinger
The software entrepreneur Peter Norton, left, paid $156,500 for 14 letters written by J. D. Salinger to Joyce Maynard, and said he intended to give them back to Mr. Salinger. B1
 
No Party at the Navy Yard
The city has rejected a request from Tina Brown to hold a party to celebrate the debut of Talk magazine at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. There was talk that the magazine cover would feature Hillary Rodham Clinton, and that, a mayoral aide said, would make the event seem political. He also cited logistical concerns. B1
 
Lender to Change Practices
The State Attorney General's office said Delta Funding, the biggest home-equity loan company in New York, would end practices that violated the civil rights of thousands of minority residents in Brooklyn and Queens by enticing them into loans they could not afford. B1
 
 
OBITUARIES C27
 
EDUCATION B11
 
Education Financing Bill
Proposed Republican legislation would let a state opt out of the Federal financing system, which allocates money for specific purposes, and instead use most of the money as it wished, provided it signed a five-year contract to meet certain performance goals. B11
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Big Change at Talent Agency
International Creative Management plans to replace Sam Cohn, long the premier film agent in New York. E1
 
$20 Million in Art to Harvard
A Massachusetts couple gave the Fogg Art Museum a trove of 17th-century Dutch drawings estimated to be worth $20 million. E3
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-25
 
Limits on Steel Fail in Senate
The Senate killed a bill that would have sharply restricted imports of steel, a blow to unions and steelmakers and a victory for President Clinton, who had said the legislation would revive protectionism. A1
 
U.S. Pursuing Broker
Federal authorities have issued an arrest warrant for Martin R. Frankel, saying he fled his Greenwich, Conn., home with at least $334 million in life insurance premiums siphoned through his Liberty National Securities brokerage firm. C1
 
New Airline Partnerships
Delta Air Lines and Air France announced alliances, as did American Airlines, Swissair and Sabena World Airlines of Belgium. C1
 
On-Line Magazine Goes Public
Salon.com went public with a whimper, closing at $10 a share, as investors continued to weigh not only the value of Internet issues themselves but also that of the institutions leading them to market. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
On Any Given Day . . .
The top-tanked Martina Hingis, lost at Wimbledon, 6-2, 6-0, to the 129th-ranked Jelena Dokic. D1
 
DINING F1-14
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: A deal to demilitarize the K.L.A.; budget finale in Albany; loan for a land grab; protectionism and American steel.
Columns: Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E4
 
TV Listings E10
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CHINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TIBET (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CHINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TIBET (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); DISABLED PERSONS (85%); LITIGATION (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); DISABILITY DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POLITICS (75%); APPROVALS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); REFUGEES (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (69%); DAMAGES (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (66%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (66%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (65%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (64%); FOREIGN LENDING (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); DISABLED ACCESS (61%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (60%); GOVERNORS (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



493 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Salinger Letters Are Sold And May Return to Sender

BYLINE: By DINITIA SMITH 

 BODY:
The saga of the hermitic author, the confessional writer, the love letters and the auction block came full circle yesterday and ended, at least in theory, happily for everyone.
Fourteen letters written 27 years ago by J. D. Salinger to Joyce Maynard, a young writer and star-struck admirer, were sold at Sotheby's for $156,500 to the software entrepreneur and art collector Peter Norton. Mr. Norton then announced that he was going to return them to Mr. Salinger. 
 The sale would seem to wrap up a story that has fascinated the literary world with a Shakespearean denouement. Mr. Salinger, a world-famous recluse who has sued in the past to keep his words private, presumably will be content to have the letters back. Ms. Maynard, who said she needed to sell them to raise tuition for her children, now has enough for four years at an Eastern Ivy League college, before taxes.
And Mr. Norton, a philanthropist, is pleased to be of service.
"A lot of people I admire," he said in a telephone interview, "share the opinion that if the letters have to be sold they should fall into sympathetic hands."
"My intention is to do whatever he Mr. Salinger indicates to me he wants done with them," he continued. "He may want them returned. He may want me to destroy them. He may not care at all."
Mr. Norton, who sold his software business to Symantec in 1990 and collects contemporary art and runs his foundation from Santa Monica, Calif., said he does not know the 80-year-old author of "The Catcher in the Rye" and other works and has not been in touch with him. But he indicated that he respected Mr. Salinger's desire for privacy.
Since Mr. Salinger last published in 1965, he has vigorously guarded his seclusion, and he has not been heard from during what in gentler times would have been called a literary scandal. Ms. Maynard, who published a memoir last year that included an account of her nine-month romance with Mr. Salinger, has been roundly taken to task for her decision to sell the letters.
Some accused her of violating Mr. Salinger's privacy and trading on his name. The National Review termed her an "opportunistic onetime nymphet."
But Mr. Norton defended her decision to sell the letters. "This woman also had a right, really a duty to herself and her children to safeguard her economic security," he said.
Ms. Maynard, 45, is the divorced mother of three children.
Mr. Norton said the sale was fraught with "moral ambiguity."
"I thought, 'Gee, it's a shame this is happening,' " he said. "I had the means to be a contender."
He did not attend the auction but said he placed an "order bid" with Sotheby's beforehand, setting an upper limit to the amount he would pay. Presale estimates for the letters ran between $60,000 and $80,000. The final price includes a commission to Sotheby's, so Ms. Maynard will receive about $140,000.
The auction, which was held at Sotheby's New York headquarters on York Avenue at 72d Street, had an air of anticlimax, with the room only half filled. Marsha Malinowski, a vice president in the department of books and manuscripts and the expert in charge of the sale, said there were at least four bidders for the letters, including Mr. Norton. The opening bid was $50,000. Bruce Gimelson, a book dealer who was the underbidder, was present in the room, bidding on behalf of a private collector. Mr. Gimelson stopped bidding at $130,000.
Mr. Norton, 55, made his fortune as the inventor of a set of computer programs called the Norton Utilities. One of them, UnErase, can recover deleted computer files. In 1995, he was the underwriter for an exhibit at the Whitney Museum, "Black Male: Representation of Masculinity in Contemporary American Art."
The sale represented an ending of sorts to a story that began in 1972, when Ms. Maynard, then a student at Yale, wrote an article, "An 18-Year-Old Looks Back on Her Life," in The New York Times Magazine, published with a photograph of its doe-eyed author. Mr. Salinger, then 53, wrote the 18-year-old a fan letter, "in strictest privacy, if you can bear it," offering her fatherly advice and warning her not to let herself be exploited for her talent.
The letters continued with Mr. Salinger offering seductive praise for her writing abilities and saying they were soul mates. He told her how much he craved isolation from the world and expressed disillusionment with his relatives and the publishing industry.
Eventually, the tone became one of a lover. Ms. Maynard left Yale and moved into his home in Cornish, N.H. But the relationship was troubled. After less than a year, Mr. Salinger broke it up. On Aug. 17, 1973, he wrote Ms. Maynard one last, distant letter.
For 25 years, Ms. Maynard kept silent about their connection, until her memoir, "At Home in the World," (Picador USA). She said that one reason she wrote the book was to put the past to rest. She also said, in a statement written on the eve of the auction, that she was motivated to make public the couple's intimacy by her discovery that Mr. Salinger had carried on similar correspondences with other young women.
Ms. Maynard had originally planned to attend the auction, but at the last minute changed her mind when she realized that much of the attention would be focused on her. "This will sound naive," she said in a telephone interview the day before the auction, "but it didn't occur to me that anyone would watch me." She said she had hoped that people "would look at the letters themselves, instead of focusing the attention on my violation."
She said she felt little emotion about finally parting with Mr. Salinger's letters. "I don't shed a tear. The sale of the letters really was a business decision," she said. "I'm really finished with it. I feel a burden lifting for me."
Because of copyright restrictions, the letters were only on view at Sotheby's from July 17 to July 21 in a private room under guard. They could be seen only by people judged by Sotheby's to be prospective buyers.
Mr. Salinger had turned to legal action in the past to prevent letters or significant portions of them from being published. Under copyright law, letters are the property of the owner, but the content belongs to the writer. In 1987, Mr. Salinger successfully stopped the author Ian Hamilton from quoting from his copyrighted letters in a biography of him.
A man who answered the telephone at the office of Phyllis Westberg, Mr. Salinger's agent, said that neither she nor the author would have any comment about the sale.
Earlier, a letter written by John Adams three days before the signing of the Declaration of Independence sold for a record price of $635,000. In the letter, Adams warned that freedom from England would be won "at great expense of blood."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fourteen letters written by J. D. Salinger to Joyce Maynard in 1972-73 were sold to a philanthropist yesterday for $156,500 at Sotheby's. (Sotheby's New York)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SYMC (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S SYMANTEC CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; AUCTIONS WRITERS (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); LITERATURE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); ART COLLECTING (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); LITIGATION (69%); TUITION FEES (68%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (53%); 

PERSON: SMITH, DINITIA; SALINGER, J D; MAYNARD, JOYCE; NORTON, PETER JEROME DAVID 'J D' SALINGER (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999



494 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: 32 Receive Grants From MacArthur Foundation

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

 BODY:
The annual grants popularly known as the genius awards announced yesterday by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation were heavily weighted toward the New York area, home to about a third of the 32 recipients.
"There is a clump there this year because we just couldn't pass them up," said Daniel J. Socolow, director of the MacArthur Fellows program. 
 The New York City area recipients included a community organizer, a couple who are both architects, a reporter, a history professor, a computer scientist and several artists.
The grants, awarded this year to 17 men and 15 women, ranged from $235,000 to $375,000, depending on the age of the recipient. The youngest recipient was 28 and the oldest was 66. Since 1981, when the program started, 563 Fellows have been named.
Rather than genius awards, the foundation prefers to think of them as grants to experts who are particularly gifted in their fields. The recipients are selected anonymously -- there is no application -- and given the money over five years to pursue whatever interests they desire. Recipients do not have to produce anything for the foundation, and they get free health insurance.
The winners were these:
 
 Jillian F. Banfield, 39, Madison, Wis., an associate professor of geology and geophysics at the University of Wisconsin, has contributed fundamental insights into the physical and chemical forces that shape the earth's surface, $290,000.
Carolyn R. Bertozzi, 32, Albany, Calif., an assistant professor of chemistry at the University of California at Berkeley, has made important contributions to understanding how cells interact, $255,000
Bruce G. Blair, 51, Washington, a foreign policy analyst at the Brookings Institution, is a leader seeking to reduce the risks of nuclear engagement in a rapidly changing geopolitical environment, $350,000.
John Bonifaz, 33, Boston, a public interest lawyer and executive director of the National Voting Rights Institute, uses innovative litigation to re-examine campaign finance reform arguments typically debated on First Amendment grounds, $260,000.
Shawn Carlson, 39, San Diego, a physicist, educator and the founder and director of the Society for Amateur Scientists, has worked to make the scientific process less mystifying and more comprehensible to non-scientists, $290,000.
Mark Danner, 40, New York and Berkeley, Calif., a staff writer at The New Yorker and former story editor at The New York Times Magazine, specializing in foreign affairs, offers a new perspective on the state of human rights and the role of the United States in the international community, $295,000.
Alison L. Des Forges, 57, Buffalo, a writer, researcher, and human rights advocate, has documented and brought to light the causes of genocide, $375,000
Elizabeth Diller, 45, and Ricardo Scofidio, 64, New York, have created an alternative form of architectural practice that unites design, performance and electronic media with cultural and architectural theory and criticism, $375,000.
Saul Friedlander, 66, Los Angeles, a professor of history at the University of California at Los Angeles and a scholar of the Third Reich and the Holocaust, has transformed our understanding of this period by weaving into a coherent whole the perspectives of the participants: ordinary Germans, party activists, military and political figures, victims and survivors, $375,000.
Jennifer L. Gordon, 33, Brooklyn, a lawyer and community organizer who founded the Workplace Project in 1992 as a worker's center to fight employment abuse and discrimination against immigrant workers, $260,000.
David M. Hillis, 40, Austin, Tex., a molecular biologist and professor of zoology at the University of Texas, has developed new molecular genetic analyses that contribute to our understanding of the history of life on earth, $295,000.
Sara Horowitz, 36, New York, a lawyer and executive director of Working Today, has helped promote the interests of people engaged in flexible employment arrangements, $275,000.
Jacqueline Jones, 51, Wellesley, Mass., a professor of American civilization at Brandeis University and a social historian whose scholarship examines the experience of workers through the lens of economic transformations throughout United States history, $350,000.
Laura L. Kiessling, 38, Madison, Wis., an associate professor of biochemistry at the University of Wisconsin, has developed innovative organic syntheses that expand our capacity to understand and control the biology of inflammation, $285,000.
Leslie V. Kurke, 39, Berkeley, Calif., an associate professor of classics and comparative literature at the University of California, has been at the forefront of cultural poetics, the study of the classics that combines the study of literary sources with other fields, $290,000.
David Levering Lewis, 63, New York, a professor of history at Rutgers University, biographer, cultural historian and scholar of race relations, $375,000.
Juan Martin Maldacena, 30, Cambridge, Mass., an associate professor of physics at Harvard University who works in the highly abstract field of string theory, which focuses on the possibility of matter that cannot yet be detected, $245,000.
Gay J. McDougall, 51, Washington, executive director of the International Human Rights Law Group, has crafted human rights legislation for emerging democracies and has helped lead the struggle for human rights in southern Africa, $350,000.
Campbell McGrath, 37, Miami Beach, an associate professor of creative writing at Florida International University and a poet whose work is characterized by lyrical skill, intellectual breadth, humor and blending of high and low subject matter, $280,000.
Dennis Albert Moore, 54, Belem-Para, Brazil, a Michigan native, has helped preserve the language and culture of endangered indigenous groups in Brazil, $365,000.
Elizabeth Murray, 58, New York, a professor at Bard College and a painter known for large, three-dimensional canvases, $375,000.
Pepon Osorio, 44, New York, an installation artist whose work combines Hispanic popular culture and traditional aesthetic sensibilities to explore community dynamics, $315,000.
Peter Shor, 39, Florham Park, N.J., a computer scientist at AT&T Research Labs whose discoveries are increasing the speed of some calculations, $290,000.
Eva Silverstein, 28, Stanford, Calif., a theoretical physicist, questions fundamental assumptions of physics theory, $235,000.
Wilma Alpha Subra, 55, New Iberia, La., a chemist and an environmentalist, helps ordinary citizens in Louisiana understand, cope with, and combat toxic chemicals, $370,000.
Ken Vandermark, 34, Chicago, a composer, improviser, and tenor saxophone and clarinet player, is gaining recognition, as one of America's most promising young musicians, $265,000.
Naomi Wallace, 38, Prospect, Ky., a playwright, employs poetic and highly original language and a strong sociopolitical sensibility in her works, $285,000.
Jeffrey R. Weeks, 42, Canton, N.Y., a mathematician and educator who has analyzed knots and interprets the shape of the universe, $305,000.
Fred Wilson, 44, New York, an installation artist, explores the relationship between museums and works of art, $315,000.
Xu Bing, 44, New York, an artist, uses ancient Chinese methods of print making and calligraphy to explore new dimensions for contemporary Chinese art, $315,000.
Ofelia Zepeda, 44, Tucson, Ariz., a professor of linguistics at the University of Arizona who is devoted to preserving Native American languages and revitalizing tribal communities, $320,000. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (69%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MACARTHUR, JOHN D AND CATHERINE T, FOUNDATION NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (51%); JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (93%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACARTHUR, JOHN D AND CATHERINE T, FOUNDATION JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (93%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (69%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS FOUNDATIONS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); WRITERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (85%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CHEMISTRY (75%); PHYSICS (75%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (75%); HISTORY (75%); LITIGATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%); GENOCIDE (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); 

PERSON: MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; BANFIELD, JILLIAN F; BERTOZZI, CAROLYN R; BLAIR, BRUCE G: BONIFAZ, JOHN; CARLSON, SHAWN; DANNER, MARK; DES FORGES, ALISON L; DILLER, ELIZABETH; FRIEDLANDER, SAUL; GORDON, JENNIFER L; HILLIS, DAVID M; HOROWITZ, SARA; JONES, JACQUELINE; KIESSLING, LAURA L; KURKE, LESLIE V; LEWIS, DAVID LEVERING; MALDACENA, JUAN MARTIN; MCDOUGALL, GAY J; MCGRATH, CAMPBELL; MOORE, DENNIS ALBERT; MURRAY, ELIZABETH; OSORIO, PEPON; SHOR, PETER; SILVERSTEIN, EVA; SUBRA, WILMA ALPHA; VANDERMARK, KEN; WALLACE, NAOMI; WEEKS, JEFFREY R; WILSON, FRED; XU BING; ZEPEDA, OFELIA DENNIS MOORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



495 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: Plotting Corporate Futures;
Biotechnology Examines What Could Go Wrong

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS

 BODY:
Whether he is writing books, lecturing at universities or lobbying regulators and politicians, Jeremy Rifkin never misses a chance to argue that the biotechnology industry is leading the world toward environmental and social disaster. If he thinks it will help slow the industry down, he is quick to file lawsuits and promote boycotts or moratoriums.
But last week, the activist who was once described by critics as the "abominable no-man" took on another role. Intrigued by an invitation to an industry meeting at one of biotechnology's inner sanctums, he happily trekked to the headquarters of the Monsanto Company here to offer up his vision of the future. "I've never been to a meeting like this in the 23 years I've been talking about these issues," he said. 
 It was not Monsanto's idea to seek his input, as the company was quick to tell anyone who asked. The 54-year-old Mr. Rifkin was called in by Ulrich Goluke, a consultant hired by Monsanto and 13 members of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, to help them paint a portrait of the biotechnology landscape of the year 2030 and how it evolved.
The exercise, known as story building, or more formally as scenario creation, is a specialized form of crystal-ball gazing that big corporations in the United States and abroad are increasingly turning to as an early warning system for how their strategies could go astray.
"Every child knows you get the really big issues across with stories," Mr. Goluke said.
In contrast to more common corporate planning tools like forecasting, story building typically results in two to four contrasting visions of the future. Each turns on assumptions about public reactions to political surprises, industrial accidents or social disruptions that never show up in today's spreadsheets and five-year business plans. Outside participants like Mr. Rifkin, who was reimbursed for his expenses but received no compensation, are known as provocateurs by those designing the projects.
"Our aim is to think the unthinkable and speak the unspeakable, not to say what we think will or should happen," said Patricia Solaro, a public affairs executive from Hoechst A.G. of Germany who attended the four-day meeting. Scenario creation was originally developed for the Federal Government in the 1950's at the Rand Corporation to study how nuclear wars might start. It was popularized as a business tool by Shell Oil in the 1970's. Shell's planners, armed with descriptions of how consumers and countries might react to oil shortages, for example, were better equipped than many of their competitors to deal with the shock of the oil crisis of 1973 and its aftermath.
Biotechnology companies see plenty of reason to worry about unpredictable setbacks these days. While genetically engineered crops like soybeans and corn and a number of drugs have been commercial hits, critics are stepping up their efforts to portray the advances as fraught with threats to human health and the environment.
Just last month, they seized on a report suggesting that the monarch butterfly caterpillars and some beneficial insects might be much more vulnerable to a natural pesticide produced by genetically engineered corn than the industry had acknowledged.
And food scares in Europe over "mad cow's disease," dioxin and Coke, though unrelated to biotechnology, have fanned consumer worries about food purity and given a boost to the organic-food movement.
The result has been a crisis of confidence in the industry. The companies still believe in the promise of the technology but now wonder whether they will be able to convince regulators and the public that the benefits outweigh the risks.
The meeting here was a follow-up to a session in April at Hoechst's headquarters in Frankfurt. Participants included not just biotechnology giants like Monsanto, DuPont and Novartis, but also newcomers like International Paper and Norsk Hydro, as well as Zurich Financial Group and Swiss Re from the insurance sector and the consumer products heavyweights Procter & Gamble and Unilever.
The scenarios being developed will not be finished before the end of this summer. The job of polishing them into compelling narratives of about two pages has been handed to Betty S. Flowers, a University of Texas poetry and literature professor.
Mrs. Flowers, who studied with the late Joseph Campbell, the noted authority on myths and stories, is highly sought after in scenario circles for her ability to shape the jargon of engineers and executives into crisp, easy-to-recall narratives that highlight turning points in each vision.
The companies meeting here turned down a reporter's request to sit in on the discussions, but Mr. Goluke, Mrs. Flowers and several other participants shared some of their impressions afterward. Three basic stories are being developed, they said.
In the first, none of the critics' warnings about health and environmental hazards prove warranted and biotechnology products gain widespread acceptance. It is not a happily-ever-after story for the companies, though, because success brings wide-ranging consequences and challenges.
This scenario may include examples of the social and political impact of large numbers of people living past the age of 100, such as pressures to divert public spending and product development to the needs of the elderly. Some biotechnology products in the story might become unprofitable because they become so widespread that they turn into low-margin commodities.
A second scenario is likely to reflect chaos theory, which holds that complex systems can be changed radically by tiny disruptions that have dramatic ripple effects. This story might turn on an event such as publication of a small research report attributing an environmental setback to genetically engineered crops. This in turn could kick off a string of public reactions leading to drastic regulations that stifle many biotechnology applications. A Presidential candidate who is courting environmentalists could be cast as the leader of the anti-biotech charge.
One plot twist to this story proposed in last week's conference was to make the perceived threat to the environment the result of faulty research. The lesson for the industry: the same science that serves you so well can trip you up in the hands of critics.
In the third story, which might be summarized as "thanks but no thanks," consumers and financial markets decide that most biotechnology applications simply are not as appealing as the alternatives. Insurers balk at liability risks and investors flee the industry's meager returns. Agricultural biotechnology markets shrink as farmers and consumers embrace organic food. Biotechnology becomes a tool to improve breeding techniques rather than to move genes among different species.
At the same time, health care companies conclude there is limited profit in engineering new drugs and in harvesting organs for transplants in humans from genetically engineered animals. Instead, they use their expertise to analyze people's vulnerability to certain diseases and then reap profits from advising people how to avoid getting sick.
The practical value of creating such stories is hard to prove. Skeptics say it is so speculative as to be almost meaningless. Some say scenarios are most useful if they focus on near-in challenges, such as what happens if a big contract goes to a competitor.
"It's rare that they become a core part of the internal decision-making process, which tends to end up looking at things like return on investment," said Kevin Coyne, a consultant at McKinsey & Company.
But proponents argue that unlike forecasts well-designed stories of the future can alert business and political leaders to warning signs they might otherwise miss.
"If you are working on things that take 10 to 15 years to develop, you want to think about what the public policy environment will be when those investments are supposed to pay off," said Thomas Jorling, a senior policy executive at the International Paper Company who attended the Monsanto talks.
The World Business Council, the Geneva-based coalition of 125 multinationals that organized the Monsanto conference, is a major forum for corporate story-building. It currently has other scenario groups looking at energy and electronics. The General Motors Corporation is leading 25 companies in a council project focused on sustainable growth in the United States.
Other consulting firms are marketing similar projects. Global Business Network, a scenario specialist based in Emeryville, Calif., and the accounting firm of Ernst & Young are currently recruiting participants for a biotechnology scenario project looking out just 10 years. Monsanto, Eli Lilly & Company and Cargill Inc. are among the early sponsors, according to Peter Schwartz, the chairman of Global Business.
Northeast Consulting in Boston specializes in scenario work for information-technology companies. Cambridge Energy Research Associates in Cambridge, Mass., is known for energy and political scenarios, like its look at Russia in 2010. The Institute for the Future, based in Menlo Park, Calif., pioneered such work for nonprofits.
Mr. Rifkin said he found the process fascinating but was unsure what to make of it.
"I have to say I was really impressed by the ability of the people here to put aside their assumptions," he said. But he did not expect it to signal the end of his battles with the industry or bury their mutual scorn.
As he headed off to Washington, where he is president of the Foundation on Economic Trends, Mr. Rifkin predicted that the "thanks but no thanks" story of biotechnology's decline was closest to the mark and that most of the biotechnology giants in the group that met here would fail to adapt in time to avoid being pushed aside by nimble upstarts.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeremy Rifkin, a critic of biotechnology, attended a story-building conference at Monsanto headquarters. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Contemplating the Year 2030 Problem"
The Biotechnology industry has developed insect-resistant crops and blockbuster drugs. But critics are raising concerns about threats to health and the environment, prompting the industry to think hard about where it is heading. Lately, corportions have borrowed an apporach used by the Federal Government during the cold war to try to make sense of the future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (51%); RDSA (AMS) (51%); RDS.B (NYSE) (51%); RDS.A (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (84%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO; RAND CORP MONSANTO CO (84%); RAND CORP (62%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (51%); SHELL OIL CO (51%); WORLD BUSINESS COUNCIL FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONSANTO CO; RAND CORP WORLD BUSINESS COUNCIL FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ENVIRONMENT; INDUSTRY PROFILES; ATOMIC WEAPONS; GENETIC ENGINEERING; AGRICULTURE; SOYBEANS; CORN BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (84%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (84%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); BOYCOTTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); BUSINESS PLANS (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (57%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; GOLUKE, ULRICH; RIFKIN, JEREMY JEREMY RIFKIN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



496 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Solutions can becomeproblems for mental illness insurance.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein 

 BODY:
THE White House conference earlier this month on mental illness highlighted the Administration's campaign, led by Tipper Gore, to achieve "parity for all" -- requiring health insurers to provide the same coverage for mental illness that they provide for physical illness. Bills in Congress would do the same.
The call for parity raises two questions. Is coverage of mental health the same as that of physical health? And who should decide? 
 Almost all employer-based policies impose higher co-payments and other stricter limits on coverage of mental illness. Critics often blame bias -- an irrational stigma attached to mental problems -- or ignorance, misjudging the plight of the "worried well" or glibly dismissing the value of "taking cures."
Bias and ignorance are only a small part of the story. A new study by Richard G. Frank of Harvard University and Thomas G. McGuire of Boston University shows that powerful economic forces compel plans to discriminate between physical and mental health. Congress may still want to proceed. But markets will counteract parity in ways that advocates will almost surely not like.
About 30 percent of Americans experience some diagnosable mental disorder in a typical year. Only about 25 percent of them receive treatment. About 4 percent of the population suffers in any year from the most severe problems: schizophrenia, manic depression and major depression. But only between 30 and 55 percent of them receive treatment. Given the yawning need, why don't employers offer parity?
The Frank-McGuire study offers two economic reasons. First, adverse selection. A plan that offers generous coverage of mental health would attracts people with expensive mental health problems. In health care, a few patients always account for a large fraction of expenditures. The disparity is exaggerated for mental health, where 5 percent of such patients may account for 30 percent or more of costs. So a plan whose lavish benefits attract the sickest mentally ill people invites bankruptcy.
One way to diminish adverse selection is for government to impose parity. That way, plans could not easily tailor their benefits to push the chronically mentally ill onto other insurers. But health plans that offer equal physical and mental benefits would butt up against a second insurance problem, moral hazard: changes in behavior that are caused by the presence of insurance.
People with health insurance buy more medical treatments than do the uninsured. But studies of patients in fee-for-service plans show that the impact of insurance on demand for treatment was twice as large for treatment of mental problems as for physical problems, Mr. McGuire said in a recent interview. Part of the reason can be traced to the fact that nonsevere forms of mental illness are hard to diagnose and leave therapists wide discretion over course of treatment. He concludes that some of the insurance-induced demand is for mental health services that patients did not deem very valuable when asked to pay themselves.
Here's a sobering estimate: about 12 percent of the population with no diagnosable mental disorders receive treatment and account for nearly a third of all visits for mental health. If parity drives up mental health costs and premiums, the danger is that more employers will drop coverage and more workers will turn it down because it will have become too expensive.
The Frank-McGuire study, then, decisively concludes that coverage of mental health is different from that of physical health. So should insurance coverage treat the two types of patients differently? Mr. Frank and Mr. McGuire used to think so, at least for patients with nonsevere mental problems.
But they have changed their minds, for a reason advocates will find upsetting. The difference between then and now, they say, is the explosive rise of managed care. Under managed care, contractual niceties, like co-payments, deductibles and lifetime limits lose their importance because every expenditure, regardless of contractual obligations, is subject to second-guessing. So managed care has all the tools it needs to control costs even if Congress requires parity.
"Parity," Mr. Frank said, "is affordable only because managed care exists." But making parity work by driving patients into the scrupulous oversight of managed care is probably not what many of its advocates have in mind.
There are grounds for government to dictate the list of benefits that every private plan offers as one way to dull their ability to tailor benefits to drive away the chronically ill. But the prospect of legislators selling priority of place to medical specialities bearing campaign gifts is hardly inspiring. Perhaps a better idea would to turn the task over to a blue ribbon panel that would hand its recommendations over to legislatures for an up and down vote without amendment. That would put politicians in charge, but mute the craven features of the current system.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION MENTAL ILLNESS (97%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); INSURANCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); DEPRESSION (78%); INSURANCE LAW (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; FRANK, RICHARD G (PROF); MCGUIRE, THOMAS G (PROF) TIPPER GORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



497 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
LateTrading Moderates Early Losses in a Mixed Session

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stocks ended mixed yesterday after late buying lifted the main gauges from their daily lows while long-term interest rates continued to climb.
With Federal Reserve policy makers expected to decide next Wednesday to raise the rate on overnight loans between banks by a quarter- point, investors and traders debated the growing possibility that one such increase might not be enough to head off inflation. 
 "It's a weight on equities," said John Manley, a strategist at Salomon Smith Barney, referring to competition from bonds for investors' cash. "We actually think there may be three increases before it's all over."
Financial stocks bore much of the brunt of the uncertainty over rates in a week with little other economic news and with companies not scheduled to report second-quarter profits until next month.
J. P. Morgan, down 4 3/8, to 130 5/8, and American Express, down 2 1/8, to 122 5/8, were the two biggest factors in the 54.77-point loss in the Dow Jones industrial average, which finished at 10,666.86, down five-tenths of a percent. At midday, the Dow's slump was nearly 105 points. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.82, or two-tenths of a percent, to 1,333.06.
On the other hand, the Nasdaq composite index pushed into positive ground, with a gain of 17.86, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 2,598.12.
This reflected strength in high-technology issues, which have regained favor despite the run-up in interest rates. Cisco Systems climbed 2 3/8, to 61 7/8. Altera rose 4 5/8, to 40 5/16 after an analyst raised the semiconductor company's target price. Beyond.com jumped 7 1/4, to 32 7/8, on speculation that it would be bought by Amazon.com.
3Com warned of lower revenue in coming quarters and slumped 4 3/8, to 27 1/8, apparently benefiting the shares of Cisco, its larger rival.
With little else beside the uncertainty over the Fed's action and corporate profit warnings to focus on, analysts said it was not surprising that the markets tended to be defensive.
"The chances of an upside surprise are low relative to the chances of a bigger correction," said Al Kugel, senior investment strategist at Stein Roe & Farnham in Chicago.
Another company warning of a weaker performance was Crown Cork and Seal, which cited sluggish European economies in lowering expectations for the second time in nine months. The stock skidded 3 1/2, to 28 15/16. Goldman Sachs reported earnings that far surpassed expectations, but the stock fell 3, to 65, in a mixed brokerage group.
Oil stocks advanced with crude prices after inventories fell unexpectedly. Chevron, recommended by Banc of America Securities, climbed 2 1/2, to 92 5/8, while Mobil and Exxon gained 1 1/2 and 1 1/8, respectively. Drug issues were mostly lower.
Vulcan Materials, one of three stocks to be added to the S.& P. 500, jumped 4 1/4, to 46 15/16. Network Appliance rose 3 1/2, to 48 5/16, and Best Buy was up 2 9/16, to 63 5/16.
On the New York Stock Exchange volume grew to a still-moderate 731.8 million shares, with declining issues surpassing advancing ones 1,760 to 1,259. New lows outnumbered new 52-week highs by 67 to 50.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
 By Reuters
 Interpreting Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is usually a daunting task, and the bond market is re-evaluating its initial reading of Mr. Greenspan's Congressional testimony last week, when his message seemed crystal clear: a "modest" interest rate increase was in store.
The market's initial euphoria over Mr. Greenspan's testimony has turned to despair. In a matter of days, expectations of a small rise in rates have been replaced by forecasts of aggressive Fed tightening.
Consequently, the Treasuries market has fallen back. The price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 1 2/32 yesterday, to 87 29/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.14 percent, from 6.06 percent on Tuesday.
Corporate issuers have been plentiful, though the Ford Motor Credit Corporation's planned offering was postponed until July because of market conditions.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price . . . 99.993
High Yield . . . 5.754%
Low Yield . . . 5.650%
Median Yield . . . 5.725%
Accepted at low price . . . 72%
Total applied for . . . $29,693,469
Accepted . . . $18,985,769
Noncompetitive . . . $1,536,067
Interest set at . . . 5. 3/4
 
The 2-year notes mature June 30, 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (66%); GS (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); CCK (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3411 METAL CANS (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); CROWN HOLDINGS INC (51%); STEIN ROE & FARNHAM INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PROFIT WARNINGS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



498 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Avoids Budget Issue In a Speech About Policies

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki went to Detroit yesterday to promote his economic policies as a model for the nation, detailing his record of cutting taxes and reducing the size of government but skirting mention of the standoff back home over the state budget, now nearly three months overdue.
Speaking before the Detroit Economic Club, Mr. Pataki called for reducing Federal income taxes an average of 13 percent over seven years, eliminating the capital gains tax and changing Social Security to allow people to invest some of the money they now contribute. He proposed a Constitutional amendment that would require a two-thirds vote in Congress to raise taxes. 
 He said he favored increasing Federal spending on defense and education, while scaling back the bureaucracy by abolishing the Departments of Commerce and Energy, repealing burdensome regulations and selling some government assets.
He said his proposals would save hundreds of billions of dollars. "But in a broader sense, this plan isn't about numbers," he said. "It's about freedom. It's about people. It's about restoring certain inalienable rights."
The speech before the club, a traditional stop for politicians eager to proclaim the success of their stewardship, marked the latest effort by Mr. Pataki to seize the national spotlight. It comes, though, at an awkward time for him. After flirting for several months with a long-shot bid for the Presidency, Mr. Pataki took himself out of the running last month when he endorsed Gov. George W. Bush of Texas for the Republican nomination.
So at best, the speech was an attempt to help his standing as a potential vice presidential nominee.
Asked about those aspirations before the speech yesterday, Mr. Pataki said, "I don't think that you think about the Vice Presidency or cabinet positions. You have to first get the nomination and win the election. That's where we are going to be focused, doing that for Governor Bush."
In Albany, the state government remains paralyzed by the dispute over the state budget. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, made a pointed reference yesterday to the Governor's trip.
"Wherever he chooses to be, that's his priority and I think the people of the state will eventually respond to each and every one of our priorities," Mr. Silver said.
Aides to Mr. Silver, Mr. Pataki and the leader of the Republican majority in the State Senate, Joseph L. Bruno, continued budget negotiations yesterday, but without substantial progress.
While the sides are relatively close to a compromise, the deadlock remains over Mr. Silver's insistence that Mr. Pataki agree not to veto spending items proposed by Assembly Democrats. The Governor has refused to provide such a promise. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT ECONOMIC CLUB DETROIT ECONOMIC CLUB (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT ECONOMIC CLUB DETROIT ECONOMIC CLUB (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); VETO (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REFERENDUMS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); TRENDS (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); LEVY, CLIFFORD J GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



499 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Little League Skills at $70 an Hour

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: ARLINGTON HEIGHTS, Ill., June 23

 BODY:
Hoisting a bat that looked huge on a 10-year-old, Benjamin Gold stood nervously at the plate under his floppy orange Orioles cap.
His parents watched from lawn chairs behind the backstop. His tutor studied the play from behind the first-base line, pointing a video camera at Benji for a post-game critique. 
 "He's moving around too much in the box -- and dropping his hands," the tutor, Mark Venditti, had noticed during Benji's first at-bat. Between innings, he had talked to the boy about making an adjustment.
Benji took a mighty swing and tapped the ball toward the pitcher's mound, then scampered toward first base. It was good enough for an infield hit. And the runner on third base made it home, so Benji was credited with a crucial run batted in, an R.B.I.
But his success has come at a price.
In another sign that American childhood has become a serious venture, parents like Loren and Debbie Gold are paying $70 an hour, sometimes more, to private coaches to sharpen the skills of their Little League ballplayers.
For the Golds, who harbor no illusions about athletic scholarships or big money in the professional leagues, hiring a tutor seemed a logical way to help a child whose heart was broken into pieces with every strikeout.
"We did it for his self-esteem," said Mrs. Gold, a 43-year-old employee recruiter. "He was getting to the point where he just wanted to quit."
Benji agreed, saying: "It was hard last year. When you strike out, you know, and people say you should be off the team."
Parents find themselves in a spot these days. The increasingly competitive nature of childhood makes parents feel practically obligated to give their children every possible edge in academics and athletics.
And yet, the rigors of self-improvement for children -- preschoolers now go to foreign language camps -- can take an exacting toll.
"The message used to be, 'Be the best you can be," said Cynthia Kowa-Basler, a middle-school counselor in Dixon, Ill. "Now the message is simply, 'Be the best.' "
Ms. Kowa-Basler said one eighth-grade student sat and wept in the counselor's office because he did not believe he could live up to his parents' expectations. The counselor scheduled a meeting with the parents to deliver her professional advice in the bluntest of terms: "Back off."
The Golds, who have two children, share the ambivalence of many other parents. On one hand, they want to encourage Benji and their daughter, Samantha, to take piano lessons, play sports and participate in social activities. But they fear an overload.
Samantha, who is 11, has talked about feeling "stressed out" by all of her activities.
Her mother said, "When an 11-year-old starts talking about being too stressed, it makes you stop and wonder."
Bernard Beck, a sociologist at Northwestern University, said child rearing had taken a more management-style approach, especially among parents who were well-educated and successful. In some ways, Mr. Beck said, children have come to be seen a bit like growth stocks.
"In an earlier generation, parents were younger, going at life without much of a plan, a little courageous and a little foolhardy, a kind of what-the-heck attitude," Mr. Beck said. "But many of today's parents are more serious. They put off having children for a career. And having had success in their careers, they use the same goal-oriented principles when it comes to raising their kids. They study what's needed for success. They look at the competition. It's all a very rational, very market-oriented approach."
In his novel "Wobegon Boy," Garrison Keillor suggested that parents of an earlier time seemed to have better things to do than obsess about their children.
"They did not read books about parenting, and when they gathered with other adults, at Lutheran church suppers or family get-togethers, they didn't talk about schools or about the prevailing theories of child development," he wrote. "They did not weave their lives around yours. They had their own lives, which were mysterious to you."
In part, parents have become more intimately involved in the activities of their children because they now must act as chauffeurs, carting their children from piano lesson to tennis court to soccer match, driving minivans to the league games that have replaced the unchaperoned pickup games of the old neighborhoods.
Today's crop of parents can scarcely take sole blame for the image of the overzealous Little League parent. Accounts of bothersome parents ranting from the bleachers go back to the days before the 60-year-old Little League.
But today's frenetic competition among children, and among the parents of children, has turned up the pressure to win. It is perhaps not surprising then, in a service economy where almost anything can be taught and anyone trained, that Junior's batting flaws are something to be repaired by a service that advertises in the Yellow Pages.
When a child goes into a slump, plenty of parents pick up the telephone and call Grand Slam USA, one of the many places around the country that now provides baseball instructors to boys and girls.
"On Monday morning, we get the frantic calls from parents," said Leland Fisher, an owner of Grand Slam, in suburban Palatine. "They'll say, 'It's an emergency -- the boy struck out twice on Saturday -- we need help right away.' "
While the average young ballplayer still relies on pals or a parent, private tutoring has become a familiar part of the social landscape around the country, said Lance Van Auken, a spokesman for Little League Baseball Inc., in Williamsport, Pa.
"There's not any doubt that there's a lot more private instruction out there," said Mr. Van Auken, who noted that a big portion of the students were girls, trying to win college scholarships in softball. "There are no hard numbers, because it's privately done by parents. But you hear a lot of anecdotes."
The demand for instruction has also popularized baseball camp. A handful of such camps a generation ago has grown to a big business, Mr. Van Auken said, with dozens and dozens of camps around the country, especially in the South.
When Michael Hlavacek, 14, practices batting, he takes tips from an instructor who works as a professional scout. The help has paid off. The boy, who just graduated from the eighth grade in the Chicago suburbs, has red-hot batting average of over .500.
His sister, Allison, who is entering her senior year of high school, takes lessons for fast-pitch softball. She has also been an outstanding ballplayer, and hopes to play on a college team.
To their father, Jerry Hlavacek, who pays more than $100 a week for the lessons, the private instruction has helped their talents soar.
"If you want to play the sport at a higher level, this is the only way you're going to get there," said Mr. Hlavacek, a business executive. "How do you think Ken Griffey learned to hit? Somebody taught him, that's how."
Many parents and children say it works better to have a professional as coach, rather than a parent.
"The confrontation that normally happens between a father and son -- it doesn't happen," Mr. Hlavacek said.
His son, Michael, agreed.
"You don't really listen to your dad," he said. "He sometimes yells. And sometimes, he doesn't know what he's talking about."
Hiring a coach also helped domestic relations in the McEnerney home in Mount Prospect, northwest of Chicago.
"My husband didn't want to get into any more arguments with my son," said Maureen McEnerney, whose 14-year-old son, Matthew, and 17-year-old daughter, Christie, take private lessons. "My kids now love the game even more. Plus they get along better with their dad."
Mrs. McEnerney, a hairdresser, and her husband, William, an electrician, get the impression that other people think hiring sports tutors seems excessive.
"But you know, it's like playing a musical instrument," Mrs. McEnerney said. "It's a mechanical thing. It's a matter of studying and learning."
 The day after his latest ball game, Benji went to the ball park to train under the eye of Mr. Venditti, a 26-year-old software salesman who played two seasons with the Zanesville (Ohio) Greys in the independent Frontier League. Mr. Venditti tutors four players on Benji's Orioles team. In all, he works with about 20 players, from age 8 through high school.
"Atta boy, Benji," Mr. Venditti called out, as Benji swatted a line drive. "You're doing great."
Mrs. Gold and her husband, Loren, watched the practice from their lawn chairs, praising their son afterward. "Nice lesson, Benji," they said.
Mr. Gold, a 45-year-old electrical engineer, said he worked long hours and could not spare much time to play with Benji himself.
But even if he had time, Mr. Gold would not be much help. "I was no ballplayer," he said smiling.
Not all fathers bow out like Loren Gold. Around the batting cages of the league are fathers who strut like Babe Ruth, sounding as if they know everything about the game.
Mr. Fisher, the owner of Grand Slam in Palatine, says he cringes at what he sees.
"The kid will be crying, 'I don't want to play, I don't want to play,' and the father is pulling him along," Mr. Fisher said. "Sometimes, the biggest thing the instructor does is simply build up the kid's confidence. After all the criticism from the parent, they need to be told they're all right."
In some cases, Mr. Fisher said, the instructors will turn the tables and give an overbearing father a taste of his own medicine. The instructor will ask the father to step into the cage and try his luck with a bat.
"Then he's liable to see that it's not so easy, after all," Mr. Fisher said.
Or he must face the fact, he added, that the child's lack of skill was just an inherited trait.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Benjamin Gold, 10, practicing his swing with his private coach, Mark Venditti, a former pro baseball player with the Zanesville Greys. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Benjamin Gold, 10, gripping his bat at a recent Little League game, was ready to quit until his parents hired a private coach to improve his game. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: LITTLE LEAGUE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: LITTLE LEAGUE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARLINGTON HEIGHTS (ILL); UNITED STATES (52%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; TUTORS AND TUTORING; LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); YOUTH SPORTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); ATHLETES (74%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (66%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (66%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (64%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; GOLD, LOREN; GOLD, DEBBIE; VENDITTI, MARK; GOLD, BENJAMIN BERNARD BECK (58%); BENJAMIN GOLD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



500 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Rift Threatens Tax Program Aiding Co-ops

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
A dispute between Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Sheldon Silver, the State Assembly Speaker, is jeopardizing a property tax break for owners of co-ops and condominiums, whose tax bills will increase by an average of $580 this year if the matter is not resolved soon.
The tax break, which needs approval from both houses of the State Legislature, was part of the $35.3 billion budget that the City Council adopted earlier this month. But the Mayor, a Republican, took a calculated risk when he sent the property tax bill to Albany for legislative approval: he combined it with another bill that Mr. Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, strongly opposes. 
 The second bill would make it harder to challenge property assessments in New York City. Mr. Giuliani says that the city stands to lose more than $1 billion a year in property tax revenue under a recent change in state law, which gave owners of commercial and large residential buildings a new method of fighting assessments.
But Mr. Silver insists that the Mayor's proposal would make it too difficult for property owners to challenge assessments, which are important because they determine property tax bills. So while the State Senate, whose Republican leaders are close to Mr. Giuliani, passed the combined bills without delay, the Assembly has approved only the tax break.
For the tax break to take effect, the Senate would have to take it up again and vote on it as a separate bill. But Mr. Giuliani has quietly instructed them not to, according to people familiar with the legislation, apparently hoping the public outcry over the delay will force Mr. Silver -- who is already under attack for helping push through the repeal of the city's commuter tax last month -- to give in and pass the assessment bill.
Meanwhile, the owners of about 280,000 condominium and co-op apartments are getting property tax bills this month that do not reflect the tax break, which is actually a continuation of a three-year property tax relief program that expired in June.
Without the abatement, the new bills are up to 25 percent higher than last year, aides to Mr. Giuliani said.
The aides say that if the tax break is not approved in the next few weeks, the city will probably not be able to reflect it in the bills that go out in the fall, either.
"The longer it takes to get the application process rolling, the more it keeps pushing back our ability to execute the program," said Adam L. Barsky, the director of the Mayor's Office of Operations. He added that the city would most likely reflect the abatement in next year's bill, retroactively, if the legislation eventually passes.
But since neither Mr. Giuliani nor Mr. Silver appears willing to compromise, the tax break could be held up indefinitely.
John McArdle, a spokesman for the State Senate, said yesterday that the Senate would not go back and pass the tax break as a separate bill unless Mr. Giuliani and the City Council asked them to.
Aides to Mr. Giuliani, however, said they had no intention of doing so.
For his part, Mr. Silver told reporters in Albany yesterday that he did not want to pass Mr. Giuliani's bill because he was opposed to the provision affecting challenges to assessments. The provision would strip property owners of an important means of fighting unfair assessments, he said.
"We are not interested at this point in two totally separate issues coming together in one bill," Mr. Silver said.
The Legislature approved the tax relief program in 1996 to narrow the gap between the relatively low property taxes on one-, two- and three-family homes, and the generally higher taxes levied on co-ops and condominiums. A recent study by the city's Independent Budget Office found that the abatements produce the biggest savings in Manhattan, where they range from about $340 a year in the East Village to $1,200 in TriBeCa.
The logjam comes only a month after the Legislature infuriated Mr. Giuliani by repealing the commuter tax for New York State residents, which will cost the city at least $210 million a year. The unexpected loss of revenue led Mr. Giuliani and Peter F. Vallone, the City Council Speaker, to abandon a number of tax cuts they had proposed for city residents.
"The Assembly showed no inertia in passing a commuter tax repeal for people who live outside New York City," Joseph J. Lhota, the Deputy Mayor for Operations, said yesterday. "We are baffled by their refusal to pass a bill that will help all property owners who live in the city."
Mr. Lhota said that if the Legislature does not tighten the rules for challenging property tax assessments, the city will have to overhaul its entire system of assessing buildings. The recent change in state law allows owners of large residential or commercial buildings to use the sales prices of comparable properties to challenge their assessment. But the city does not use comparable sales as a factor in assessing those buildings.
If the city started assessing buildings based on comparable sales, the assessments would fluctuate with the city's volatile real estate market, Mr. Lhota said. In a strong economy, assessments -- and property taxes -- could increase sharply, he said.
But Assemblyman Martin A. Luster, a Democrat from Ithaca who heads the committee in charge of property tax policy, said tightening the rules by which people can challenge assessments would not be fair. If Mr. Giuliani really wanted the tax break for co-op and condominium owners, he would not have attached it to the more controversial assessment provision, Mr. Luster said.
All of the finger-pointing has led owners of co-ops and condominiums to throw up their hands in disgust as they prepare to pay their steepest property tax bills in at least three years. Without the tax break, most condominium owners would pay more in monthly mortgage payments, which usually cover property taxes, said Mary Ann Rothman, executive director of the Council of New York Cooperatives. Most owners of co-ops would also end up paying more in monthly maintenance fees, she said.
"We're confident that our lawmakers all believe this is important legislation," Ms. Rothman said. "But they need to agree on this to make it real. We are the victims of their inability to get along."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE LEGISLATURE (68%); STATE ASSEMBLY (64%); STATE SENATE (63%); CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (68%); STATE ASSEMBLY (64%); STATE SENATE (63%); CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION PROPERTY TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CITIES (78%); TAX ASSESSORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



501 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: After Kosovo, Clinton Faces Domestic Issues

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23

 BODY:
With the conflict in Kosovo more or less behind him and impeachment a fading memory, President Clinton is eager to reassert himself in the familiar realms of domestic policy and politics.
White House aides described the President, who returned from a weeklong trip to Europe early this morning, as eager to shed the unaccustomed mantle of wartime commander and to devote his full energies over the next several weeks to what he truly loves: verbally punishing Republicans over domestic policy matters like gun control and health care. 
 After more than a year of war and scandal, Mr. Clinton has had little space lately in which to exercise his powers of public persuasion on domestic issues.
But starting on Friday with an address to a group of Presidential scholars, Mr. Clinton hopes to focus public attention on a long list of pent-up proposals from an increase in the minimum wage to tax credits for poor neighborhoods. As his tenure in office winds down, the President is returning to more traditional Democratic themes that he had until now largely muted in an effort to fashion a third way between the orthodoxies of the dominant parties.
"For the first time in a long time, the decks are clear for resetting the agenda and defining the universe of the possible," said Joel P. Johnson, the newly appointed senior adviser to the President for policy and communications.
Over the next three weeks, Mr. Clinton plans to unveil a Medicare proposal with a popular new prescription drug benefit and to travel the country recycling a number of tax-cut proposals and spending initiatives from his State of the Union Message in January. Presidential aides expressed hope that the Republican-run Congress will enact some of Mr. Clinton's proposals, but they seem perfectly content to use legislative gridlock as a weapon of partisan advantage.
Some of the proposals the President plans to reintroduce, like a big school-construction tax credit, have already been rejected by Congress and there appears little prospect for passage now. But the White House hopes to salvage a compromise gun-control measure from two very different bills passed this month by the House and Senate.
Republicans plan to propose their own Medicare plan with less generous benefits than the President's and also hope to enact a broader set of tax cuts than the President supports.
As Mr. Clinton pushes his own agenda, he will also be trying to advance the political ambitions of his wife and his Vice President, as well as raising millions of dollars to help Democrats regain control of Congress.
The most significant initiatives that the President will push in coming weeks are a plan to try to insure the long-term solvency of Medicare and a series of proposals to bring private sector investment to the nation's poorest regions.
Sandwiched between promotion of those policies will be several fund-raising forays, visits with leaders from South Korea, Egypt and Israel, announcement of the removal of the bald eagle from the list of threatened species and an undetermined number of photo opportunities to attack Republicans for quashing a gun-control bill in the House and for bottling up new regulations governing health maintenance organizations in the Senate. The White House sees those as hanging curve balls that Mr. Clinton intends to swat out of the political park -- repeatedly.
In his State of the Union address , Mr. Clinton proposed setting aside 15 percent of anticipated Federal budget surpluses over the next decade to shore up Medicare, the Government health plan for the elderly and disabled.
But the Administration has delayed release of its plan as it struggles to reconcile competing political and financial interests behind one of the most popular programs of guaranteed benefits to all who qualify.
Mr. Clinton is set to release his plan next Tuesday, meeting his self-imposed deadline of the end of June by one day. Aides were stingy with details, saying the President had not yet approved the final provisions of the plan.
"We want to have a universal, affordable benefit that will ask Medicare beneficiaries to pay a modest premium for benefits that are substantially better," John D. Podesta, the White House chief of staff, said in an interview.
The "modest premium" is a monthly cost that Medicare beneficiaries will be asked to pay for prescription drug coverage, expected to fall somewhere between $20 and $90 a month, with a partial subsidy for the poorest recipients. But Mr. Podesta would not be more specific about the cost of the program or the mechanism for helping the poor afford the new benefit.
The drug benefit seems popular with the elderly and abhorred by the pharmaceutical industry, which sees it as a wedge for Government price controls. It is certain to set off a ferocious fight on Capitol Hill that will almost certainly continue well into the 2000 campaigns for Congress and the White House.
Mr. Clinton, eyeing his legacy, will spend four days in early July touring depressed regions of the country, traveling from eastern Kentucky to the Mississippi Delta to a South Dakota Indian reservation to the Watts neighborhood of Los Angeles. The trip comes late in his second term because Mr. Clinton has not been willing before now to draw attention to the pockets of poverty that belie the nation's general prosperity.
The aim of the President's anti-poverty plan is to inspire private businesses to increase investment in what the President likes to call "untapped markets" within the nation's borders. He has proposed a set of tax initiatives to help companies open businesses in depressed areas and bring the fruits of the economic expansion to the regions it passed by.
A subtext of those visits is the nation's continuing racial friction and the uneven economic performance of minorities in America.
"This is a real reflection of how the President looks at the world," Mr. Podesta said. "He wants to use the mechanism of Government to encourage partnership with the private sector to spread the benefits of the great economy we have."
Mr. Podesta said these programs, modeled on Federal programs to spur private investment in less-developed nations overseas, attract bipartisan support and have a chance to win passage in this Congress.
Mr. Podesta also said that the President intended in coming weeks to press ahead with some promises from the State of the Union and other policy-setting speeches. Among them are a planned lawsuit against tobacco companies to recover billions of dollars in Federal health care costs related to smoking, proposed tax credits for child care and medical costs arising from long-term illnesses and a $5 billion program to finance school construction. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ETHICS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLITICS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ETHICS (77%); GUN CONTROL (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); TAX RELIEF (73%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (53%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRODER, JOHN M BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



502 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS BRIEFING: ASIA;
KOREAN LOANS SOLD

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
A Texas-based investment partnership, Lone Star Fund L.P., bought 1.04 trillion won ($896 million) of South Korean bad loans, in the country's biggest single sale of bad debt to date. Lone Star paid an average 50.6 percent of the loans' face value, a better price than expected. The sale, by the Korea Asset Management Corporation, indicates foreign investors are betting South Korea is recovering from its worst recession since the 1950's. Kamco raised $455 million from the sale, which consisted of 8,100 nonperforming loans from 3,100 borrowers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); ASIA (86%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LONE STAR FUND LP; KOREA ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONE STAR FUND LP; KOREA ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); ASIA (86%); UNITED STATES (73%); TEXAS, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); RECESSION (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



503 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE PROUD: PERSONAL VISIONS;
In a Glass Box, Secrets Are Hard to Keep

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
HOW could a structure as transparent as the Farnsworth House hold a secret?
Yet there it was, on the caption of an old blueprint that had sat untouched in my father's library in Chicago over the decades since his death -- "Bld'g: Dr. E. B. Farnsworth Residence / Location: Plano, Illinois / Architect: Wm. Dunlap." 
 William E. Dunlap? Architect of the iconic Farnsworth House?
What about Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, that towering figure from the Bauhaus whose disciples remade Chicago at mid-century? Wasn't it Mies who designed this sublime archetype of the International Style, this crystalline wafer of space framed by two horizontal planes, stripped of ornament, serenely afloat, its every line apparently dictated by pure reason?
Yes. But he did not account for the mosquitoes. They were left for my father.
Dr. Edith B. Farnsworth, an internist, commissioned Mies to design a weekend retreat 60 miles southwest of Chicago, on the Fox River. As the house neared completion in 1951, they had a bitter falling out.
The secret I had never known -- and this, after 20 years of covering architectural landmarks -- was that as a result of that fight, my father put the final touch on one of the most famous buildings of the 20th century. This was not a story he told me, perhaps because it involved a deception on his part. Rather, I learned of it by finding blueprints of his design for a nine-and-a-half-foot-high, bronze-and-steel screening system, with elegantly pivoting doors, that once enclosed the deck of the house.
Knowing of my father's role, I see the house differently now. In fact, I can almost hear the house, or rather the effervescent voices of my parents visiting the place as a young couple. Around them, I imagine America hitting its stride as the darkness of war and Depression subside: buildings sparkle with a newfound openness and clarity; Mies, who has made Chicago his home, is the leading architect of this transformation, and my parents are luckily, happily, in his orbit.
Despite the austerity of the Farnsworth House, I can now see its "aura of high romance," to borrow the words of Lord Palumbo, a London real estate developer, who bought the house in 1972 and opened it to the public two years ago.
I see something else: No amount of architectural refinement can disguise the building's quirks, its frailties, its very human provenance -- "my Mies-conception," Dr. Farnsworth called it in her unpublished memoirs -- all of which go into making it that much more resonant.
Begin with the fact that its floor slab hovers five feet above ground, held in the air by eight wide-flange steel piers, as if on stilts. The practical point of this extravagant esthetic gesture was to protect the house from flooding.
But though Mies researched previous flood levels, he miscalculated badly. The house has been inundated several times; catastrophically in 1996, when the river reached a height of 4 feet 10 inches inside the house, shattering window walls, scattering artwork and badly damaging the central core, within which are concealed two bathrooms and the mechanical systems.
Another Fox River phenomenon that Mies underestimated was the mosquitoes. Even today, they are fierce enough to be a source of constant complaint in the guest register.
In Mies's design, the only way to circulate air through a house whose walls were made of solid glass was to open two small windows at one end and the front door at the other. Without screens around the deck, this was an invitation to bugs.
One summer was all that Dr. Farnsworth could take.
There was no going to Mies for help, however. In 1951, he sued her, claiming she owed him money. She countersued, claiming she had been overcharged. The house cost more than $70,000, or about $450,000 today, allowing for inflation. While that is a lot of money, something deeper must have accounted for their animosity.
"If it is simplistic to say that Farnsworth wanted the house and Mies, and Mies wanted the house and the next client, such a summation comes as close to the heart of the matter as any other," the architectural historian Franz Schulze wrote in a history and guide to the house.
My parents, in their mid-20's when the house was built, were somewhere in the middle. My father had studied and taught under Mies at the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago. My mother, Beth, was a patient of Dr. Farnsworth's. They socialized with her at parties and jazz clubs. They visited the house in Plano during construction. And as it neared completion, they stayed overnight.
They did not exactly sleep there, however, since they were kept awake all night while Dr. Farnsworth's poodles, in an amorous mood, chased around the central core as if they were on a travertine dog track.
"Isn't that cute?" Dr. Farnsworth said, when my mother told her of the disturbance the next morning. While the two women talked, just before the architectural historian Henry Russell Hitchcock arrived for a visit, my father recorded the scene with his Kodak Vigilant 620 camera.
He caught a moment of weekend-in-the-country informality wonderfully at odds with the house's formalism: my mother is in pajamas, Dr. Farnsworth in slacks; they lounge on the cantilevered front steps, with cups of coffee and poodles nearby.
A few months later, Dr. Farnsworth asked my mother, "Do you think Bill would design the screens?"
My father was then drafting part time at $1 an hour, supported by my mother's income as a fashion illustrator for Women's Wear Daily. Learning of the prospect, he said, "I'm going to call Mies and tell him there's a way to finish the screens without going to someone else."
Unknown to Dr. Farnsworth, my father then shared his drawings with Mies, to be certain they met with the master's approval. At least once, Mies was reviewing blueprints in my parents' apartment just before the client arrived to do the same thing -- requiring some logistical dexterity to prevent a collision between the two warring parties in the alleyway.
The screens were installed in April 1952, three weeks before I was born.
Then the battle between Mies and Dr. Farnsworth played out in court. It appeared that my father's photographs might be called into evidence. Sending the negatives to Mies's office, he wrote, "Beth and I personally have no quarrel with Edith and we'd prefer if possible that you don't use any of the shots with Beth in them."
"Please return when the smoke clears," he added.
The smoke did not clear, however. After Dr. Farnsworth learned that my father had collaborated with Mies, she never spoke to him again. And my father, who joined the firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, did not speak to me or my brother of his work at the Farnsworth House. He was the partner in charge of Sears Tower at the time of his death in 1973, so there were truly bigger things to talk about.
Mies died in 1969 and Dr. Farnsworth in 1977, having sold the house to Lord Palumbo. One of the first things he did was install an unobtrusive air-conditioning system and remove the screens. "While they had a practical value in terms of mosquitoes, they interrupted the flow of space and closed in an area that was intended to be kept open," he explained in a telephone conversation from London.
After the disastrous flood of 1996 and a lesser one in 1997, Lord Palumbo restored the house, working with the architect Dirk Lohan, who is Mies's grandson. The central core was rebuilt, and its blond primavera wood panels were replaced.
It was also in 1997 that I happened to be rooting through papers in the Chicago apartment where my family has lived for 40 years. That was when I found 20 Farnsworth blueprints, some with my father's name, others bearing Mies's architectural stamp. I found tracing-paper sketches, correspondence with the metal fabricator, 60 photos and a handwritten budget: $4,566.75, including $389.25 for the struggling young architect. My mother filled in the story.
I found no trace of my father's work when I visited the Farnsworth House recently for the first time. But I saw abundant evidence that the Palumbos use the place when they are in town. Sculptures come and go. An antique maple rocking chair sits exotically among the svelte Mies furnishings. Wine bottles fill the stainless-steel kitchen counter. A black Trimline telephone rests on the bedside shelf. Family pictures line the bathroom walls. Neckties are draped decorously inside the teak wardrobe. (Pardon the intrusion, milord.)
"It's not an intrusion," he reassured me, "because it shows the human side of the house."
He used to keep house more ascetically, Lord Palumbo said, but that created a problem. "It was becoming a shrine," he said. "It was beginning to take itself too seriously. I thought it needed livening up."
Judging from comments in the guest book, the bric-a-brac is second only to the mosquitoes as a source of annoyance. "It is overcluttered -- I accept that," Lord Palumbo said. "But from a human dimension, if you want to get the flavor -- for better or worse -- of the people who own it, there have to be things around."
As for me, I delight in signs that the place is inhabited, that it is not frozen as a museum but rather breathes with the needs and whims of its owners. After all, Mies designed a monument, but my father first made it possible to live in.
The Farnsworth House is at 14520 River Road in Plano, Ill., about a 90- minute drive from Chicago. Hours: Thursday through Tuesday, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M.; closed on Wednesday. Admission: $15, including a tour of the grounds, which were landscaped by Lanning Roper. There are sculptures by Harry Bertoia, Anthony Caro, Andy Goldsworthy, Ellsworth Kelly, Wendy Taylor and others. Telephone: (630) 552-8622; Web address: www.farnsworthhouse.com. Reservations are advised, as is mosquito repellent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: DEBUGGED -- Sheer screens designed by William Dunlap wrap the deck. Inset, Mies van der Rohe, left, and Mr. Dunlap in Chicago in the 40's. AN ICON TAKES FORM -- Dr. Edith Farnsworth at her glass house during construction in 1950. (George Danforth (inset); William E. Dunlap (oval))(pg. F6); MOSQUITO-FREE DAY -- Dr. Edith Farnsworth, left, at home with Beth Dunlap. (Photographs by William E. Dunlap (1951))(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FARNSWORTH HOUSE (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: FARNSWORTH HOUSE (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; FARNSWORTH HOUSE (PLANO, ILL); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION REAL ESTATE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W; MIES VAN DER ROHE, LUDWIG (1886-1969); DUNLAP, WILLIAM E LUDWIG MIES VAN DER ROHE (95%); EDITH B FARNSWORTH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



504 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE YEN SLIPS. Japan's currency edged lower after the nation's top currency official warned that the central bank might sell more yen to stimulate growth. In New York, the dollar settled at 121.92 yen, up from 121.82 on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since Jan. 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); TRENDS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



505 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Brazil OustsBank Board That Opposed Tax

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, June 23

 BODY:
In an effort to reassert control over unruly factions in the Government bureaucracy, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso has dismissed the board of one of the largest Government-controlled banks after it opposed an important tax.
Mr. Cardoso on Tuesday evening ousted the 10 highest-ranking executives of Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo S.A., known as Banespa, including the president, Joao Alberto Magro. The bank had sought a court order aimed at freeing itself from paying a 0.38 percent tax on financial transactions. 
 The tax, which this year is expected to raise at least 7 billion reais -- now $3.9 billion -- is considered essential in containing the nation's budget deficit, a lingering worry among investors concerned with the long-term health of the Brazilian economy.
"You don't want people questioning this tax in the courts," said Walter Molano, head of Latin American research at BCP Secutities in Greenwich, Conn.
The latest source of dissent, from a bank ranked as Brazil's sixth largest and controlled by national authorities, came at a time when the President's ability to limit crises within the Government has been called into question.
"This was an extreme example of how Cardoso can't control his executive branch," said David Fleischer, a political science professor at the University of Brasilia.
In recent days, Mr. Cardoso has had to deal with the resignation of the appointee to head the federal police after the candidate was accused of torture during military rule in the 1970's. That episode followed a dispute between high-ranking aides on economic development policy and a scandal over the freewheeling use of military jets by Cabinet ministers for personal trips.
Although the President's popularity rating has slipped to its lowest level since he took office in 1995, his swift move against Banespa is seen by some as a turning point. Earlier this week, the President promised "zero tolerance" of dissent within the Government in an effort to strengthen his hand.
Banespa has been a burden, with a history of bad loans. It is scheduled to be privatized in October.
Brazil's largest privately owned banks, along with several foreign institutions, are preparing bids for Banespa. "Barring strong opposition from unions, there is every indication Banespa will be sold this year," said Erivelto Rodrigues, head of Austin Asis, a banking-analysis firm. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BESP3 (BOVESPA) (85%); BESP3 (BOVESPA) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); 

COMPANY: BANCO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO (BRAZIL) BANCO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO SA (BANESPA) (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANCO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO (BRAZIL)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION BUDGETS (90%); RANKINGS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LITIGATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (67%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); TRENDS (61%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); NATIONAL DEBT (54%); TORTURE (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES); MAGRO, JOAO ALBERTO FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



506 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: Long View From the Waterfront;
Developer Has Pursued a Brooklyn Dream for 20 Years

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER 

 BODY:
Samuel J. LeFrak owns more buildings, Mortimer B. Zuckerman wields more political clout and Donald J. Trump boasts a higher profile. But no New York developer is more persistent than David C. Walentas.
For 20 years Mr. Walentas has pursued a singular vision: the rebuilding of a tiny neighborhood of turn-of-the-century industrial buildings and Civil War-era warehouses tucked unobtrusively between the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges on the Brooklyn waterfront. 
 Many developers, Mr. Walentas among them, have converted old factories into loft residences and trendy shops in areas like SoHo, NoHo and TriBeCa in the last two decades. But no one has taken control of almost a whole neighborhood of dilapidated factory buildings and tried to transform it into a contemporary carnival of riverfront condominiums, offices, cafes, galleries, artists' studios and stores.
The first time Mr. Walentas dared to think so big, in the early 1980's, his plan was derailed by city officials who grew skeptical of his ability to realize his dream. They said he lacked sufficient financing, but he contended that he had been undone by a deputy mayor with a personal vendetta. The neighborhood was then known as Fulton Landing.
Now, 15 years later, Mr. Walentas is back. This time the neighborhood is called Dumbo -- for Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass -- and his plans are even more ambitious. He wants to build a luxury hotel, a 16-screen multiplex, a shopping mall, a marina, parking garages and an expanded waterfront park, almost all on government-owned land. For a while, the chances for success seemed brighter, in part because of New York's vibrant economy. But senior city officials have recently made ominous noises about potential problems with the plan.
Mr. Walentas is not easily deterred. He is described, by friend and foe alike, as tenacious. To admirers, that means smart and relentless; to critics, that means stubborn, if not intransigent.
An old friend, Pierson G. Mapes, who ran the NBC network's sales and marketing division for more than a decade, called him "a great visionary."
"He's got a passion for real estate, he understands the marketing very well, he understands balance sheets and he's very focused," Mr. Mapes said. "He's got the patience of Job."
But some former city and state officials who worked with Mr. Walentas on his first plan say his tenacity does not always serve him well when dealing with government. William J. Stern, who ran the state's economic development agency for much of the 1980's and who supported Mr. Walentas's first proposal, said he could be uncompromising.
"Walentas is very determined, and in his line of work that is very important," Mr. Stern said. "But I don't think he has the flexibility necessary when dealing with government. Just a little bit of c'est la guerre. He just did not have that. He's a man on a mission."
Mr. Walentas, an informal man who wears jeans and open-necked shirts in the office, does not hide his self-confident sense of mission.
"They're always calling me tenacious," he said. "But the problem with development is that the process is long term and the benefits are long term. And politics is a short-term process. Politicians can't take long-term views. None of them are going to be around when I'm finished."
Mr. Walentas, 60, is a wiry, energetic man with a thick shock of gray hair. He is direct, open and focused, many of his friends said, perhaps to a fault. "He is, to put it mildly, direct about everything," said Donald A. Pels, a retired broadcasting executive who has known Mr. Walentas for 25 years. "He's more likely to twist the tiger's tail than to duck questions."
Mr. Walentas and his wife, Jane, have an apartment with panoramic views in one of his waterfront buildings and a house on a horse farm in Bridgehampton, where he spends weekends riding and playing polo. He has amassed a considerable fortune in real estate -- like most big-time developers, he will not say exactly how large -- but his roots are in a very different world.
And his life history has repeatedly taught him the virtues of perseverance and risk-taking. (In case he should forget, the lesson is emblazoned in bold letters on the left cuff of each of his custom-made, button-down shirts: "No guts, no glory.")
Mr. Walentas grew up in a working-class family in Rochester. When he was 5, his father, a postal worker, suffered a stroke that left him paralyzed. His mother, overwhelmed, sent Mr. Walentas and his older brother, Peter, to live for the next six years with families on farms outside Rochester, under circumstances he described as "somewhere between foster homes and indentured servitude."
When he returned home, at a time his mother was working nights at the post office, bright and ambitious young David earned money nights and weekends assembling boxes at local department stores. He won a scholarship to the University of Virginia, where he earned a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and a graduate degree in business administration.
In 1966, after stints working in Greenland, Australia and Japan to pay off student loans, he came to New York City to fulfill a longstanding dream.
"I always wanted to be in the real estate business," he said. "I don't know why. Some people have musical talent, some people have dance talent. Real estate was something that I just always understood."
He worked days as a management consultant and spent nights and weekends scouting properties. With two young partners, he bought his first building in 1967, an apartment house on Manhattan Avenue on the Upper West Side. "I made a classic mistake," he said. "I bought the best building in a bad neighborhood."
Then he and his partners got smarter. It was not long before they turned their attention to SoHo, where they bought old factory buildings and converted them to residential lofts. Some of Mr. Walentas's other ventures included co-op conversions on lower Fifth Avenue and West 58th Street, renovations of low-income apartment buildings in the Bronx and the purchase of apartment complexes in Queens, Baltimore and Atlanta.
Mr. Walentas knew nothing about Brooklyn until a day two decades ago when he ventured there to check out a listing for a vacant factory near the East River. He lunched at the River Cafe, just south of the Brooklyn Bridge, and then meandered through the faded industrial neighborhood to the north.
He took in the Empire Stores, a vacant warehouse built just after the Civil War, the scruffy state-owned riverfront park and the dozen or so large factory buildings sandwiched between the two bridges, the river and the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. Transfixed by the spectacular views of Manhattan and contemplating the lessons of SoHo, he had a brainstorm.
"I thought, 'Wow, what a neighborhood!' " he recalled. "I thought I shouldn't buy just one building; I should buy as many as I could."
Within short order, he had done just that. By 1982, Mr. Walentas owned almost all of the neighborhood's major buildings, 10 in all, and he began pushing to redevelop the government-owned waterfront.
The project bogged down in 1984, when Kenneth Lipper, then a deputy mayor, blocked the plan, saying that Mr. Walentas had failed to obtain adequate financing. Mr. Walentas contended that Mr. Lipper was motivated by a personal agenda, that he wrongly held Mr. Walentas responsible for the suicide a few years earlier of Mr. Walentas's real estate partner, J. Frederic Byers 3d, who had also been a friend of Mr. Lipper.
Mr. Lipper declined to comment on the matter, but many former city and state officials said his decision had been made on the merits.
"I did not see substance to Walentas's accusations," said Mr. Stern, who supported the plan at the time as chairman of the State's Urban Development Corporation. "Every issue Ken raised, in my judgment, was a solid, substantive issue."
Mr. Walentas held onto his buildings -- and his dream. After getting permission two years ago to convert some of his factory buildings, he rebuilt the tallest one, with a dramatic clock tower, into large condominium loft apartments with proverbial million-dollar views and price tags to match. He is renovating two smaller vacant factory buildings into rental apartments.
He remains dedicated to the idea of a major entertainment, shopping and cultural complex along the river, which, of course, would enhance the value of his property. "It's just such a great waterfront that it has to get developed," Mr. Walentas said.
While the architecture of the proposed hotel has won praise, many community groups have criticized the overall plan as too commercial, too large and a potential traffic nightmare. Mr. Walentas dismisses such concerns as misguided. "People are afraid of change," he said.
City and state officials have selected him to develop the waterfront, but his plan has not yet received a formal nod from the City Planning Department to begin the long, arduous land-use review and approval process.
It may have already hit a snag. A mayoral adviser said last week that there were "some serious problems" with the proposal, which the adviser declined to specify. "It just might not pass muster," the aide said.
Mr. Walentas, however, remains confident that a version of what he is proposing will be built, perhaps soon or perhaps later. Mr. Walentas continues to think long term: If he cannot complete the project, his son Jed, who is 24 and works for his father, will.
"Frankly, this is my last shot," he said. "Jed will take the next one. He was 4 when we started this."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: David C. Walentas, in a model apartment, says development is a long-term process while politics is short term. Factory buildings along the Brooklyn waterfront are involved in prolonged development discussions. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RETAILERS (75%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; WALENTAS, DAVID C DONALD TRUMP (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



507 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft's Final Witness Is Questioned on Payments

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23

 BODY:
A Government lawyer began cross-examination of Microsoft's final witness in its antitrust trial today and quickly prompted him to disclose that Microsoft had paid about $250,000 for his testimony and related work.
The witness was Richard L. Schmalensee, dean of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Microsoft's expert economist for the trial. He said that over the last two years he has charged Microsoft $800 an hour for his trial work. In addition, the private company through which he bills Microsoft paid him a $200,000 bonus last year, double that of the previous year, presumably because of the Microsoft income. 
 A fee of $800 an hour is not an unusual retainer for an expert witness of this sort. But David Boies, the Government's lead trial lawyer, apparently hoped the disclosure would further his broad effort to impeach Mr. Schmalensee's testimony. The last time Mr. Schmalensee was on the stand, in January, Mr. Boies suggested that he was Microsoft's "house economist."
Expert witnesses are routinely paid for their testimony. And Mr. Boies posed his questions long after the Government's own expert economist, Franklin M. Fisher, another M.I.T. professor, had left the stand, giving Microsoft's lawyers no opportunity to pose similar questions to him. Testimony while Mr. Fisher was on the stand suggested that he, too, stood to profit handsomely from participating in the trial.
Michael Lacovara, a Microsoft lawyer, ended his friendly examination of Mr. Schmalensee this morning with a long series of questions about Web-based applications -- software programs that reside on the Web and are used while on line.
He showed several examples of new entrants in this budding market and observed that the trend suggested Microsoft did not have a durable monopoly in personal computer operating systems. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, who is hearing the case without a jury, had shown interest in the subject Tuesday evening, saying he imagined software companies were writing these programs "in droves."
This morning, Mr. Lacovara introduced as evidence an Internet news article published just two hours before Judge Jackson's remark, headlined "Web-based applications debut in droves."
"Sometimes, Your Honor, we get lucky," Mr. Lacovara said, and the judge smiled appreciatively.
But when Mr. Boies's turn came, he asked Mr. Schmalensee if it was not true that to use a Web-based application, a user needed a Web browser and an operating system -- in most cases, Windows. Mr. Schmalensee reluctantly agreed. The unspoken question was: How does this phenomenon threaten Windows if a Windows computer was needed to use the programs?
In quick succession, Mr. Boies also managed to discredit two charts that Mr. Schmalensee had offered as evidence on Monday and, by implication, to raise questions about the validity of a wide range of statistics the witness had offered as evidence.
The charts were meant to show that the Netscape browser was growing and thriving, despite Microsoft's efforts to crush it. Mr. Boies quickly pointed out that the chart was flawed, the conclusions exaggerated. Mr. Schmalensee, clearly flustered, stammered a bit as he said: "A comparison here suggests there's a difficulty. One of these things is wrong, that's apparent."
Later, Microsoft offered a corrected version of the chart. But then Mr. Boies set about attacking the underlying data. He showed several E-mail messages in which a survey company had told Microsoft that one of the key questions used to derive browser market share was badly flawed, resulting in unreliable answers. But Microsoft had not accepted the company's suggestion to change it.
Mr. Schmalensee said he had not even been aware of the discussion, though the private company with which he is associated was a party to the E-mail dialogue. In any case, the witness said, "I'm not a specialist in writing surveys, and wouldn't have felt competent to evaluate it." Besides, he added, "I don't consider it particularly material."
Then Mr. Boies showed that one key question was so badly designed that 20 percent of the answers were demonstrably unreliable. "A 20 percent figure inconsistency -- wouldn't that bother you?" he asked Mr. Schmalensee.
"It would really depend on the exact question asked," the witness replied. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (90%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; STATES (US) LAWYERS (91%); WITNESSES (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); EXPERT WITNESSES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); JUDGES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LITIGATION (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL; BOIES, DAVID; SCHMALENSEE, RICHARD L RICHARD L SCHMALENSEE (94%); DAVID BOIES (93%); MICHAEL LACOVARA (60%); FRANKLIN M FISHER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1999



508 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 6; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 2386 words

HEADLINE: Chamber Music as It Was

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI 

 BODY:
Chamber music, as its name implies, is music meant to be performed in chamber-size rooms. Historically, such performances were informal. When Mozart and some friends got together to play string quartets, they were taking part essentially in sight-reading sessions for the musicians involved, with sometimes an extra listener or two. And they were usually playing in someone's living room. Even when the idea of chamber music concerts took hold, these still tended to be private affairs in smaller spaces, at most a wealthy musical amateur's elegant salon with chandeliers, satin sofas and floor space for additional chairs.
The concert halls where chamber music is typically performed today are too large. Alice Tully Hall, which was built for chamber music, is much too large at 1,096 seats. Merkin Concert Hall, which seats about 450, is better. The rotunda at the Frick Collection, which can accommodate about 175, is better still, though the sound of the room is rather bright. 
 But is there any place where music lovers can experience the intimacy of chamber music as it was in the days of Mozart and Mendelssohn and as it should still be today?
Yes. On a 102-foot solid steel barge docked on the East River in Fulton Ferry Landing in Brooklyn, just south of the Brooklyn Bridge, practically underneath it.
Since 1977, this has been the home of Bargemusic, which may be the most prolific chamber music series in the world, since it offers at least two concerts a week -- on Thursday evenings and Sunday afternoons, and during certain periods one more on Friday nights -- all year round. The founder and director of Bargemusic is the 80-year-old Olga Bloom, a wizened, soft-spoken yet indomitable amateur violinist who is also something of a local character among her maritime neighbors. She owns the barge, which she bought in the 1970's for $10,000, and until about 15 years ago she lived on it as well. "I was a peculiar apparition around here," she said on Sunday after an all-Schubert concert on the barge. "I was happy living here. But the city was getting so many inquiries from other harbor people who wanted to live on the river that they kicked me off." She bought a Civil War-era home in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn for $6,000 and lives there still.
She might as well be living on the barge for all the time she spends there. It's nothing fancy, just your basic barge, with a 10-foot high ceiling and a narrow metal gangplank. But inside, the walls are paneled with lovely cherry wood, which Ms. Bloom carted over in her car from Staten Island and installed herself with help from family and friends. There are the requisite amenities (a restroom and such), and a pantry to prepare snacks and drinks for sale. Using folding chairs, the space can accommodate about 130 comfortably, though the Fire Department has given clearance for 179.
The barge may be spare, but the view it affords of lower Manhattan across the river is spectacular, and it can be enjoyed not just from the rooftop deck, where the audience wanders during intermission, but from inside during the concerts: the musicians play on a slightly raised platform against a rear wall of windows that overlooks the river.
It's not the room's acoustical properties that make it so ideal for chamber music. Actually, the space has some acoustical quirks. The piano, a lovely Steinway, sounds imposing up close, yet somewhat under-powered on the far side of the room. But it doesn't matter. The intimate space draws you into the midst of a performance. On Sunday, when a group of fine musicians played Schubert's "Trout" Quintet, the resonance of the bass seemed to travel right through the floorboards, and the brilliant piano writing in the high register of the keyboard jangled in the ears. It was positively symphonic. And that's the point. Heard up close, chamber works become enormous musical statements.
 
A Spiritual Goal
The idea of chamber music on a barge may seem peculiar, but Ms. Bloom points to a precedent. When King George I of England asked Handel to write music for a royal water party, legend has it that the musicians played for the revelers on a barge floating up the Thames. "If it was good enough for a king, it is good enough for us," Ms. Bloom says.
But her inspiration was as much spiritual as musical. "We are strangling in plastic," she says. "It has been my sad fate to watch electronic developments increase the profitability of music in certain areas and diminish the sensitivity of human response in general." She wanted to create at least one small place where people can come together, audiences and musicians, and realize that they have shared values.
Sometimes, for gala events, Ms. Bloom will participate in a performance. Mostly she plays chamber music in the traditional way: with friends at home in the darkness of the night, she says.
Ms. Bloom was born in Boston to immigrant parents. Her Russian father, an ardent Communist, "played the violin atrociously," she says. Her mother, of Slavic descent, sang beautifully. Their relationship survived the turbulent 1920's by their shared love of nature and music. Ms. Bloom's violin teacher, Jacques Hoffmann, was the associate concert master of the Boston Symphony Orchestra at the time. When the Depression came, he kept teaching her free of charge. When Ms. Bloom realized that a professional career as a violinist was not in her future, she still felt a need to give something back to music.
 
Wood, Steel and Waves
Getting Bargemusic going was a formidable undertaking. She owned two barges before settling on the current one. The first was a "glorious thing," Ms. Bloom says, with massive beams. But the four-inch-thick flooring just soaked up the sound. Moreover, a wooden barge was uninsurable, she learned. So public concerts would have been prohibited. The second barge was solid steel, but the particular type of steel was spongy and brittle. "If you poked your finger in the hull, it started to give way," she explains. Over the years Ms. Bloom has put some $100,000 into renovating the current barge, which has proved reliable and inviting.
A large circle of excellent and loyal musicians have been involved with Bargemusic. The remarkable cellist Ronald Thomas, who is based in New York but is also the artistic director of the Boston Chamber Music Society, participated in Sunday's program and serves on the seven-member Resident Artists Committee, which picks the programs. "So many of us have played with each other over the years, not just here but in other places, that it feels like we are regular partners," he said after the concert. "Yet there is a comradeship, a spirit of informality that allows us to take musical risks that we might not in some Manhattan hall."
Of course, the musicians must deal with the shifting of the barge, which rocks gently up and down every time a ferry, tugboat or cargo ship passes by. "You can count on having a slip, or two or three in every piece," Mr. Thomas said. "But it doesn't matter." Ms. Bloom thinks that a little sense of danger makes the atmosphere more romantic and helps the audience pay attention.
The musicians take risks not just in interpretations but in programming, which is adventurous. A concert tonight, part of a special Friday series sponsored by the Nakamichi Foundation, offers a piano trio composed in 1984-85 by the Argentine-born composer Maurizio Kagel and the Brahms Piano Quartet in G minor. A program on Sunday afternoon at 4 will present the fine Hungarian pianist Peter Nagy in a recital of works by Messiaen, Bartok and Schubert.
 
A Different Notion
Programs frequently mix the old and the new in enticing ways. But even standard repertory programs, like Sunday's all-Schubert concert, are freshly thought out. The "Trout" Quintet was preceded by an Adagio and Rondo for the same group of unusual instruments (violin, viola, cello, bass, piano), a little-known work that sounds like a sketch for a mini piano concerto. Mr. Nagy also gave an eloquent account of one of Schubert's least-heard piano works, the five-movement Sonata, D. 459.
New musicians keep getting drawn into the Bargemusic circle. In February the pianist Peter Serkin played there for the first time with a group of exemplary performers including two members of the Artists Committee: the violist Paul Neubauer and the cellist Fred Sherry. The program offered recent works by Oliver Knussen and Toru Takemitsu and a pair of Haydn piano trios in big-gestured performances that, heard up close, seemed a rebuke to the notion that Classical era chamber music should be refined.
 Change is coming to the Bargemusic schedule in January. Ms. Bloom's board has just given her the go-ahead to offer regular concerts on Saturday evenings. The idea would be to have one program played on Thursday nights and Sunday afternoons, and another on Friday and Saturday nights. This means that the rental of the barge for catered events on Saturdays, which in the past has provided one-third of the organization's income, will cease. "The hell with it," Ms. Bloom says. "Everything in life is a risk. Let's go for it."
 
Harbor Dredging
Ms. Bloom must be the only presenter of chamber music around who has to worry about the dredging of New York Harbor. Plans for this environmentally essential work are under heated discussion between the Coast Guard, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Port Authority of New York and the Department of Economic Development, she explained. It will be a huge project, and no agreement has yet been reached about how to proceed. Silt and sediment have accumulated in the riverbed to the point that during low tides the barge sometimes rests on rock, which is terrible for its hull.
But Ms. Bloom remains irrepressible and committed to her barge as a site for chamber music. She is even feeling more hopeful about the economic future of struggling musicians, something that pained her for decades. "Finally, there seems to be a growing awareness that we in this society are being blunted spiritually and personally beyond redemption," she says. "The arts can heal us, and I think there is a new awareness of this. I think there is a change in the tide."
She may be right. Ms. Bloom is an authority on the tide.
 
The Bargeschedule
 
Bargemusic is at the Fulton Ferry Landing, Old Fulton Street, at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge. Tickets are $23 ($20 for the elderly, $15 for students). Information: (718) 624-2083 or (718) 624-4061. Here is a schedule of programs through August:
 
TODAY: Kagel's Piano Trio and Brahms's Piano Quartet in G minor, 7:30 P.M. Performers are Jennifer Frautschi, violinist; Toby Hoffman, violist; Felix Fan, cellist, and Paige Hoffman, pianist.
 
SUNDAY: Bartok's Dance Suite; Messiaen's "Baiser de L'Enfant Jesus" from the "Vingt Regards sur L'Enfant Jesus"; Schubert's Sonata in B-flat, 4 P.M. Peter Nagy, pianist.
 
JULY 1: Beethoven's String Quartet No. 5 in A; Dvorak's String Quartet in F; Gershwin's "Lullaby," 7:30 P.M. Also July 4 at 4 P.M.
 
JULY 2: Griffes's Sonata for Solo Piano; Rorem's "Night Music"; Copland's Waltz and Celebration from "Billy the Kid"; Fass's "Capriccio"; Schonfeld's "Cafe Music" for Piano Trio; Gershwin's "Preludes," 7:30 P.M.
 
JULY 8: Rossini's Duet for Cello and Bass; Mozart's Divertimentos for Strings in Fand D; Dvorak's Bass Quintet, 7:30 P.M. Also July 11 at 2 P.M.; the July 11 performance will be broadcast live on WNYC-FM (93.9) and WNYC-AM (820).
 
JULY 9: Telemann's Trio Sonata for Two Violins, Harpsichord and Basso Continuo; Couperin's Duet for Bass and Harpsichord; Three by Bach: Sonata for Violin in G minor, Gamba Sonata in G and the Trio Sonata in C for Two Violins, Harpsichord and Basso Continuo; two by Handel: the Ciaccona for Harpsichord in G and Air and Variazoni in E, 7:30 P.M.
 
JULY 15: Mozart's Piano Trio in B flat; Mendelssohn's Piano Trio in C minor; Pinnington/Peskanov's "Circle II" for Voice, Violin and Cello, 7:30 P.M. Also July 18 at 2 P.M.; the July 18 performance will be broadcast live on WNYC-FM (93.9) and WNYC-AM (820).
 
JULY 16: Vivaldi's Violin Concerto "L'a Tempesta di Mare" in E flat; Schubert's Rondo for Violin with String Quartet in A, and Chausson's Concerto for Piano and Violin with String Quartet, 7:30 P.M.
 
JULY 22: Beethoven Sonatas for Violin and Piano: in D (Op. 12, No. 1); in A (Op. 12, No. 2); in E flat (Op. 12, No. 3) and in A minor (Op. 23), 7:30 P.M.
 
JULY 23: Beethoven Sonatas for Violin and Piano: in F (Op. 24); in A (Op. 30, No. 1); in C minor (Op. 30, No. 2), 7:30 P.M.
 
JULY 25: Beethoven Sonatas for Violin and Piano: in G (Op. 30, No. 3); in A (Op. 47) and in G (Op. 96), 4 P.M.
 
JULY 29: Beethoven's Piano Trio in D major; Chopin's Sonata in B minor; Shostakovich's Piano Trio in E minor, 7:30 P.M. Also Aug. 1 at 4 P.M.
 
JULY 30: Stravinsky's Suite Italienne; Wuorinen's "Fast Fantasy" and "An Oracle of Jasp" and short works by Debussy, Stravinsky, Cui and Bach, 7:30 P.M.
 
AUG. 5: Francaix's String Trio in C; Chopin's Sonata in G minor; Brahms's Piano Quartet in C minor, 7:30 P.M. Also Aug. 8 at 4 P.M.
 
AUG. 6: The Great American Song Book: Spirituals, love songs, American songs and Bauer's "Four Piano Pieces," 7:30 P.M.
 
AUG. 12: Beethoven's String Trio in C minor; Arensky's Quartet for Strings in A minor; Schubert's String Quartet in C, 7:30 P.M. Also Aug. 15 at 4 P.M.
 
AUG. 13: To be announced.
 
AUG. 19: Beethoven's Trio for Clarinet, Cello and Piano in B flat; Elgar's Sonata for Violin and Piano; Mendelssohn's Trio in C minor, 7:30 P.M. Also Aug. 22 at 4 P.M.
 
AUG. 20: Debussy's Sonata for Cello and Piano; Beethoven's Sonata for Piano and Cello in C; Schumann's Five Pieces in Folk Style for Cello and Piano"; R. Strauss's Sonata for Cello and Piano in F, 7:30 P.M.
 
AUG. 26: Mozart's Flute Quartet in D; Villa-Lobos's "Jet Whistle" for Flute and Cello; Durufle's Prelude, Recitative and Variations for Flute, Viola and Piano; Brahms's Piano Quartet in A, 7:30 P.M. Also Aug. 29 at 4 P.M.
 
AUG. 27: Bach/Reger's Brandenburg Concerto No. 6 in B flat; Schubert's "Lebenssturme"; Debussy's "Six Epigraphes Antiques"; Gershwin's "Rhapsody in Blue," 7:30 P.M.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Olga Bloom, the founder and director of Bargemusic, with, left to right, Toby Hoffman, Peter Nagy and Ronald Thomas behind her. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BARGEMUSIC; FULTON FERRY LANDING (NYC) CLASSICAL MUSIC (96%); MUSIC (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); FERRIES (70%); 

PERSON: TOMMASINI, ANTHONY; BLOOM, OLGA OLGA BLOOM (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



509 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 33; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: A Model for Penn Station Is on View at the Modern

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
A model of the proposed design for the new Pennsylvania Station has been placed on view at the Museum of Modern Art. The display will remain on the fourth-floor landing outside the museum's architecture and design galleries until Aug. 1.
The presentation revives the Preview series, an exhibition program initiated in 1993 by Terence Riley, chief curator of the Modern's department of architecture and design, as a showcase for individual buildings before construction. Projects previously featured in the series include the Tokyo International Forum, designed by Rafael Vinoly; the Austrian Cultural Institute in Manhattan, by Raimund Abraham, and the Nara Convention Hall, by Arata Isozaki. 
 Designed by David M. Childs of the New York office of Skidmore Owings & Merrill, the new Penn Station is to be housed in the James A. Farley Building, the Beaux-Arts post office on Eighth Avenue between West 31st and 33d Streets. The design includes a new ticketing hall, two blocks long, housed beneath a dramatic, curving space frame of metal and glass. The framework, 150 feet high, also contains the main entrances to the train station, which will be on 31st and 33d Streets between Eighth and Ninth Avenues. Waiting areas and shops will occupy a series of platforms, or trays, that step down from street level to the train platforms four stories below ground.
The $486 million project, the most important public work undertaken in New York in more than a generation, will include the Manhattan terminal of a rail link to Kennedy Airport, in addition to hubs for Amtrak, New Jersey Transit and the Long Island Rail Road. A rail link to Newark Airport is also planned.
For now, the United States Postal Service will continue to operate in the 1935 annex to the Farley Building, which was designed in 1913 by McKim, Mead & White, the architects of the original Penn Station. The postal service will also maintain its existing retail operations in the lobby on the Eighth Avenue side of the building.
In an interview, Mr. Riley said, "The Preview series will resume at a steady beat, focusing on newsworthy projects as they break." He said he expected New York building projects to be a regular feature of the museum series. "For the last three decades, New Yorkers with an interest in architecture have had to settle for mediocre developer work as the homegrown product," Mr. Riley said. "The Skidmore, Owings & Merrill design for the new Penn Station is mercifully an exception, and hopefully is the beginning of renewed interest in the city and in architectural excellence."
The Penn Station project faces economic and political obstacles before construction can proceed. About $80 million of the projected cost has yet to be secured. Supporters of the project were dismayed when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani declined to attend an unveiling ceremony last month. Though the city has committed only $25 million -- roughly 5 percent of the total cost -- Mr. Giuliani has the power to veto the spending of funds already obtained from Federal and state sources.
The Mayor has also expressed reservations about Mr. Childs's design. At a news conference, he likened the new ticketing hall to a side alley. For the next few weeks, visitors to the Modern will have the opportunity to see for themselves.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A computer image of a platform leading from the ticketing hall to trains at the new Penn Station. (Pixel by Pixel/Skidmore, Owings & Merrill)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC) SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (56%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (54%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (53%); NEW YORK (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC) NEW YORK (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; PENNSYLVANIA STATION (NYC); STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); ARCHITECTURE MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (86%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (71%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); POSTAL SERVICE (63%); 

PERSON: CHILDS, DAVID M; MUSCHAMP, HERBERT RUDY GIULIANI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



510 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 27; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 4528 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
Even in Fog, That City On a Hill Dazzles

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
More than any other, this is the city that Americans fantasize about. No one leaves his heart in Salt Lake City. No one calls Baltimore Baghdad by the Bay, as Herb Caen, the city's six-day-a-week poet laureate for more than 50 years, called San Francisco.
For me San Francisco has always been a paradox: a thoroughly worldly place, yet remote and somehow detached from world capitals like New York and London; a little indifferent to the mundane business of trading shares and casting votes; in other words, a bit smug. (The good Mr. Caen, who before his death in 1997 did for San Francisco what Samuel Pepys did for London, once quoted a local citizen who, upon reaching heaven, reported back to friends here that "it's nice, but it isn't San Francisco.") 
 Yet San Francisco looms large in the imagination of everyone who knows it, myself most decidedly included. Like Paris, Venice and Hong Kong, it is a city without peer, a city of myth and magic.
I can't think of the place without thinking about sourdough bread and Alice Waters, who revolutionized American cooking; Joe DiMaggio, the fisherman's son, and A. P. Giannini, another Italian-American, who built the world's largest bank; Turk Murphy and San Francisco jazz; Alcatraz and San Quentin; the hairpin bends on Lombard Street and the sudden watery vistas.
The weather I could do without. Fog veils the city so often that a local radio station has adopted the call letters KFOG. Fog bleaches the color from the perky paint jobs on the Victorian frame houses that march up and down the city's distinctive hills. When the fog finally lifts, when everything sparkles in the sun, it is an occasion for celebration. Yes! A five-bridge day, with all the spans from the Golden Gate almost down to Palo Alto clearly visible.
But fog has its uses. Several years ago, crossing the Bay Bridge from Oakland to San Francisco at dawn, my wife, Betsey, and I watched bug-eyed as the Transamerica pyramid and the city's other towers rose bronzed and beautiful from their cloudy bed. Nothing, in truth, not fog or rain or fire or quake, ever quite masks San Francisco's beauty or quenches its exuberance. Its setting rivals Rio's. Its charm compares with Boston's. Its joie de vivre nearly matches that of New Orleans; it lacks only the last Latin measure of heedlessness.
Characters from Nob Hill and Telegraph Hill, Chinatown and the Tenderloin have walked straight into the pages of Bret Harte, Jack London, Frank Norris, Dashiell Hammett, Tom Wolfe (who found the essential San Francisco experience in "roaring up hills or down hills, sliding on and off the cable-car tracks") and John Steinbeck, who loved San Francisco, as he wrote, when "the afternoon sun painted her white and gold, rising on her hills like a noble city in a happy dream."
San Francisco is on something of a cultural tear lately, cementing its position as the West Coast's cultural capital, although Los Angeles is by no means the pothole full of philistines many San Franciscans see when (if) they take the plane south.
The San Francisco Opera is the nation's second largest, after the Met, and it has the largest budget of any West Coast arts organization.
An old autocrat named Kurt Herbert Adler built the opera's reputation, bringing singers of the caliber of Tebaldi, Schwarzkopf and Fassbaender to the United States for the first time. Lotfi Mansouri, the current general director, has gradually lengthened the season, and during the 10 months from next September through July 2000, 11 different operas will be performed.
At the moment, the opera is in the midst of four cycles of Wagner's immense "Ring of the Nibelung" at the War Memorial Opera House (the place where the United Nations Charter was signed on June 26, 1945, by representatives of 50 nations). The 15-year-old production was reshaped by Andrei Serban, the Romanian-born stage director, who had never seen a complete "Ring" until his own. Jane Eaglen, Deborah Voigt and James Morris are among the gods, demigods and giants onstage. The final cycle ends on July 3.
 
A Genuine Celebrity
Not to be outdone, the city's orchestra is just concluding an ambitious Stravinsky festival, exploring the master's work in Russia, Paris and Los Angeles, where its music director, Michael Tilson Thomas, then in his 20's, knew him at the end of his long, hugely productive career. Successor to luminaries like Monteux and Krips, the lithe, lean Maestro Thomas is one of only three American-born music directors of major American orchestras, along with Leonard Slatkin in Washington and Andrew Litton in Dallas. M. T. T., as the local papers call him, is one of San Francisco's genuine celebrities these days, a Pied Piper leading the young back into the concert hall.
If the critics grumble once in a while, the public has responded warmly to his programs in his nearly four years here, and even a Vienna audience would have been impressed, I think, by his powerful but never bombastic Bruckner Ninth in Davies Symphony Hall early this spring.
As ever under Mr. Thomas, there will be a lot of American and modern music next season, plus a tasty rarity, Elgar's "Dream of Gerontius."
The San Francisco Ballet is in the hands of an old New York favorite, Helgi Tomasson, who has transformed a regional troupe into a fine classical company since taking over as artistic director in 1985. I won't prattle on here; it's enough to quote Anna Kisselgoff of The New York Times, no easy mark, who proclaimed the company "world class" after watching it last year.
All three companies perform in San Francisco's Civic Center, whose most prominent building is the newly, grandly restored City Hall, with an enormous, echoing rotunda. (Don't miss it, even if this stuff usually leaves you cold as a musher's nose in midwinter.) Nearby stands the new public library, and by 2002, now that a knot of litigation has seemingly been untied, the Asian Art Museum is scheduled to open in the old library building, adapted by Gae Aulenti, the Italian wizard who turned a Paris train station into the Musee d'Orsay.
Comparisons are odious, if entertaining, but I would argue that the Asian museum is San Francisco's best. Built around the collection of Avery Brundage, it contains Japanese, Korean and Indian works, but the Chinese material is supreme. When the Chinese leader Jiang Zemin visited the museum, he was dazzled by a gilded image of the Buddha from A.D. 338. I'll bet you will be, too.
For the moment, the Asian museum shares a quake-weakened, obtrusively buttressed building in Golden Gate Park with the M. H. de Young Museum, which has raised $65 million for a new home, to be designed by Herzog & de Meuron, architects of the new Bankside building for the Tate Gallery in London. The strength of its collection lies in American painting, from George Caleb Bingham's "Boatmen on the Missouri" through Frederic E. Church's "Rainy Season in the Tropics" to Grant Wood's "Dinner for Threshers," a plain-faced group portrait that outshines the over-familiar "American Gothic." Many of the choicest pictures came in a 1978 gift of 175 items from Mr. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller 3d.
The de Young's sister museum, the California Palace of the Legion of Honor -- together they are known as the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco -- was rebuilt and reinvented several years ago, reopening in November 1995. It occupies a picturesque site in Lincoln Park, overlooking the great rust-red pylons of the Golden Gate Bridge, an iconic structure that embodies this city's spirit the way the Statue of Liberty embodies New York's.
Founded by the flamboyant Alma de Bretteville Spreckels, whose rich, indulgent husband, Adolph, inherited a sugar fortune, the museum's collection centers on European art, especially French art. The "Old Woman" by Georges de la Tour, a Monet "Waterlilies," a powerful off-center portrait by Degas, "The Impresario," and some 70 Rodins are in the collection.
Yet another arts district has sprung into being in recent years in the redeveloped area south of Market Street, known as SoMa. At its core is the Yerba Buena Center, designed for the many small-scale arts organizations in the Bay Area. It includes galleries by the Japanese architect Fumihiko Maki, sheathed in corrugated aluminum siding but still somehow delicate, and a theater designed by James Stewart Polshek, dark and angular on the inside but more like a jaunty piece of de Stijl sculpture outside.
 
More of the Arts
Around the perimeter are a children's entertainment and education center, complete with carousel; the brand-new $85 million Metreon, Sony's urban version of a Disney theme park, with an "environment" by Maurice Sendak, which is expected to attract five million visitors a year; the Ansel Adams Center for Photography, and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Still to come are a new Jewish Museum designed by Daniel Libeskind, who did a similar project in Berlin, and a new building for the Mexican Museum.
The big cheese, of course, is the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, which is housed in Mario Botta's four-year-old landmark building, whose truncated cylindrical tower lets the light flood in. A bequest from Elise S. Haas, of the Levi Strauss family, brought it several pictures once owned by Sarah Stein, the sister-in-law of Gertrude, including a breathtaking Fauve Matisse, "Femme au Chapeau." Phyllis C. Wattis, the San Francisco cultural world's Brooke Astor, gave $20 million in 1998 to buy 13 Rauschenbergs and other works.
Donald G. Fisher, the founder of the Gap clothing chain, paid $1.9 million in May for an Alexander Calder wood-and-wire sculpture called "Constellation." It appears to be headed for the modern art museum, too. But because of the need to rotate pictures, Bay Area artists like Richard Diebenkorn and Sam Francis are sometimes underrepresented on the museum's walls.
The Yerba Buena area is the epicenter of modern architecture in the city. Elsewhere, the pickings are slimmer, despite Frank Lloyd Wright's building on Maiden Lane, now the Circle Gallery, which was a precursor of the Guggenheim in its use of a spiral ramp, and his Buck Rogers-style civic center in Marin County.
Architecture buffs will want to see something of Bernard Maybeck, the individualist who foreshadowed the California Arts and Crafts movement. (The templelike Palace of Fine Arts, left over from the 1915 Panama-Pacific Exposition, and the First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Berkeley are his masterworks.) A glacier-white Richard Neutra house, cantilevered over a cliff with a picture-postcard view of the Bay Bridge, is at 56 Calhoun Terrace. And the excess of San Francisco's Gilded Age is wonderfully displayed in Alma Spreckels's Beaux-Arts mansion on Pacific Heights, with 26 bathrooms. It now belongs to Danielle Steel, the romance novelist.
 
Striking It Rich
Hemmed in by bay and ocean at the tip of a narrow peninsula, San Francisco is relatively small. It ranks only 13th on the list of American cities, with a population estimated at 735,000 in 1996; Los Angeles, San Diego and San Jose are all bigger. But the metropolitan area surrounding the bay, with 6.6 million people, is the nation's fifth largest.
San Francisco was built on three stout economic legs: silver from the Comstock Lode, the transcontinental railroads and the port, once dominated by Harry Bridges, the militant leader of the longshoremen.
George Hearst struck it rich in the mines; his son, William Randolph Hearst, struck it richer in yellow journalism, which he helped to invent; the younger Hearst's granddaughter Patty was kidnapped in 1974 by the Symbionese Liberation Army, but survived. The circulation of Hearst's flagship, The San Francisco Examiner, whose logo proclaims it "Monarch of the Dailies," has shriveled, but it may yet swallow its larger rival, The San Francisco Chronicle, whose owning families could give lessons to the Hatfields and the McCoys.
W. R. Hearst may have been satirized by Orson Welles in "Citizen Kane," but the men who built the Central Pacific, mostly on the back of Chinese coolies, were reviled in their own time as profiteers. They were called the Big Four: Leland Stanford, Collis P. Huntington, Charles Crocker and Mark Hopkins. According to one contemporary account, they made a $63 million profit on a $121 million investment.
It once seemed that San Francisco got by on beauty, charm and the spending of strangers. But that has changed, and radically.
Silicon Valley, just to the south, is the land of memory chips, software and freshly coined millionaires, which attracts a third of all the venture capital invested in the country. Five of the best 20 places to earn a living in the United States, a survey by Forbes magazine recently found, are within an hour and a half's drive of downtown San Francisco.
No wonder people want to live here. No wonder the median price for a single-family house in the Bay Area has risen 14.2 percent in the last year to $334,590. (In Atherton, a tony suburb, it hit $2.5 million.)
But off in a corner, with no share in this orgasm of prosperity, are the city's omnipresent homeless, begging for money at freeway offramps by day, rolling out their sleeping bags by night in the doorways of expensive stores and other buildings, hoping the police won't notice.
If the police do move in, some of the homeless people whip out their cellular phones and call television stations to come film the action.
As early as 1883, Robert Louis Stevenson remarked on the city's cosmopolitan character, detecting "the airs of Marseilles and Peking" in its streets. Writing in the same vein 50 years later, another traveler, John Gunther, called San Francisco "brilliant, polyglot and sophisticated," and said it "will tolerate everything, including the intolerable."
San Francisco has an established social order and lots of Old Money, even a mini-Wall Street. It has a fondness for clubs -- the Olympic; the Bohemian, with its encampments on the Russian River north of town, and the Pacific Union, whose brown sandstone clubhouse atop Nob Hill once belonged to the silver millionaire James Flood. It is bracketed by two universities of world stature -- the University of California at Berkeley, east of the bay, and Stanford University at Palo Alto, an hour south of the city.
But this has always been a city that embraces rule-breakers. From its beginnings as an R & R stop for Gold Rush pioneers through the wide-open era of Barbary Coast saloons to the heyday of North Beach topless bars, featuring the silicone-boosted charms of Carol Doda, San Francisco has been a good-time town, ready to live and let live.
 
A Town of Tolerance
As a result of its tolerance, the city has always had more than its share of characters, notably Joshua Norton, who proclaimed himself Emperor of the United States in 1859 (and advanced the obviously loony idea of a bridge connecting San Francisco and Oakland). I saw one of his spiritual descendants this spring, a portly fellow with full beard and flowing hair, dressed in overalls and railroad engineer's cap, ambling along, blowing soap bubbles.
Countercultures have flourished here since World War II. In the 1950's, Columbus Avenue gave birth to the Beat Generation and its bards Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg. In the 1960's came the hippies of Haight-Ashbury, preaching Flower Power, dreaming multicolored dreams and packing Bill Graham's rock concerts, and the student rebels of Berkeley, led by Mario Savio. In the 1970's, Huey Newton, from Oakland, made the Black Panthers a militant voice for the dispossessed of the nation's ghettos.
Gay men and lesbians were given an honored place in San Francisco when they were still swept under the carpet elsewhere. It was perhaps inevitable that the American AIDS epidemic hit first and hardest here, but horrifyingly unexpected when the gay activist Harvey Milk, whose election as a Supervisor in 1977 had thrilled gay San Franciscans, was assassinated in 1978 along with the city's Mayor, George R. Moscone.
Now the Mayor is Willie L. Brown Jr., a black boulevardier who started life as a sharecropper's son, a man with the charm of Cary Grant, the audacity of a high-wire artist and lots of political smarts. Willie, as they say here, never bothering to specify his last name, "is a piece of work." Some people bridle at his Italian suits, flashy cars and pretty girlfriends, but few will bet against him when he stands for re-election this fall. Many nights, he attends a half-dozen political functions before meeting a friend for a late dinner, and then at midnight he stands on the street outside the restaurant, greeting and teasing a few of the tourists who throng to his city.
His most reliable supporters are San Francisco's Chinese.
 
Delights by the Bay
 
Here is information about visiting San Francisco:
 
Where to Stay
 
CAMPTON PLACE, 340 Stockton Street, (415) 781-5555. A polished little gem of a hotel, ideally situated just off Union Square, marred only by a few overly snug bedrooms. The multinational, multilingual staff will jump through hoops to make you comfortable. A half-dozen of San Francisco's best chefs have presided in the dining room over the last quarter-century. Double room: $260 to $400.
 
MANDARIN ORIENTAL, 222 Sansome Street, (415) 885-0999. In the heart of the Financial District yet close enough to Union Square, Chinatown and SoMa, this is a spectacular sibling of one of Hong Kong's finest hotels. It occupies floors 38 to 48 of a skyscraper, guaranteeing great views. Double room: $415 to $570 weekdays; $255 to $550 weekends.
 
REX, 562 Sutter Street, (415) 433-4434. Like Paris, San Francisco is blessed with affordable hotels, and the Rex is among the most charming. A vaguely clubby lobby with a bar and rooms with luxury-hotel amenities -- voice mail, dataports, movies -- dispel any hint of slumming. Double room: $165 to $245.
 
RITZ-CARLTON, 600 Stockton Street, (415) 296-7465. As ritzy as they come, this is the city's premier hotel, a worthy successor to the grandes dames of the past like the St. Francis, the Clift and the Fairmont. Perched on the side of Nob Hill, it is fairly stuffed with marble, crystal and brocade, and the bedrooms are luxurious in size as well as decor. We ate an impeccable Thanksgiving dinner one year in the pretty restaurant. Double room: $309 to $3,500 for a suite.
 
W, 181 Third Street, (415) 777-5300, is a sassy new spot in the Yerba Buena arts district. An octagonal three-story lobby adjoins a "living room" with smart modern furniture. Royal blue and chocolate brown are the colors of choice upstairs and down. The restaurant is called XYZ, natch. Double room: $239 to $319.
 
Where to Eat
 
CHEZ PANISSE, 1517 Shattuck Avenue, Berkeley, (510) 548-5525. What to say? Alice Waters only gets better, buying superlative ingredients from small farmers and handling them with reverence. Every night, a six-course set menu, balanced and seasonal, is served in an old Craftsman house half hidden by trees. In the final week of May this year, the menus emphasized fava beans, morels, king salmon and asparagus. The atmosphere is a little worshipful for me, but who cares when everything looks and tastes so beautiful?
 
MASA, 648 Bush Street, (415) 989-7154. For decades now, Masa has been the town's top French restaurant, a subdued, formal place with subtle, complex cooking. Julian Serrano, who made it what it is, has followed the yellow brick road to Las Vegas, but Michael Bauer, The San Francisco Chronicle's exigent food critic, detects no decline in standards.
 
OLIVETO, 5655 College Avenue, Oakland, (510) 547-5356. Close your eyes, and Paul Bertolli will whisk you to the Umbrian countryside. He marries peasant heartiness with city-slicker lightness: homemade noodles with delicate sand dabs, gossamer gnocchi with sage and brown butter, moist roast pork bathed in rich pan juices, with fleshy white beans on the side. One of our companions called the dense chocolate tartuffo "heroin on a plate."
 
POSTRIO, 545 Post Street, (415) 776-7825. This is Wolfgang Puck's Northern California outpost, a trilevel showplace designed by the celebrated Pat Kuleto. Puckish pizzas at the bar; more substantial fare downstairs, notably roasted leg of lamb with garlic mashed potatoes (aaah) and nicoise olives. Or try the fine grilled quail. They serve breakfast, too.
 
RUBICON, 558 Sacramento Street, (415) 434-4100. The room is airy, the food solidly Californian, the management by Drew Nieporent watchful. But it is Larry Stone, California's best sommelier, who pulls in the winos, myself included. Can't find Grace Family cabernets? He has them (at a price, to be sure), as well as small-grower Burgundies and many other goodies.
 
SLANTED DOOR, 584 Valencia Street, (415) 861-8032. You will find no better Vietnamese food anywhere in the United States (or, I dare say, in Vietnam). The neighborhood is proletarian (no parking), but classic dishes like spring rolls and caramelized shrimp are executed with all the finesse of Alain Ducasse. The spicy squid and chili green beans aren't bad, either.
 
TADICH GRILL, 240 California Street, (415) 391-1849. Born with the Gold Rush, Tadich's turns 150 this year. Fabulously fresh fish, simply prepared, is the house specialty: sand dabs and petrale sole, grilled or pan-fried; the tomato-based seafood stew called cioppino, and peerless Dungeness crab in the shell, in a cocktail or in a salad. Go for lunch.
 
TON KIANG, 5821 Geary Boulevard, (415) 387-8273. Think you know dim sum? Ton Kiang will teach you a thing or two about greaseless frying, translucent dumpling skins and the use of chives, spring onions and ginger to point up flavors. This is a favorite of the chef Barbara Tropp, which speaks volumes, and it earns a tip of my hat for its smiling, efficient service.
 
ZUNI CAFE, 1658 Market Street, (415) 552-2522. A friend of mine calls Judy Rogers's Spartan cafe, with copper bar and roaring wood-burning oven, "the soul of San Francisco." So it is, in its delicious simplicity, whether you order a pristine martini and a plate of oysters at the bar, or a Caesar salad fit for a Caesar or, if you go late, an unlisted treat: a princely hamburger made from brined beef ground when you order and served on focaccia.
 
Attractions
 
SAN FRANCISCO OPERA, War Memorial Opera House, Van Ness Avenue and Grove Streets, (415) 864-3330. Wagner's "Ring of the Nibelung," through July 3. Box office: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Tickets: $30 to $190. Last production until September.
 
SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY, Civic Center Complex, Davies Symphony Hall, 201 Van Ness Avenue, (415) 864-6000. Through tomorrow, "A Stravinsky Festival"; sold out. Thursday through Aug. 1, the San Franciso Symphony presents its Summer in the City pops concert series, with special guests. The first concert is on Thursday and next Friday, with Patti LuPone. Tickets: $10-$48. Fall season begins on Sept. 8.
 
SAN FRANCISCO BALLET, Civic Center Complex, War Memorial Opera House, 301 Van Ness Avenue, (415) 865-2000. The ballet tours in the summer. Fall season begins in December with "The Nutcracker."
 
ASIAN ART MUSEUM, Tea Garden Drive, off John F. Kennedy Drive, Golden Gate Park, adjacent to the M. H de Young Memorial Museum, (415) 379-8801. About 200 pieces of Chinese jade from the Avery Brundage collection are on view through next summer; "The Unending Path: Paintings by Harold Wong From 1957-1997," through Oct. 17; "From the Rainbow's Varied Hue: Textiles of the Southern Philippines," through Aug. 15. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9:30 A.M. to 4:45 P.M. Admission (includes the M. H. de Young Museum): $7; $5, the elderly; $4, children 12 to 17; free, children under 12 and members.
 
M. H. DE YOUNG MUSEUM, 75 Tea Garden Drive, Golden Gate Park, next to the Asian Art Museum, (415) 863-3330. "The Art of Craft: Contemporary Works From the Faxe Collection," tomorrow through Oct. 17. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission: See Asian Art Museum.
 
CALIFORNIA PALACE OF THE LEGION OF HONOR, 34th Avenue and Clement Street, Lincoln Park, (415) 863-3330. "Francis Bacon: A Retrospective Exhibition," through Aug. 2; "The Treasury of Saint Francis of Assisi," July 24 through Nov. 14. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M.. Admission: $8; $6, the elderly, $5, children 12 to 17; under 12 is free.
 
YERBA BUENA CENTER, 701 Mission Street, at Third Street, (415) 978-2787. Through tomorrow night, "Sleazoid Express Film Festival." Admission to films and exhibitions: $6; $3, students and the elderly. Summer highlights include the Summerstage free lunchtime series in the Gardens, featuring a weeklong dance festival (July 19-23); San Francisco Butoh Festival (July 31); San Francisco Mime Troupe (Aug. 1) and noontime concerts.
 
METREON, Fourth and Mission Streets, (415) 369-6000 or (800) 638-7366. A four-story complex of theaters, shops and restaurants in the Yerba Buena Gardens area. Hours: Daily, 10 A.M. to 10 P.M. Admission: $7; $5, children. Web site: www.metreon.com.
 
ANSEL ADAMS CENTER FOR PHOTOGRAPHY, 250 Fourth Street, (415) 495-7000. "Innovation/Imagination: 50 Years of Polaroid Photography," through July 18; "Ansel Adams: Selections From the Permanent Collection," through July 10. Hours: Daily, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M.; to 8 P.M. the first Thursday of each month. Admission: $5; $3, students; $2, the elderly and children 12 to 17; free for members and children under 12.
 
MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, 151 Third Street, (415) 357-4000. "Carleton Watkins: The Art of Perception," through Sept. 7; "Bill Viola," through Sept. 12; "Robert Rauschenberg," through Sept. 6; "Daido Moriyama: Stray Dogs," through Aug. 3. Hours: Thursdays through Tuesdays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.; to 9 P.M. on Thursdays. Admission: $8; $5, the elderly; $4, students; children under 12, free. After Thursday, $1 more.
 
PALACE OF FINE ARTS, 3601 Lyon Street, in the Marina District near the Golden Gate Bridge. Constructed in 1915 for the Panama-Pacific Exposition. Inside is the Exploratorium, a science museum where "Frogs" is on view through Sept. 12. Hours: Daily, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.; to 9 P.M. Wednesdays. Museum admission: $9; $7, students and the elderly; $5, children 6 to 17; $2.50, children 3 to 5; under 3, free. Museum information: (415) 561-0360.
 
Getting There
 
BY AIR: Continental, (800) 525-0280, has six daily nonstop flights from Newark to San Francisco Airport, with fares ranging from a special Fourth of July weekend rate of $262 (reserved seven days in advance) to the regular seven-day advance round-trip fare of $1,354 (Saturday stay-over). The 14-day advance reservation fare is $420 round trip. The last-minute fare is $950 each way. TWA, (800) 221-2000, has two daily direct flights from Kennedy International Airport; United Airlines, (800) 538-2929, six from Newark and eight from Kennedy, and Delta, (800) 221-1212, two from Kennedy.
 R. W. APPLE Jr.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Palace of Fine Arts, a 1915 architectural gem overlooking San Francisco Bay. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. E27); The Asian Art Museum, with works from China, Japan, Korea and India, expects to move from Golden Gate Park to the old Public Library by 2002. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. E34)
 
Maps of San Francisco and San Francisco Bay. (pg. E34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (74%); HONG KONG (70%); CHINA (70%); FRANCE (70%); NORTHERN ASIA (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN GATE UNIVERSITY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (74%); HONG KONG (70%); CHINA (70%); FRANCE (70%); NORTHERN ASIA (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); POETRY (57%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR JOSEPH PAUL 'JOE' DIMAGGIO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



511 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

EURO GAINS. The dollar was lower against the euro as United States stocks and bonds fell on concern that the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates several times. The euro settled in New York at $1.0397, up from $1.0330.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Jan. 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



512 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Move Has Hong Kong Worried It Will Lose Trade

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 24

 BODY:
Fears about Hong Kong's future as an Asian trading post have grown here in the days since the United States Senate moved to tighten controls on exports to this former British colony in response to a Congressional report on military espionage and China.
The Senate on Tuesday approved legislation that would impose more stringent controls on the export of equipment and technology with military uses to Hong Kong and Macao -- a Portuguese colony that will be returned to China in December -- unless both territories allow the United States to verify that sensitive shipments end up in the right hands. 
 The bill, sponsored by Senator John Ashcroft, Republican of Missouri, follows assertions in the Congressional committee report that Hong Kong is a staging ground for the acquisition of military technology by China. "Prudence demands that if China diverts sensitive U.S. technology, we impose on Hong Kong and Macao the same export controls that govern sales to China itself," Mr. Ashcroft said in a statement.
It may be prudent for Washington. But for Hong Kong, which has $56 billion a year in trade with the United States, it could mean deep trouble.
"This is an extremely serious issue," said Victor Fung, chairman of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council. "It would affect a major area of development for us, which is moving up the food chain into high technology."
Like many people here, Mr. Fung disputes the accusations in the Congressional report from a committee led by Representative Christopher Cox, Republican of California. And he is angry that some in Congress want to strip Hong Kong of its status as an autonomous trading entity within China. Though it reverted to Chinese sovereignty two years ago, Hong Kong polices its own borders and is a member of the World Trade Organization. "It is manifestly unjust not to honor Hong Kong's status," Mr. Fung said. "You don't do that to a member of the W.T.O."
Hong Kong plays only a minor role in the Cox report, which asserts sweeping theft of American military technology by China. But it does come in for criticism as a teeming bazaar in which sensitive technology imports can be diverted to the mainland. The report asserts that a "sizable number of Hong Kong enterprises" are fronts for the People's Liberation Army. The army has a garrison here and regularly moves equipment to and from mainland China. The report says Hong Kong is not allowed to inspect army vehicles crossing the border -- making them a perfect way to smuggle goods.
Officials in Hong Kong said they had the right to inspect Chinese army vehicles. But the procedure is cumbersome: Customs authorities must call the garrison if they suspect an illegal shipment. The garrison then sends soldiers to conduct the inspection under the scrutiny of customs officers. Hong Kong concedes it has not inspected a single army vehicle since the handover.
"So far, we've had no grounds to suspect a breach of Hong Kong laws," said Yvonne Choi, Hong Kong's acting Secretary for Trade and Industry. "But that doesn't mean it won't happen in the future."
Hong Kong's Security Bureau is investigating a report published in a Chinese-language newspaper here that an army truck recently entered the enclave without making a full declaration of its cargo.
Ms. Choi declined to comment on the incident. But she said Hong Kong had an exemplary record of policing exports and imports. She argued that the examples cited in the Cox report -- including one in which parts for an air-to-air missile were found on a commercial flight arriving in Hong Kong -- illustrated the vigilance, not the laxity, of local authorities. "We consider it unfair to treat our successful enforcement actions as a cause for concern," she said.
Hong Kong's government plans a lobbying campaign to try to persuade lawmakers in the United States that its customs standards are adequate, and that Congress should not change Hong Kong's trading status. Officials recently invited Mr. Cox to visit Hong Kong to judge its controls for himself.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MACAO (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PORTUGAL (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HONG KONG TRADE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (55%); HONG KONG TRADE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONG KONG TRADE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (55%); HONG KONG TRADE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; HONG KONG; UNITED STATES; HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MACAO (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PORTUGAL (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ESPIONAGE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ARMIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ESPIONAGE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); SMUGGLING (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK VICTOR FUNG (78%); CHRISTOPHER COX (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



513 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Durable-Goods Orders in May Rebounded With a 1.4% Rise

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24

 BODY:
Orders placed with factories for durable goods rose in May for the second time in three months, further evidence that manufacturing is pulling out of last year's slump, Government figures showed.
Orders for items that last several years, such as automobiles and appliances, rose 1.4 percent last month, the Commerce Department reported today. The increase primarily reflected gains in demand for aircraft and autos and came after a revised 2.3 percent decrease in April. 
 The durable goods statistics and two reports showing that jobs remain plentiful suggest that the economy is rolling toward a record expansion early next year. That raises concern the economy is growing too fast and may ignite inflation, which some analysts say increases the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will raise rates more than once.
The gain in durable goods orders "says to the Federal Reserve that once again they are not seeing what they want to see, which is a significant slowing in economic growth," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston in New York. "And therefore they are likely to hike interest rates at their next meeting and possibly another couple of times before the end of the year."
In a separate report, the Labor Department said today that first-time claims for state unemployment insurance rose 3,000, to a level of 302,000. Also, the Conference Board's index of help-wanted advertising rose 2 points, to 89, in May.
May's increase in durable good orders was led by a 9.5 percent gain in orders for all types of transportation equipment. Orders for civilian aircraft rose 37.8 percent, the first increase since a 137 percent surge in January. Excluding transportation equipment, orders fell seven-tenths of a percent in May after rising nine-tenths of a percent in April and 2.3 percent in March.
Manufacturing is "making its way back," said Bryan Jordan, economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. "Slowly but surely, the world economy is starting to make its way back. Exports are slowly starting to pick up."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Ordered" plots manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, from Dec, 1997 through May 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); CONFERENCE BOARD JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); CONFERENCE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING; NEWSPAPERS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE DURABLE GOODS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (50%); 

PERSON: D BRYAN JORDAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



514 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: China to Get World Bank Loan Despite U.S. Objections

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24

 BODY:
The World Bank overruled the United States today and approved a $160 million antipoverty loan for China. However, it agreed to delay financing for the resettlement of 58,000 farmers in a traditionally ethnic Tibetan area until an independent review board determines whether the program meets the bank's environmental and resettlement standards.
The decision to postpone payment for that portion of the loan was in part a last-minute effort by the president of the World Bank, James D. Wolfensohn, to keep the United States from opposing the loan. 
 In a phone call Wednesday evening, however, Mr. Wolfensohn apparently failed to convince the Treasury Secretary-designate, Lawrence H. Summers, that American objections to the resettlement program had been fully addressed. The United States, in an unusual breach between the Bank and its largest shareholder, still voted against the project, as did Germany.
Rarely has such a small World Bank program, especially one aimed at helping some of the world's poorest farmers, attracted such controversy. In this case, the plan to move farmers who earn roughly $40 a year to more fertile land ran afoul of objections from pro-Tibetan groups, whose cause -- autonomy or independence for Tibet -- has become a rallying call for opponents of China's Communist Government.
The groups said that the voluntary resettlement of the farmers would dilute the population of ethnic Tibetans in western Qinghai province, which lies on the Tibetan Plateau north of the Tibet Autonomous Region. The farmers, about 40 percent of whom are ethnic Chinese and the remainder Hui Muslim and other minority groups, would be moved from the northeastern part of Qinghai.
Statistics compiled by the World Bank and the State Department suggest that, in fact, the ethnic composition of the area would not change radically. But the issue quickly caught the attention of Congress, came up during Mr. Summers' confirmation hearings, and became enmeshed in the tensions between Washington and Beijing.
World Bank officials said today that they expected the program would ultimately go ahead, but only after substantial modifications to assure that several environmental objections have been addressed -- and to insure that China does not use the program to dilute the presence of Tibetans in the area.
"Even the harshest critics of China should prefer this solution to having the entire project canceled," Mr. Wolfensohn said in an interview this afternoon, after he had flown back from a trip to Europe to quell the dispute over the project.
"China didn't need our $40 million to resettle these farmers," he said, referring to the portion of the loan that would go to this move. "But now they have agreed to a further study, and to allow foreign visitors into the area, unattended by Chinese officials, to assess what is happening. That is a big breakthrough."
Mr. Wolfensohn's proposal for an independent inspection of the project by a three-member fact-finding body, appointed by the bank's board, was supported by the Chinese Government. But only hours earlier, Beijing had accused Washington of interfering in Chinese domestic affairs by seeking to block the project.
A spokeswoman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Zhang Qiyue, said that the American concerns were politically motivated "on the pretext that this will undermine the status of Tibetans."
The compromise, however, apparently did not convince either pro-Tibetan groups or the United States. They said that the project had been rushed through the Bank's review process, largely because later this month China will lose its eligibility for the 40-year-long, no-interest loans provided to the world's poorest nations. Now classified as a richer country, China will have to compete for loans at interest rates closer to what commercial banks charge.
The Clinton Administration insists that, in its haste, the Bank never conducted satisfactory environmental studies of the effects of moving the farmers. But the real objections centered on the concern that the Tibetan influence in the region would be watered down.
"We feel this project never should have gone to the board," said John L. Ackerley, the president of the International Campaign for Tibet. "We don't think the bank has any business diluting ethnic populations."
The bank argues that its poverty reduction program would benefit 1.7 million of China's poorest people. It was designed, the bank said, to help farmers escape eroded lands where malnourishment is common. It would also improve health, education and employment opportunities for people in some of the country's most inaccessible villages, bank officials said, by providing farmers with seeds and fertilizers, basic roads and clean drinking water.
And, though the bank never says so, it also provides Western aid workers and observers with an outpost in a remote and politically sensitive corner of the country.
"These are some of the best projects in the bank," said Mr. Wolfensohn, an Australian-born former investment banker who was appointed to his post by the Clinton Administration. "I've seen barren areas transformed to look like they are as lush as Switzerland."
After the independent board reports its findings, the bank's board of directors will determine whether to release the $40 million portion of the loan that was frozen today. The United States has about 18 percent of the voting power on the board. But apart from Germany, it had no allies today in its effort to stop the China loan.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); TIBET (95%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); QINGHAI, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TIBET; UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); TIBET (95%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (56%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); QINGHAI, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INSPECTIONS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); STATISTICS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



515 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: American Steel Imports Rose 30% in May

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24

 BODY:
Steel imports into the United States jumped 30 percent in May, the Commerce Department said today, two days after the Senate rejected a quota bill partly on the ground that imports were headed down.
Whether the May numbers will give new life to quotas is unclear. Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, who had argued that quotas could start an international trade war, said the latest figures should not be cause for worry. 
 "One month is not reason to suddenly believe it's a trend," he said. "We didn't gloat on the month-to-month basis when a one-month statistic showed a drop in imports."
But Representative Ralph Regula, Republican of Ohio, chairman of the House steel caucus, said of the report, "This just demonstrates that predictions that the steel crisis is over were premature at best."
May's increase was the second in seven months. The Commerce Department said it was driven primarily by shipments from Brazil, Mexico and Russia.
Foreign countries shipped three million metric tons of steel to the United States in May, according to the preliminary figures. That was 30 percent higher than the final 2.3 million figure for April, but still 18 percent below November's levels.
From Jan. 1 through May, steel imports totaled 12.4 million metric tons, only a slight increase from the 12.3 million metric tons imported during the corresponding period in 1997, before the Asian economic crisis lowered demand for steel and persuaded foreign producers to find outlets in a healthy American economy. In the corresponding period of 1998, the imports totaled 13.2 million metric tons. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; QUOTAS; LAW AND LEGISLATION IMPORT TRADE (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); 

PERSON: RALPH REGULA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



516 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Rising Costs Pushing Film Production Abroad, Study Says

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 24

 BODY:
About 27 percent of American movies and television series made last year were filmed outside the United States to save money, costing the nation the equivalent of 23,500 full-time jobs and more than $10 billion, according to a study being released on Friday by two Hollywood unions.
The report, commissioned by the Directors Guild of America and the Screen Actors Guild, is apparently the first to try to quantify the extent of "runaway production," the movement of film making to lower-cost countries that many film industry workers say has cost them their jobs. Both unions have hired Washington lobbyists and are expected to use the study's results to push for Federal tax breaks to keep film production in the United States. 
 The report said that 34 percent of television productions last year were made outside the United States for cost reasons, as opposed to script requirements, up from 14 percent in 1990. Most of that increase came from movies made for television. About 139 films, or 45 percent of television films, were made outside the United States in 1998, virtually all of them in Canada. The number of television series and miniseries -- each of which was counted as one production -- made abroad for cost reasons was 46 in 1998, or about 35 percent of the total number of series.
About 19 percent of theatrical films last year were made abroad for cost reasons, mostly low-budget movies. Still, that was up from 14 percent in 1990. And 24 movies with budgets of more than $25 million were made outside the United States in 1998, compared with none in 1990.
"We're starting to witness an accelerating trend here," said Mark Lubkeman, the project leader at the Monitor Company in Cambridge, Mass., which conducted the study. "We're starting to see some larger productions start to run away."
The economic effect, however, is considerably smaller than the percentage of productions would suggest because television movies have lower budgets than series or feature films. About $2.8 billion was spent abroad on such productions in 1998 out of a total production budget of $17.6 billion for the films and television series surveyed. Including indirect effects of the lost spending, the study estimated a loss to the nation's economy of $10.3 billion out of a total economic impact of $74.3 billion.
The report said that producing in Canada was about 25 percent less expensive than in the United States because of tax incentives and the weak Canadian dollar. Some studio executives say that union contracts are partly responsible for the high costs in the United States, but Mr. Lubkeman said that even if wages were cut significantly it would not erase the cost gap with Canada.
Getting tax breaks in Washington could be difficult because of the controversy over violent movies. Moreover, the report itself notes that movie and television production has continued to grow in the United States.
To gain support in Washington, the unions are trying to show that runaway production is a problem for the whole nation. The report said that Los Angeles and New York had experienced growth in film making over the last few years while North Carolina, Washington, Texas and Illinois, which rely on low-budget productions, had seen significant cutbacks.
Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, which represents the large studios, said today that he had not seen the report. But he said that some productions had always gone abroad and that the movement to Canada could reverse if the Canadian dollar strengthened. Also, some of the job pressures being felt by film workers came from cutbacks in the number of films being made.
Mr. Valenti said he would favor investment tax credits for production in the United States but cautioned that Hollywood could not be too nationalistic because 42 percent of its revenue now comes from foreign markets. "We can't say, 'We want to enter your market but we won't let our people produce in your country,' " he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DIRECTORS GUILD OF AMERICA; SCREEN ACTORS GUILD DIRECTORS GUILD OF AMERICA (84%); DIRECTORS GUILD OF AMERICA (84%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (83%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIRECTORS GUILD OF AMERICA; SCREEN ACTORS GUILD DIRECTORS GUILD OF AMERICA (84%); DIRECTORS GUILD OF AMERICA (84%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (83%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; FINANCES; LABOR; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (95%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); FILM (92%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TAX LAW (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (73%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



517 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Fed's Measure;
Focus Shifts to the Central Bank's Long-Term Agenda

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24

 BODY:
Is it 1994 all over again, the beginning of a prolonged series of interest rate increases intended to wring inflationary pressures out of an economy that is threatening to overheat?
Or is it 1997, when the Federal Reserve bumped interest rates up once just to let everyone know it was on the case, and then let the economy go on its rip-roaring way? 
 Economists and investors are all but certain that the Fed will push its benchmark lending rate up by a modest quarter of a percentage point next week in a pre-emptive strike against the possibility of resurgent inflation. And while neither 1994 nor 1997 provides a precise analogy for the current situation, what everyone wants to know is whether the central bank will be content with a tap or two on the monetary brakes to reassert its inflation-fighting credibility, or whether the Fed will embark on a more vigorous series of rate increases.
Uncertainty about the Fed's intentions could be seen on Wall Street today, where stock and bond prices fell on concern that next week's likely rate increase will not be the last.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, hinted in Congressional testimony last week that the central bank itself did not know yet how far it would have to go to deny inflation a foothold, and would decide based on how the economy performed in coming months.
"What we try to do is make the best judgments we can at the particular time that we meet, or if it is relevant, between meetings," Mr. Greenspan told the Joint Economic Committee. "I don't recall ever having a sense that we are going to do a series of increases or decreases."
Still, assuming no significant acceleration or slowdown in economic activity the next few months, the odds now seem to favor an in-between scenario in which the Fed tightens its benchmark Federal funds target rate by a quarter-point next week, to 5 percent, and then perhaps once more by another quarter-point later in the summer, before shifting back into neutral.
Although the economy has repeatedly proved to be far stronger than analysts predicted the last several years, many economists think the combination of two modest rate increases by the Fed, combined with the rise the last few months in long-term rates set by the bond market, should be enough to slow the economy to a point where inflation recedes as a threat.
"The view the market has now, and we agree with it, is that another rate hike is coming, but that this round of tightening will not have to be aggressive," said James Glassman, an economist at Chase Securities in New York. "The market now seems priced for another quarter-point move in August, and that's it for a while until we see how things work out."
The judgments made by Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues in coming months will be among the trickiest they have faced in several years. While they now appear comfortable shifting their attention from global financial conditions back to the situation in the United States, Mr. Greenspan in particular will have to balance his oft-expressed belief in the inflation-dampening power of increased productivity against his fear of endangering the domestic price stability of the last few years.
For all the obvious comparisons, policy makers may draw little guidance from their experiences raising rates in 1994 and 1997. While the Fed, for example, also acted in 1994 to head off inflation before it took root, it started at a time when monetary policy was far looser than it is today. The Fed funds rate stood at just 3 percent when, in February 1994, the central bank made the first of seven increases that over the course of a year doubled the rate to 6 percent.
The Fed's immediate goal this time around is not so much to squelch inflation, because there is almost no inflation, as it is to head off the forces that can create inflation. Although a rebound in oil prices has helped push the Consumer Price Index up somewhat this year, the one-month spike in April of seven-tenths of a percent is now widely viewed as an aberration, and by most measures prices remained stable last month.
"For the time being, inflation remains exceptionally quiescent, with the year-over-year increase in consumer prices, excluding food and energy, falling to 2.1 percent, the lowest rate in more than 30 years," economists at Goldman, Sachs told clients in a report this week.
The Fed's somewhat more nebulous target is demand for goods and services, which has been running at consistently robust levels. In the view of most Fed officials, the combination of strong demand growth and extremely low unemployment is potentially combustible. Left unchecked, they say, strong demand will force companies to bid up wages to find the employees they need in a dwindling pool of available workers -- and rising wages could ultimately lead companies to raise prices, setting off an inflationary spiral.
But the trick for the Fed will be to temper demand without setting off a destabilizing rout on Wall Street, where ever-higher stock prices have left many consumers feeling flush and willing to spend. And the Fed will have to act in the face of opposition from some members of both parties who say the central bank is sacrificing jobs and wage increases in pursuit of a problem that does not exist.
"If we make policy on the basis of the fear of inflation, we will inevitably forgo the very benefits that have been so crucially important to working families these last three years," John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., told a news conference on Capitol Hill today.
One way that Fed officials and economists generally are framing the debate is to compare the economy and monetary policy last summer to conditions today.
Last summer, before the global financial crisis became acute and began threatening markets in the United States, the Fed's benchmark Federal funds target rate stood at 5.5 percent -- three-quarters of a percentage point higher than today's -- and the central bank was leaning toward pushing rates higher. Only the need to stabilize markets at home and around the world led the Fed to reverse policy and cut rates three times in the fall in quarter-point increments.
Now, with the global crisis apparently past and demand from both Europe and Japan likely to pick up, one camp of economists makes the case that if a Fed funds rate of 5.5 percent or higher was appropriate last summer, it is appropriate now.
After all, unemployment, which was 4.5 percent last August, has declined to 4.2 percent. Growth in gross domestic product, which was 3.7 percent in the summer quarter last year, jumped to 6 percent later in the year and remained a torrid 4.1 percent in this year's first quarter. And the Dow Jones industrial average, which stood at around 8,500 just before the financial crisis flared last August, closed today at 10,534.83, a jump of nearly 24 percent.
John H. Makin, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, said a series of rate increases now could be seen as a continuation of a tightening policy that began not last summer but as far back as March 1997, when the Fed pushed rates up by a quarter-point, to 5.5 percent. Only the initial outbreak of the Asian crisis in the summer of 1997 and the steady spread of financial problems around the world the next year, he said, kept the Fed from tightening further in that period.
"This string of unprecedented financial shocks can be viewed as an interruption in a Fed process of tightening in response to strong U.S. demand growth initiated over two years ago," Mr. Makin said in a recent report. "Given that it was on track to tighten in spring 1997, the Fed would be reasonable to contemplate taking back the 75 basis points of easing last fall in response to systemic risk."
But another group of economists, influenced in part by Mr. Greenspan, points out that the economy today is not the same as last summer's -- that the most significant changes since then are an increase in the growth of productivity, or output for each hour worked, and a deceleration in the pace of wage increases despite the declining unemployment rate.
Both factors suggest that the economy is less inflation prone than it was last summer. The rise in productivity means companies can offset cost increases with improved efficiency rather than price increases. And the drop-off in wage growth suggests that workers are not using the leverage of a tight labor market to win big raises, possibly because of a deeply ingrained fear that they could lose their jobs to global competition and possibly because employers are compensating workers with performance-based bonuses.
"There's less skepticism now than last summer about the favorable inflation outlook," Mr. Glassman said. "The more we see what's happening around the globe, and the more we see what's happening with productivity, the more open-minded people are about the economy's ability to sustain low inflation. That argues that the Fed does not have to push rates back up to where they were."
Mr. Greenspan made clear in his Congressional testimony last week that his primary concern is not the heady level of the stock market, as worrisome as that is to him, but the possible effect of continued strong domestic demand on wages.
But it is difficult to make an ironclad case these days that rising wages will lead to a general increase in prices. So far, productivity gains have more than offset rising wages and other costs. The problem, as Mr. Greenspan has noted repeatedly, is that policy makers cannot count on productivity growth to continue to improve forever. At some point, the productivity growth rate could level off, or wage growth could accelerate, and the seeds of inflation would then take root in the form of rising cost structures within companies.
Yet even if that happens, it is by no means certain that companies will be able to pass on their higher costs to consumers because competition is so intense that producers have proved to be willing to give up profits to maintain or gain market share.
Moreover, there is little evidence of any acceleration in wage increases in the first place.
"The pressure on labor costs is milder than we thought it would be, despite the fact that the economy is stronger," said Richard D. Rippe, an economist at Prudential Securities in New York.
Mr. Rippe said there were other reasons why the Fed was unlikely to raise rates aggressively the rest of the year. The domestic economy is already showing some tentative signs of slowing.
While the global crisis appears past, the recoveries in many countries are fragile and could be hurt by higher rates in the United States. And Mr. Rippe said the Fed would like to avoid driving the value of the dollar higher, which would be likely if interest rates in the United States rose substantially. While a stronger dollar would help contain inflation by holding down import prices, it could also lead to a further expansion of the trade deficit, which is not yet a major problem but could ultimately become one.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.; Representative Maxine Waters of California; Representative Maurice Hinchey of New York; Judith Lichtman of the National Partnership for Women and Families; Kweisi Mfume, president of the N.A.A.C.P.; Representative Bruce Vento of Minnesota, and Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts at a news conference about a rate increase. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. C7)
 
Photos/Chart: "Fait Accompli?"
Some recent comments on the state of the economy and the outlook for monetary policy by voting members of the Federal Open Market Committee, which is expected to raise its benchmark interest rate by a quarter point at its meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday.
 
Alan Greenspan
Chairman, Federal Reserve Board
"For the period immediately ahead, inflationary pressures still seem well contained . . . But should labor markets continue to tighten, significant increases in wages, in excess of productivity growth, will inevitably emerge . . ." (Associated Press)
 
Laurence H. Meyer
Governor, Federal Reserve Board
"Even with generous allowances for structural change, labor utilization would seem to be at a level that might eventually begin to put persistent and growing pressure on labor costs and prices." (Amy Thompson for The New York Times)
 
Robert D. McTeer Jr.
President, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
"The thing is that productivity increases have been so strong lately that even though wages have been going up nicely, labor costs have not."
 
William J. McDonough
President, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
"The issue is the potential for inflation, which, if allowed to break out, is destructive to the economy." (Reuters)(pg. C1)
 
Graphs: "Reading the Signs"
Growth is strong and unemployment is declining but healthy productivity increases have helped keep inflation down, providing mixed signals to the Federal Reserve as it considers an interest rate increase. Graphs plot Yearly change of the consumer price index, plotted monthly, annual rate of change in G.D.P., based on quarterly figures, seasonally and inflation adjusted, annual rate of change in the index of output per hour of all nonfarm businesses and the Civilian unemployment, monthly, from 1997 through 1999. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Commerce Department)(pg. C1)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;;NATIONAL PARTNERSHIP FOR WOMEN AND FAMILIES; NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE CENTRAL BANK & TRUST CO (90%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (90%); NATIONAL PARTNERSHIP FOR WOMEN & FAMILIES (84%); AFL-CIO (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;;NATIONAL PARTNERSHIP FOR WOMEN AND FAMILIES; NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL PARTNERSHIP FOR WOMEN & FAMILIES (84%); AFL-CIO (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY; UNEMPLOYMENT; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFLATION (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); BOND MARKETS (72%); TESTIMONY (66%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN; MEYER, LAURENCE H; MCTEER, ROBERT D JR; MCDONOUGH, WILLIAM J; SWEENEY, JOHN J; WATERS, MAXINE (REPR); HINCHEY, MAURICE D (REPR); LICHTMAN, JUDITH; MFUME, KWEISI; VENTO, BRUCE (REPR); FRANK, BARNEY (REPR) ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); BARNEY FRANK (69%); MAURICE D HINCHEY (64%); MAXINE WATERS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



518 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Student Strike in Capital Jarring All of Mexico

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 24

 BODY:
The student strike at Mexico's biggest university began on April 20 as a protest against a plan by the administration to make those who could afford it pay tuition.
Seven long weeks later, the university's president, Francisco Barnes de Castro, admitted defeat and agreed to make all tuition payments voluntary. 
 Most people thought that would put an end to the protests, but to the shock of the administration, the strikers at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, the largest institution of higher education in Latin America, were still not satisfied.
The strike, which closed down classrooms for 270,000 students, is now in its third month and shows no sign of moving towards resolution. Mobilizations for and against it have spilled over from the campus into the streets of the capital city. The strike movement has escaped the control of national political and intellectual leaders.
A sizable core of angry students are seeking to use the strike to gain new power within the university and resist Mexico's decade-old shift away from a costly welfare state towards lean government and private enterprise. Many of Mexico's most prominent scholars, however, have turned against the shutdown and warned that it could permanently cripple the university.
Today President Ernesto Zedillo made it clear that the strike at the university, known by its Spanish initials as the U.N.A.M., has become a pressing national concern. He called it "brutal aggression" against the university that is "hurting the enormous majority who want to study to get ahead." But Mr. Zedillo said he would continue to support the administration in seeking to solve the strike peacefully.
Mr. Barnes's original plan was to require U.N.A.M. students with economic means to pay about $150 tuition for a year. The current fees amount to only a few cents. But even though a governing council at the university voted to cancel any obligatory tuition payments, the strikers refused to lift the shutdown until all fees were eliminated. Many financially-strapped departments collect small fees for the use of laboratories and computers.
The strikers are also demanding elimination of recently-instituted admission and graduation examinations, and lifting of the limits on the time students can remain enrolled before graduating. They also want to restore automatic admission for students from a network of high schools linked to the U.N.A.M., which was canceled in 1995.
Their most ambitious demand is to convene a congress to "refound" the U.N.A.M., giving students equal power in decisions with the administration and faculty.
"For us, education is not a commercial service -- it is one of the social rights we won in Mexico over the last decades," said Higinio Munoz, a science major who is a spokesman for the students' strike committee. "Now the Government wants to take that away from us with a stroke of the pen."
Both sides resorted this week to public displays of strength. On Wednesday some 15,000 high-spirited strikers, many with their faces grease-painted in the red and black strike colors, broke into the university stadium and held a rally to proclaim their determination to continue the shutdown.
At one point two dozen young men stood up in a chorus line in the bleachers, each with a letter painted on his naked chest forming the words "Long live the strike!" They raised a frenzy of approval when they turned around, spelling a vulgar insult to the mother of the university president, Mr. Barnes.
Also on Wednesday a group of faculty women at the university hung banners from overpasses on a major highway through the capital, calling on drivers to turn on their headlights if they opposed the strike. Thousands of cars lit up.
This morning another student crowd, slightly smaller and more heavily middle class than the crowd of strikers, turned out in a central plaza downtown to call for the strike to end.
"We have already done our part," Mr. Barnes told them in a resolute speech. "We already reached the agreements that could end this conflict. There are no more excuses. The strike has got to stop."
In a communique marking the end of two months of the strike on June 22, the protest leaders laid out their worldview, at once cocky and defensive. They described Mr. Barnes and the Mexican Government as tools of a campaign by global organizations like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to destroy public education in Mexico.
They accused the administration of building a "repressive police apparatus" within the U.N.A.M., pointing to a network of video cameras recently installed around the campus. Administration officials said the cameras were to help combat the wave of common crime which has swept the capital city.
The strike has become a problem for Cuauhtemoc Cardenas Solorzano, the left-of-center opposition Mayor of Mexico City, who is expected to run for president in national elections next year.
At first, leaders of Mr. Cardenas's Party of the Democratic Revolution, several of whom were once student activists themselves, openly supported the strike, although they denied that they aided it with resources from the city government.
But on June 10 the strikers, led by some of their most militant leaders, went outside the U.N.A.M. campus in street marches that snarled traffic for hours on several of Mexico City's busiest thoroughfares. Many city residents, already skeptical about the strike, were furious at Mr. Cardenas, believing that he encouraged the disruption.
Mr. Cardenas and other leaders of his party seem to have lost the influence over the strikers they once enjoyed. Increasingly, the huge all-night assemblies where the students decide their moves have been dominated by activists from small socialist groups, dubbed "ultras" by other students within the strike movement.
Thousands of students continued their studies in off-campus classrooms.
University officials said that at least 162,500 students, or about 65 percent of the undergraduates, were able to complete their work for the semester.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protest leaders at Mexico's largest university seek more power for students and oppose Mexico's shift away from the welfare state. At a rally yesterday backing an end to the strike, two strikers voiced their opposition. The university president Francisco Barnes at a rally yesterday. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AUTONOMOUS UNIVERSITY (MEXICO) UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTONOMOUS UNIVERSITY (MEXICO) UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; STRIKES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; TUITION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); STRIKES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); RIOTS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA; BARNES DE CASTRO, FRANCISCO FRANCISCO BARNES DE CASTRO (83%); ERNESTO ZEDILLO (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



519 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Some Doctors See Relief In Plan for A.M.A. Union

BYLINE: By EMILY YELLIN 

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, June 24

 BODY:
The weekly managers' meetings at the Family Physicians Group, a private practice here, almost always include a lot of angry discussion about the increasing frustrations of dealing with health maintenance organizations and other managed-care insurance companies.
But at this morning's meeting, the anger was tempered by hope, said Dr. Charles J. Woodall, the group's medical director, in light of the American Medical Association's decision on Wednesday to form a union for doctors. 
 Doctors have long been hamstrung "by managed-care regulations that require needless procedures and don't cover useful procedures," Dr. Woodall said. "So I am quite pleased that the A.M.A. has taken it upon themselves to bring these problems to the forefront."
None of the doctors in his group could join an A.M.A. union because they do not work for health maintenance organizations or hospitals.
But Dr. Woodall said the A.M.A. move signaled a push by doctors across the country to address growing feelings of helplessness in the face of managed-care restrictions on services doctors are permitted to provide, and the accompanying paperwork the companies require for simple procedures. In the past five years, he said, his group of 15 doctors has hired 42 employees who deal solely with the paperwork required by managed-care companies.
Dr. Woodall said of the A.M.A.'s decision, "It's a start, and the fact that the A.M.A., a credible national organization, has stepped in shows that these are far-reaching problems which don't just affect doctors in larger cities and larger states, but now affect doctors in places like Memphis and rural Tennessee and Mississippi."
Barry Levine, 59, an internist at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, also supported the A.M.A. "We're fighting to control the control that the insurance companies have over us," he said. "We really do need some representation, or it's going to be the M.B.A. types who are telling us how to practice medicine."
But not all doctors interviewed today agreed that a union would solve their problems.
"I don't think the unions are the prescription," said E. William Rosenberg, 69, a Memphis dermatologist and professor of medicine at the University of Tennessee medical school. "I don't think the unions are the illness either. I think they're a symptom of the changing economics of medical care. And while I'm not opposed to them, I don't think they are the answer."
Jack Needleman, an assistant professor of economics and health policy at the Harvard School of Public Health, also questioned unionization.
"I see the unionization push as a first-cut response to a very real set of problems for the profession in terms of economic power," Dr. Needleman said. "It just doesn't feel to me like it will be ultimately the response that prevails."
In California, where doctors' unions have long been in place, Charles Goodman, 40, a pediatrician in private practice in the West Hills section of Los Angeles, joined the Union of American Physicians and Dentists, a 6,000-member division of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, about one and a half years ago.
"It has been a good idea for me and a direct help for many of my patients as well," Dr. Goodman said.
As with roughly two-thirds of the 620,000 practicing physicians in the nation, the A.M.A. union will not be able to bargain on Dr. Goodman's behalf because he is in private practice and bargaining for him would violate antitrust laws. But he said his union had helped him and his patients in other ways.
"If I have a problem with an H.M.O., I can ask a union to step up to bat for me," he said. "When the union calls, the H.M.O.'s take it a little more seriously. It gives you more clout than if you were alone against these enormous multibillion-dollar companies."
As a fourth-year resident at the University of Tennessee Medical Center in Memphis, Cindy Woodall would qualify for membership in an A.M.A. union.
"I am learning to be a doctor in this world of managed care, and it has kind of burst my bubble to see how it works against the patients," Dr. Woodall said. "So if a union could address that and help us provide better care for our patients, then I would definitely want to join." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (96%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; LABOR UNIONS; UNIONIZATION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); DERMATOLOGY (73%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: YELLIN, EMILY CHARLES J WOODALL (82%); CHARLES GOODMAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



520 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Courtroom Testimony Ends In Microsoft Antitrust Case
The heated accusations of monopoly, the lively E-mail flavored with capitalist aggression and the spirited testimony alleging and denying misconduct came to a close as the last witness stepped off the stand in Microsoft's antitrust trial, eight months after proceedings began.
The Government argues that it has more than proved its case, but Microsoft, while conceding that the Justice Department put on an impressive performance, says the facts do not add up to a violation of antitrust rules. The legal reckoning that matters, however, will be made by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, who will rule without a jury. Page A1.
 
A Government lawyer introduced as evidence a comment by William H. Gates, Microsoft's chairman, that knocked the legs out from under his legal team's most important defensive strategy. C4.
 
Unraveling Mystery in Fraud Case
The story of Martin R. Frankel begins in Toledo, Ohio, and goes through the South and into Connecticut, where his trail disappears. He is suspected of looting insurance companies of $335 million, wiring the money abroad and leaving behind notes that show he was seeking a foreign country that does not have an extradition treaty with the United States. A1.
 
Rumors Swirling on Internet Deals
A recent spate of rumored Internet combinations shows the menagerie of potential products and deals that companies and investors must face to find a few that might pay off someday. Compaq Computer confirmed that it was interested in trading its Alta Vista Internet service for stock in CMGI. The computer maker Gateway declined to comment on speculation that it would buy Earthlink, an Internet service. And those rumors forced Mindspring, another Internet service, to publish a cryptic statement that it was in talks about possible combinations. Market Place. C9.
 
Morgan Stanley Beats Forecasts
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, demonstrating strength in its securities trading and credit card businesses, posted second-quarter results that beat analysts' expectations. C3.
 
Interest Rates Push Stocks Lower
Stocks tumbled as long-term interest rates jumped. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 132.03 points, or 1.24 percent, to 10,534.83. The Nasdaq composite index fell 44.13 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,553.99, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 17.28 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,315.78. C9.
 
Pearson to Sell Lazard Holdings
The British media company Pearson said that it was selling its holdings in three Lazard investment houses in a deal that analysts said would enable both Pearson and Lazard to become more competitive by focusing more closely on their primary businesses. C2.
 
New Editor at Harper's Bazaar
Katherine Betts, left, the fashion news director at Conde Nast's Vogue, who was the heir apparent to Anna Wintour, resigned and will take over as editor in chief of Harper's Bazaar on Sept. 1. The announcement ends months of speculation in the notoriously gossipy magazine world about whom Cathleen P. Black, the president of Hearst Magazines, would choose as editor. C3.
 
Film and TV Work Moving Overseas
About 27 percent of American movies and TV series made last year were filmed outside the United States to save money, costing the nation the equivalent of 23,500 full-time jobs and more than $10 billion, according to a study by two Hollywood unions. C7.
 
American Airlines Under Scrutiny
Federal safety officials plan to investigate why American Airlines has had more accidents in the last six years than any other major domestic carrier. A16.
 
Orders for Durable Goods Up 1.4%
Orders placed with factories for durable goods increased 1.4 percent in May, the second rise in three months, further evidence that manufacturing is pulling out of last year's slump, Government figures showed. C3.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,534.83 down 132.03
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.16% up 0.02
The Dollar -- 121.78 yen down 0.14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); PSON (LSE) (81%); PSO (NYSE) (81%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); PEARSON PLC (81%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); TESTIMONY (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (87%); WITNESSES (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EXTRADITION (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); INSURANCE (67%); COMPUTER MAKERS (66%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



521 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: $19.5 Billion Budget Set By Lawmakers in Trenton

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 24

 BODY:
Blessed with a robust economy and more than $450 million in unexpected revenues, the New Jersey Legislature today approved a $19.5 billion budget that provides modest property tax rebates, increases school spending and sets aside $98 million in state funds to preserve open space.
The budget, which was passed with relative ease, contains $358 million in additional spending over what Gov. Christine Todd Whitman proposed in January. It is 7.7 percent higher than the budget signed into law last July, but also includes a $778 million surplus, an increase over last year's $700 million surplus. 
 The Governor is expected to use her line-item veto to cut some of the $60 million in pet projects added by legislators and then sign the measure into law by the time the new fiscal year begins July 1.
"This has been a very collegial budgeting process, so I expect there will be very little use of the red pen," said Peter McDonough, the Governor's communications director. "But there will be some cuts."
Approval of the spending plan is the last significant action the Legislature is expected to take before beginning the summer recess next week. And while the Legislature will reconvene in September, lawmakers are unlikely to tackle any divisive issues until after the November elections, when all 80 members of the General Assembly face re-election.
The timely and relatively orderly passage of the budget comes in sharp contrast to the situation in Albany, where a standoff between Gov. George E. Pataki and Assembly Democrats has left the budget 85 days overdue with no resolution in sight.
The New Jersey State Constitution requires that legislators pass a balanced budget by the end of the fiscal year -- June 30 -- or face the dire political consequences of shutting down the government and laying off state workers. Unlike their counterparts in Albany, Trenton lawmakers have rarely missed that deadline in recent years and have been reluctant to use emergency spending bills to skirt a budget impasse and avert a shutdown.
The approval of New Jersey's budget marks the unofficial end of a turbulent legislative season in which lawmakers deregulated the state's $9 billion energy market and passed the first significant restrictions on abortion rights in New Jersey in nearly two decades.
Both the Senate and the General Assembly today gave final approval to the abortion measure, which requires parents to be notified before a girl under 18 can have an abortion. The Governor has said she intends to sign it into law. A co-sponsor of the parental notification bill, John E. Rooney, said the measure would help Republican Assembly candidates win votes from conservatives in November because it showed a concern for New Jersey families.
Despite a flurry of public pressure for gun control in the two months since the high school massacre in Littleton, Colo., legislators blunted an attempt to make New Jersey the first state to mandate that all handguns be equipped with computer chips that prevent them from operating for anyone but their owners.
Asserting that the so-called smart gun technology is not yet available, Republican legislative leaders have instead put forward compromise proposals to require trigger locks on all handguns and to encourage the development of smart guns without legally requiring them.
But the most dramatic and contentious debate of the session surrounded the Senate's confirmation vote on Governor Whitman's nominee to the State Supreme Court, former Attorney General Peter J. Verniero. For weeks, Democrats criticized the Governor's selection, saying that Mr. Verniero lacked the judicial experience. During two days of rancorous public hearings, Democratic Senators bitterly criticized Mr. Verniero for what they contended was his failure over two years to investigate complaints of systemic racial discrimination by state troopers.
After a furious lobbying campaign, Republicans rallied behind the Senate President, Donald T. DiFrancesco, and Mr. Verniero won approval by the narrowest of margins and without a single Democratic vote.
Governor Whitman today congratulated legislators on the budget and said she was gratified that the plan would help reduce local property taxes by providing $6.4 billion in school aid, an increase of $457 million. It will also grant $1.9 billion in municipal aid to New Jersey's local governments, including $40.5 million in emergency funds for the troubled cities of Camden, Jersey City, East Orange, Irvington and Paterson.
Lawmakers also set aside $6 million to pay for prenatal hospital care for immigrant mothers whose babies become United States citizens and dedicated $21 million to upgrade the firearms used by New Jersey State Troopers.
The biggest new expense is Governor Whitman's $170 million property tax rebate program, called New Jersey Saver, which will save homeowners an average of $120 this year. The program is scheduled to grow to $1 billion per year by 2004 and eventually offer homeowners a $600 annual rebate. But some Democratic leaders, voicing themes they are likely to repeat on the campaign trail, said they opposed the plan because it did not cut property taxes nearly enough.
Assemblyman Joseph V. Doria Jr., the Democratic minority leader, said that even with the rebate, New Jersey had the highest property taxes in the country. Assemblyman Joseph Charles Jr. said the $170 million reduction was insufficient because last year alone, New Jersey's property tax levy increased by $460 million.
"Our property taxpayers are being buried under an avalanche and this administration is tossing them a teaspoon to dig their way out," said Mr. Charles, of Jersey City, who voted against the plan.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elizabeth Volz, right, president of the National Organization for Women in New Jersey, and followers watched in disappointment yesterday as the Senate passed a parental notification bill on abortions. Richard Voorhees, the sergeant-at-arms, keeping track of bills being debated on the floor of the Assembly. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS BUDGETS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (77%); GUN CONTROL (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); ABORTION (64%); CIVIL SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (72%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (54%); EDDIE GEORGE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



522 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: City Board Approves Increases for Rent-Stabilized Apartments

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
The New York City Rent Guidelines Board voted 5 to 4 last night to approve a 2 percent increase for one-year leases and a 4 percent increase for two-year leases on rent-stabilized apartments, the same increases approved for four of the last five years.
The board sets rent increases for the approximately one million New York City apartments in buildings operating under rent stabilization, whose rules date back to 1943. 
 The vote by the board reflects a staff recommendation in May for 2 to 4 percent increases, which are tied to the Price Index of Operating Costs, a landlord price index compiled by the city. That measure, which reflects costs like heating oil, was 0.03 percent last year, down from 0.13 percent in 1997. Landlords criticize the index because they say it does not reflect long-term costs.
The meeting began with a protracted debate among board members, who include two landlord representatives and two tenant representatives, and was punctuated by the jeering of tenant advocates, who made up the majority of the hundred or so audience members and continually yelled, "Jerk," "Sleazy," and "You're insane!"
Edward S. Hochman, 46, the chairman of the rent guidelines board, expressed frustration with both the debate and the loud protest.
"The numbers legitimately made for a narrow range," Mr. Hochman said in an interview during a recess, referring to the landlord price index. "It was never going to go below 0 and never go above 2 percent for one-year leases, and never go below 1 and never go above 4 percent for two years. But tonight was like the Battle of Stalingrad, where the battle loses any real military purpose."
Mr. Hochman requested that two police officers stand at attention in front of the stage at the Grand Hall of Cooper Union and had a third officer circulate through the audience to request quiet.
Vincent S. Castellano, 37, a landlord and real estate broker from the Rockaways, in Queens, who is one of two landlord representatives on the board, said, "If you can't raise rents when economic times are good, when tenants are working, when income is going up, then when would you suggest we raise rents?"
Mr. Castellano cited city statistics that 116,000 jobs were created last year and personal income, adjusted for inflation, rose 3.5 percent. Meanwhile, apartment buildings continue to age, repairs continue to mount and become more expensive and the city government continues to impose new requirements, like fire sprinklers and removal of lead paint, he said.
David D. Pagan, 55, a tenant representative on the board and an administrator at the Southside United Housing Development Fund Corporation in Brooklyn, said the board vote was "extremely disappointing." He said the landlord price index was "next to nothing, and we were willing to give a little on the second year." He had proposed a 0 percent increase for one-year leases and 1.8 percent for two-year leases. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RENT CONTROL (94%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); APPROVALS (91%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); HEATING OIL (70%); JOB CREATION (60%); LEAD (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); LEAD PAINT (50%); 

PERSON: EDWARD S HOCHMAN (77%); VINCENT S CASTELLANO (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



523 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 
Kosovo Rebel Leaders Are Accused of Purges
Senior commanders of the Kosovo Liberation Army, who have signed an agreement with NATO to disarm, carried out assassinations, arrests and purges within their ranks to thwart potential rivals, say current and former commanders in the rebel force and Western diplomats. A1
 
 
Numerous violent incidents involving both Serbs and Albanians illustrate growing lawlessness in Kosovo as NATO tries to restore order. A14 

 
The American bombs that struck the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade on the night of May 7 destroyed the compound's intelligence-gathering nerve center, and two of the three Chinese who were killed were not journalists but intelligence officers, American officials and a Western diplomat said. A15
 
 
Richard C. Holbrooke, speaking at a Senate hearing on his nomination to be the chief American diplomat at the United Nations, defended his repeated dealings with President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. A15
 
Kosovo Update A14
 
Deadly Fighting in Lebanon
Israeli fighter planes bombarded power stations, guerrilla strongholds and bridges in Lebanon after Shiite Muslim guerrillas fired rockets into northern Israel. Two Israelis and six Lebanese were reported dead by early this morning, in a severe step-up in the conflict in southern Lebanon. A1
 
Iraq Prevails on U.N. Team
Experts from the United Nations special commission on disarming Iraq will not be included on a team of technical experts to be sent to Baghdad to dismantle a laboratory and remove small amounts of toxic substances left behind when the inspectors left the country in December. A5
 
China to Get World Bank Loan
The World Bank overruled the United States and approved a $160 million anti-poverty loan for China. But it will delay financing for the resettlement of 58,000 farmers in a traditionally ethnic Tibetan area. A12
 
Hong Kong Trade Concerns
Senate moves to tighten controls on exports to Hong Kong in response to a Congressional report on Chinese espionage have increased fears in the former British colony about its future as an Asian trading post. A13
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A16-21
 
House Votes to Curtail Seizures in Criminal Cases
An unusual coalition of liberals and conservatives persuaded the House to approve legislation, by a vote of 375 to 48, to make it much harder for Federal and state law enforcement to confiscate cash, boats, planes, houses and other property before criminal charges are brought in narcotics and other cases. The Senate has no similar legislation. The Administration criticized the bill. A1
 
Flag-Burning Amendment
The House voted, 305 to 124, for a constitutional amendment that would overturn a Supreme Court ruling that laws prohibiting desecration of the American flag are unconstitutional. The measure is expected to fall two fall two votes short of the required two-thirds majority in the Senate. A18
 
Medicare Proposal Misgivings
Medicare officials said they had told the White House that offering coverage of prescription drugs for a premium of no more than $25 a month was unrealistic. House Democrats said they had become nervous about the plan being drafted by President Clinton to revamp Medicare because they feared that the prospect of higher premiums could alarm elderly voters. A21
 
Inquiry Into Airline's Safety
The F.A.A. said it would investigate why American Airlines, the country's second-largest airline, had more accidents in the last six years than any other major domestic carrier. A16
 
U.S. Warning on Web Sites
The Federal Trade Commission said it had identified hundreds of Web sites promoting phony cures for ailments like AIDS, multiple sclerosis, liver disease and cancer. A16
 
Big Victory for Labor in South
Union organizers said workers at the Fieldcrest Cannon plant in Kannapolis, N.C., the nation's largest textile plant, had voted to allow a textile workers union to represent them. A16
 
The Human Internal Clock
Harvard University researchers report that, contrary to belief, humans keep time the same way other animals do, and that humans' intrinsic cycle averages 24.18 hours -- about 24 hours 11 minutes -- and differs little from person to person. A19
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Officer's Lawyers Say Evidence Was Withheld
Lawyers for Charles Schwarz, seeking a new trial for the former police officer, asserted that prosecutors had failed to turn over evidence showing that he had no role in the torture of Abner Louima. Two members of the jury that convicted him in the attack said the evidence would have created a reasonable doubt. B1
 
Officer Testifies in Defense
Officer Michael Meyer, who is charged with attempted murder, testified at his trial that he shot an unarmed squeegee man at a Bronx intersection last June because he "felt scared" during a confrontation. B3
 
Lead-Poison Bill Advances
A City Council committee approved legislation to clarify laws that are supposed to protect children from poisoning caused by lead paint. B1
 
Looking for Administrators
Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew has hired a private firm to help conduct a nationwide search to fill vacancies in the ranks of principals and superintendents that he created with his overhaul plan, officials said. B4
 
Rent Increases Approved
The New York City Rent Guidelines Board voted, 5 to 4, to approve a 2 percent increase for one-year leases and a 4 percent increase for two-year leases on rent-stabilized apartments, the same increases approved for four of the last five years. B3
 
WEEKEND E1-26; E27-40
 
Penn Station Preview at MOMA
A model of the proposed design for the new Pennsylvania Station will be on view at the Museum of Modern Art until Aug. 1, in a revival of the architectural Preview series. E33
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Knicks Coach Feeling Secure
Jeff Van Gundy, whose Knicks must beat the Spurs tonight to stay in contention for the N.B.A. title, said Dave Checketts, the president of Madison Square Garden, had assured him that his job was not in jeopardy. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
New Phase for Antitrust Trial
Testimony ended in the Microsoft antitrust trial, eight months after the proceedings began. Over the summer and fall, Microsoft and the Government will make further written and oral arguments to the judge, who is hearing the case without a jury. A1
 
Parental Control in Windows
Microsoft plans to include a feature in the next release of the Windows operating system that will let computer users determine what kinds of games can be played on the machine. Parents, for example, could use it to bar their children from playing games that contain violence, offensive language or nudity. C1
 
Gannett Wants British Chain
Gannett, which has 74 newspapers and 21 television stations in the United States, offered about $1.5 million in cash plus assumed debt for Newsquest, a regional newspaper publisher in Britain. Gannett's other foreign venture is the overseas edition of USA Today, which is printed in London, Frankfurt and Hong Kong and distributed in 60 countries. C1
 
Rising Rates Rattle Markets
Stocks tumbled as Wall Street reacted to a jump in long-term interest rates to the highest levels since late 1997 -- the yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury issue climbed to 6.16 percent. The Dow was down 132.03 points, or 1.24 percent, at 10,534.83; the S.& P. 500 lost 17.28 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,315.78, and the Nasdaq fell 44.13 points, or 1.70 percent, to 2,553.99. C9
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Unionized medicine; the Belgrade bombing mystery; Coca-Cola acts slowly but credibly; urban gorillas.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E36
 
TV Listings E25
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (93%); ALBANIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TIBET (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: XIZANG, CHINA (57%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (93%); ALBANIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TIBET (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (86%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); DISARMAMENT (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); APPROVALS (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); EXPORT CONTROLS (62%); TRADE DISPUTES (62%); LIBERALISM (60%); POWER PLANTS (52%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (52%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



524 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Drug Plan Worries Democrats

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24

 BODY:
Medicare officials said today that they had told the White House that its initial hope of offering coverage of prescription drugs for a premium of no more than $25 a month was unrealistic.
At the same time, House Democrats said they had become nervous about the plan being drafted by President Clinton to revamp Medicare, because they feared that the prospect of higher premiums could alarm elderly voters. 
 Medicare generally does not cover prescription drugs for people outside the hospital, even though elderly people fill an average of 18 prescriptions a year.
Federal health officials and actuaries who work for the Medicare program said the premium for new drug benefits would have to be at least as high as the existing premium for coverage of doctors' services, $45.50 a month.
House Democrats said they worried about being drawn into an election-year battle over details of the Medicare plan that Mr. Clinton intends to announce next week.
Senior House Democrats conveyed their concerns to John D. Podesta, the White House chief of staff, at a meeting on Wednesday night in the office of Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader. And they elaborated on their concerns in interviews today.
The lawmakers said they were frustrated at their inability to confirm details of the plan, even though they would be expected to defend it.
The gist of the Democrats' message, as described by one lawmaker, was: "Don't make us walk a plank that will blow up on us."
To date, White House officials have refused to rule out the idea of charging higher Medicare premiums to high-income beneficiaries. House Democrats said they had told Mr. Podesta that the President would be courting political disaster if he proposed "income-related premiums."
They said that such a proposal reminded them, and could remind many elderly voters, of the surtax that Congress adopted in 1988 as part of a bill to provide catastrophic health insurance coverage under Medicare. It provoked such an outcry from the elderly that it was repealed a year later.
Mr. Podesta and Gene Sperling, assistant to the President for economic policy, asked for the new cost estimates, which were prepared by Medicare actuaries led by Richard S. Foster, the chief actuary of the Health Care Financing Administration. The actuaries have sent many spreadsheets and tables to the White House in the last 10 days.
Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California, said the House Democrats had told the White House that Mr. Clinton's proposal, if not carefully designed, could create a ripe political target for Republicans and could damage Vice President Al Gore's Presidential hopes.
Our message to the White House was, 'Don't sell us out,' " Mr. Stark said. "I have heard from people inside the Administration, including high-level health-policy makers, who worry that the President will cut a deal with the Republicans on Medicare in October."
Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington, said: "If the President provides too many specifics, he will simply give the Republicans ammunition for an endless battle over the future of Medicare. That would be wasteful and stupid."
Since the President returned to the United States from Europe early Wednesday, White House aides have been scrambling to get his approval for details of his Medicare plan.
Joe Lockhart, the White House press secretary, said today that Mr. Clinton would announce his proposals next week even though there still remained several unresolved questions about the financing and the scope of benefits. Asked if the President's plan would be "comprehensive," Mr. Lockhart declined to characterize it that way.
Representative Rosa DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut, said, "I was delighted that Mr. Podesta came up to solicit our views, and I expressed my opinion that Medicare should not be means-tested in any way."
Likewise, Representative Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois, said, "The President's Medicare plan must not include premiums based on income, and must not increase out-of-pocket costs for seniors."
Ms. Schakowsky, a former director of the Illinois State Council of Senior Citizens, said she told Mr. Podesta: "Don't do it. It's bad policy, and it's very bad politics."
In 1989, elderly people from Ms. Schakowsky's group jeered Dan Rostenkowksi, then a Democratic Congressman from Illinois who was chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, because they held him responsible for the surtax, or "supplemental premium," that was to have financed prescription drug coverage for about one-sixth of Medicare's beneficiaries.
In the Senate, William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee, said today that he intended to move Medicare legislation through his committee this fall.
"He wants to put together a bipartisan Medicare bill," said Ginny Flynn, a spokeswoman for Mr. Roth. "He wants to include a drug benefit for the sickest elderly and for low-income elderly people."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HEALTH INSURANCE MEDICARE (95%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (79%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); AGING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN PODESTA (78%); AL GORE (58%); PETE STARK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



525 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Slaves, Stay Out

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
Very quietly, without a word about it on paper, the United Nations is creating a new human rights policy for the organization and putting it into operation one step at a time.
If it were a document, honestly and clearly written, it would read so: 
 "The U.N. will honor and from time to time try to uphold the human rights of oppressed countries and peoples -- provided that they have reasonable power of their own or effective help of nations with economic and military strength. If not, the U.N. will not be of use to victim-nations, and in some cases will increase the power of the oppressor."
In the past week alone, while still pondering the lessons of the war over Kosovo, the beneficiary of all-out Western support, the U.N. used its power against the interests of two of the most persecuted, isolated and abandoned peoples on earth -- one Asian, the other African.
In Washington, the World Bank, a U.N. agency that distributes low-interest loans to countries desperately in need of money for health care, food and water supplies and other causes, approved another loan to China, this one of $160 million.
Stated purpose: to help Chinese in particularly poor districts, and to move some of them to areas where they might live better. Of the 58,000 who would be moved, at a cost of $40 million, all would go from China to Tibet, the Qinghai area.
This infuriated supporters of Tibet and set off a dispute in the bank, headed by James D. Wolfensohn, a much-respected man in Washington.
Americans can take pride that the U.S. voted against the loan, joined only by Germany in the 24-nation bank board. The loan is the deliberate use of U.N. money that will speed the steady increase of the Chinese population of Tibet since the Chinese Communist invasion in 1949.
It is also a judgment that the occupation is permanent, worthy of international U.N. support. And it is one more shackle to the work of the Dalai Lama, since he fled Tibet in 1959, to keep Tibetan nationhood and religion strong in his people's hopes.
Tibet is claimed in its entirety by Beijing -- despite 3,500 years as a nation broken by a total of 400 years of domination by China, Mongolia and Britain.
No country except India, where he lives in refuge, has helped the Dalai Lama. By world leaders, Tibet is mentioned only for brief spurts of hypocrisy.
But enough people of good heart raised so much protest about the loan helping China occupy Tibet that the World Bank ordered an "inquiry" before the $40 million is actually spent. Mr. Wolfensohn said that the project would be entirely "transparent."
The delay does not satisfy Tibet's supporters, at all. But at least the protests tell Tibetans they are not alone, not entirely.
In Africa, a U.N. human rights committee removed voice and representation from Sudanese who have been defending themselves against their own Government. Khartoum is carrying out a civil and religious war aimed largely at Sudanese Christians and followers of native African religions.
The committee refused to hear the appeal of the resistance leader, John Garang. The offense was writing his request on his letterhead instead of the stationery of Christian Solidarity International, his sponsor for the meeting. Then the organization was disaccredited.
The Swiss-based group had the status of "non-governmental organization" at the U.N. Hundreds of such help organizations, each with a specialization in fields like medical relief, human rights, the welfare of children and aid to refugees, have a forum at the U.N. They are allowed to speak, but not vote, at specified U.N. committees or the special agencies that supervise U.N. action and spending in world health, banking, agriculture, aviation and other major U.N. fields.
Christian Solidarity International was impudent enough to prove the existence of slavery in Sudan by buying 1,000 people, and of course setting them free. By disaccrediting the organization the "human rights" committee established the penalty of ouster for incurably forthright groups, and for itself the punishment of infamy.
If allowed to stand, the decisions on Tibet and the Sudanese resistance will live on as a U.N. message to nations weak, isolated and persecuted: Slaves, stay out. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); TIBET (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (79%); MONGOLIA (79%); SUDAN (79%); GERMANY (53%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); QINGHAI, CHINA (57%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS BANK OF A LEVY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIBET; CHINA; SUDAN; CHINA (95%); TIBET (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (79%); MONGOLIA (79%); SUDAN (79%); GERMANY (53%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); QINGHAI, CHINA (57%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (87%); CIVIL WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); FOREIGN LENDING (67%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M DALAI LAMA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



526 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 4205 words

HEADLINE: A FUGITIVE'S PATH:A special report.;
Phantom Insurance Empire Yields Puzzles (and $335 Million Loss)

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN; Contributing to this report were: David Barboza, Bill Dedman, Kurt Eichenwald, Katherine E. Finkelstein, Alessandra Stanley and Joseph B. Treaster.

 BODY:
On April 28, with the sun setting outside their elegant Hilton Hotel conference suite in downtown Jackson, Miss., the key figures in what was, on paper, a vast philanthropic and insurance empire gathered together for the first and last time.
Those present included two Tennesseans who managed the Franklin American Corporation, operator of a string of insurance companies in five states. Also attending, after a long flight from Rome, were two elderly Roman Catholic priests representing the charitable foundation that owned the Franklin company. 
 The guest of honor, and the man who controlled the empire, was a pasty 44-year-old who variously introduced himself as a genius bond trader, a multimillionaire and an amateur student of Catholic theology. They had known him by different names -- including Eric Stevens and David Rosse -- but his real name was Martin R. Frankel. That day, he appeared in person for the first time to many people in the room.
None of the people at that meeting would ever see him again. Soon after that glimpse behind the curtain, Mr. Frankel's mystique, like that of the Wizard of Oz, melted away.
Mr. Frankel did not show up the next day when the group met Mississippi regulators in an attempt to persuade them that the companies' books were in order.
Days later, Federal prosecutors said in court records, Mr. Frankel wired as much as $334.6 million in insurance company money from Franklin American to foreign bank accounts, burned documents in one of his several mansions in Greenwich, Conn., and fled. He left behind notes that show he was researching which foreign countries have no extradition treaties with the United States.
Investigators suspect that Mr. Frankel looted at least seven insurance companies in several states of money they had given him to invest. While no charges have been brought against him, a warrant has been issued for his arrest in what the authorities believe is one of the largest insurance frauds in history.
Mr. Frankel also left behind a trail of questions that the authorities are still trying to answer. Why did so many people ignore what appeared, in hindsight, to be clear signals of fraud? Were the people who gathered at the Hilton unwitting dupes, as they or their lawyers now maintain, or did they have some inkling of what was going on? And, finally, where is Mr. Frankel?
Those mysteries will not be solved any time soon. But what does emerge from court documents and interviews with friends, business partners and neighbors is a picture of Mr. Frankel as a brazen but wily con man, a master puppeteer whose dealings spanned the globe, from Franklin, Tenn., to rarefied Lake Avenue in Greenwich, to the British Virgin Islands and the Vatican.
He began defrauding investors at least a decade ago and the authorities suspect he never stopped. Although he was investigated once, in 1991, by the Securities and Exchange Commission and agreed not to associate himself with the securities business again, he promptly disregarded that ban. And as he expanded his business reach, he drew in more and more characters.
His main and most recent target appeared to be the Vatican. Born to a middle-class family in Toledo, Ohio, he at times portrayed himself as a Jew interested in Catholicism. He flattered Catholic elites on both sides of the Atlantic and promised millions for Catholic charities to get into the good graces of the church hierarchy. He courted prominent Catholics, offering them trips on his private jet or tickets on the supersonic Concorde.
Perhaps most spectacularly, Mr. Frankel persuaded Msgr. Emilio Colagiovanni, who edits a Rome-based journal on canon law, to sign a sworn statement indicating that the Holy See financed and stood four-square behind an organization Mr. Frankel headed. Monsignor Colagiovanni acknowledged in an interview in Rome today that the statement was "misleading," but denied he had engaged in any wrongdoing or knew anything about the fraud.
In any case, the affidavit helped persuade the prominent law firm of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld to continue representing the foundation. The foundation hired the firm after it was introduced to its most famous partner, Robert S. Strauss, the former Democratic national chairman and former ambassador to the Soviet Union. Over time, the firm collected several hundred thousand dollars in fees working on possible acquisitions of insurance companies, none of which came to pass, according to a person who has reviewed the billings.
"Hundreds of people were conned by Marty Frankel, Eric Stevens, David Rosse -- whatever his name was," said Aubrey B. Harwell Jr., a Nashville lawyer who represents the two Tennessee businessmen who attended the April 28 meeting. "It's a classic Ponzi scheme."
There were plenty of red flags. Mr. Frankel mixed and matched his aliases so boldly that guests at his dinner parties in Greenwich sometimes knew him by different names. His intermingling of charity and commerce was befuddling to many who dealt with him. He bestowed gifts on friends so lavishly that many said they considered him reckless with his money, as if it did not belong to him.
Mr. Frankel also led an eccentric, even dark, personal life. He turned his luxury Greenwich estate into a fortress, traveled with a bevy of bodyguards when visiting his hometown. He met and lived with several women he found by trolling the Internet and scouring personal ads, according to a statement he gave Greenwich police after a woman was found hanged at one of his Connecticut homes in 1997.
 
The Childhood
A Prodigy Falls For Wall Street
Martin Richard Frankel was born on Nov. 21, 1954, into a middle-class family of lawyers and public servants. His father, Leon, worked as a referee at a domestic relations court in Toledo, and his mother, Tillie, was a clerk in the Toledo city government.
Marty, as he was known, was the youngest of four children. By all accounts, he was a bright youngster, even brilliant, friends say. Almost 6 feet tall, Mr. Frankel was thin, weighing 135 pounds, and, friends say, awkward and introverted.
"He didn't have many friends when he was growing up," said Bradford Dolgin, who attended Whitmer High School with Mr. Frankel. "He was pretty eccentric."
His political views were left-wing and unconventional, one faculty member recalled.
For all his high intelligence, though, friends and faculty members say Mr. Frankel had trouble finishing what he started. He seemed to have a phobia about taking exams, and rarely turned in class papers, they said.
He graduated from high school in three years, near the top of his class. But despite taking college courses at the University of Toledo in the late 1970's and early 1980's, he never earned a degree. His academic record is under privacy seal, at his request, according to the school's registrar.
It was during his college years that Mr. Frankel fell in love with Wall Street. No one knows exactly what touched off his interest in investments, but Mr. Frankel's passion for things financial soon became all-consuming.
"Marty was kind of a jack of all trades, master of none," said George J. Windau, a college friend of Mr. Frankel. "And then he became a master of one: the stock market, commodities, currencies."
He became a day trader, rapidly buying and selling stocks, often many times a day.
He took his first professional crack at the securities business at the Toledo branch of a New York brokerage firm, Dominick & Dominick. And he soon plunged into controversy. Details are sketchy, but John Schulte, who headed the branch, says that he dismissed Mr. Frankel in 1987 for failing "to produce."
Other tensions emerged between Mr. Schulte and Mr. Frankel. Mr. Schulte said his marriage with his wife, Sonia, fell apart and she began a long relationship with Mr. Frankel. According to police records, the three at times tussled over allowing Mr. Schulte time to visit his two daughters.
Those confrontations, friends say, caused Mr. Frankel to grow increasingly fearful that Mr. Schulte would retaliate against him. It was, some friends believe, one reason he left Toledo and turned to aliases.
Even before he left, friends and neighbors say he began to install security equipment at home and hired a man named David Rosse, who would later travel with him to Greenwich as his security guard and whose name Mr. Frankel would appropriate as his own.
When Mr. Frankel returned home last November for the funeral of his father, who died at the age of 87, he came with a small army of security guards. "It was like something out of a Mafia movie," Jon Frankel, a relative, told The Toledo Blade.
 
Early Failure
An Agreement to Stay Away From Securities
 By the late 1980's, Mr. Frankel had struck out on his own, setting up a money management firm he called Frankel Fund, which he operated from a room in his parents' home..
As the fund grew, he moved to West Palm Beach, Fla., seeking to strengthen his business with retirees. Friends say that he moved at the suggestion of Douglas I. Maxwell, a Tennessee man who formed a partnership with Mr. Frankel called PDS Securities Inc. The partnership raised at least $1 million for the Frankel Fund, according to securities regulators.
Jeff Creamer, the lawyer for two Ohio retirees who sued Mr. Frankel, said he boasted of living an extravagant life and of having attracted a Romanian queen and the king of Yugoslavia as investors. "He was a kind of Woody Allen character, kind of goofy," Mr. Creamer recalled. "It's kind of disarming."
But the venture did not last long. At least one of Mr. Frankel's clients raised questions and soon Mr. Frankel was back in Toledo, telling investors that his partner, Mr. Maxwell, had bungled their investments.
The Securities and Exchange Commission had another view. In 1992, it froze the accounts of the Frankel Fund. In an settlement, Mr. Frankel agreed to stay away from the securities industry forever as punishment for his having lied about the fund's performance, his own experience and even how the proceeds would be used.
The S.E.C. sanction proved to be merely a hiccup in Mr. Frankel's scheming, the authorities now believe.
At the same time the S.E.C. was cracking down on the Frankel Fund, Mr. Frankel was teaming up with John A. Hackney, a Tennessee bank executive, to buy insurance companies. It is an industry that is regulated by the states, not by Federal agencies like the S.E.C. Mr. Frankel appears to have picked as targets small, troubled insurance companies that were vulnerable to embezzlement.
Mr. Frankel and Mr. Hackney did not actually meet until eight years later, in the Mississippi hotel. But over the phone, Mr. Hackney became fast friends with the man he came to know as Eric Stevens, who portrayed himself as an experienced bond trader eager to employ a novel and lucrative trading strategy to improve the returns on insurance company assets, according to Mr. Harwell, Mr. Hackney's lawyer.
The lawyer said that Mr. Hackney was paid a straight salary for managing insurance companies that he bought on Mr. Frankel's behalf and had no other interest in Mr. Frankel's dealings.
Mr. Hackney did agree to steer the insurance companies' investment business to Mr. Frankel's Liberty National Securities.
To make their first acquisition, of the Franklin American Corporation, the two partners set up Thunor Trust, named after the Germanic god of thunder and lightning. Mr. Frankel's name was not associated with the trust, but several acquaintances are identified in state documents as investors who put up the $3.8 million in start-up funds.
They were Sonia Schulte, the Toledo girlfriend; Edward Krauss, a Frankel family friend who now lives in Columbus, Ohio, and Mark C. Shuki, an acquaintance from Chicago. Mr. Krauss said in an interview that he had nothing to do with Thunor and did not willingly lend his name. The others could not be reached for comment. It is unclear where the seed capital actually came from.
Thunor grew rapidly. In half a dozen transactions between 1993 and 1995, it acquired controlling stakes in at least seven insurance companies, including some based in Mississippi, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Missouri.
All of the companies sent their money to be invested by Mr. Frankel through his company, Liberty National. The address sounded impressive, 82 Wall Street, Dept. 1105, but it was just a mail drop. Mr. Harwell said Mr. Hackney was not aware of that fact.
Mr. Frankel's Liberty National appeared to be doing an outstanding job managing Franklin's assets, according to financial statements the securities firm sent to Mr. Hackney. When Franklin needed money back for some reason, Liberty National readily provided it.
"There was every appearance of legitimacy," Mr. Harwell said. They thought Mr. Frankel "was a guru," he said. The companies' statements from Liberty National showed they were earning outsized returns, as much as 25 percent more than average, on simple-sounding investments in United States Government bonds -- performance that would have been remarkable from Wall Street's perspective.
Liberty National was operating from Mr. Frankel's mansion in Greenwich. He moved to the wealthy New York suburb in 1991, around the same time he plunged into the insurance business. According to associates and neighbors, Mr. Frankel converted his home into a full-fledged trading floor, with 80 computers, satellite dishes and direct links to the New York Stock Exchange. He later bought another residence in the area.
But the major splash Mr. Frankel made had little to do with his reputed trading prowess.
One afternoon in August 1997, Arnold Courier, an elderly Greenwich resident, heard a woman's screams echo through Lake Avenue. The commotion seemed to be coming from the home of a reclusive neighbor that he knew as Martin King, another alias for Mr. Frankel.
Soon after, Mr. Courier said, he and other neighbors learned that something horrible had happened at 881 Lake Avenue.
A woman had hanged herself. The police arrived on the scene to find Frances Burge, a heavy-set 22-year-old, lying dead on the ground outside the house.
The death was ruled a suicide. Days later, when the Couriers read about what had happened in the local newspaper, they asked their lawyer, Gregory Saum, to get in contact with the police to tell the story of the chilling screams. Mr. Saum relayed their story to the Drug Enforcement Administration, fearing that the death may have been related to narcotics activity. D.E.A. agents made inquiries, but these did not appear to have led to any action.
The incident is among the many bizarre events that unfolded at the Frankel houses on Lake Avenue throughout much of the 1990's, as Mr. Frankel used the money that the Government now says was stolen to create a lavish life style. Interviews with people who knew him and visited his homes paint a vivid picture of a reclusive and paranoid man, obsessed with his physical safety.
Mr. Frankel turned his properties into armed camps, posting gun-toting guards, and erecting a six-foot metal fence complete with cameras and floodlights perched on top.
But associates also described a man who had trouble meeting women and who scoured the Internet and placed ads in The Village Voice in search of dates. Some of the women who befriended him were from far-flung locations, like Switzerland, Alaska and Russia, the associates said. Several ended up living in Greenwich homes that Mr. Frankel rented for them, for prices ranging from $4,000 to $10,000 a month, according to local real estate agents.
Pornography and sexual fetishes were prominent features of the house. According to police reports, during a search of the house following the death of Ms. Burge, the authorities discovered a leather riding crop, ropes and sadomasochistic literature and videos. Similar items were found by the police in the days following Mr. Frankel's disappearance, along with a number of pornographic videotapes. On the computers scattered about the residence were sexually explicit images downloaded from the Internet, according to people who have seen them.
When the police interviewed him about Ms. Burge's death, he spoke openly about how he found women in personal ads, invited them to his home and often paid them to live with him or nearby. "The girls do not get paid a salary, but I give them money as they need it," he told the police.
To some who knew him, Mr. Frankel seemed odd rather than dangerous. These people described him as a compulsive talker, who flitted from topic to topic, one moment holding forth on astrology and the "cosmos" and the next discussing the intricacies of Greenwich real estate. A compulsively fussy eater, they said he had two live-in chefs who worked around the clock, accommodating his nocturnal schedule and his desire for gourmet food.
But some neighbors said they worried about what was really going on at Mr. Frankel's Lake Avenue residences. The driveway bristled with fleets of BMW's and Mercedes- Benzes, as people traipsed in and out of the Lake Avenue homes 24 hours a day.
Tensions erupted. In one case, when Mr. Frankel's fence cut off a public riding trail, a representative of the Greenwich Riding and Trails Association rang the doorbell at 881 Lake Avenue, only to hear an electronic recorded voice: "Who are you and what do you want?" She fled.
 
The Church
Finding Friends In the Vatican
 Though he was raised Jewish and expressed fervently pro-Israel political views to friends, Mr. Frankel aggressively courted the Catholic Church and the Vatican religious hierarchy beginning last summer.
Accounts of his involvement with Catholic priests and the Vatican differ, but one thing seems certain: Mr. Frankel promised lavish financial contributions to Catholic charities in return for support from their leadership.
Mr. Frankel told the priests he met with that his interests were purely charitable. But from the moment last August when the St. Francis of Assisi Foundation was founded in the British Virgin Islands with the motto "To Serve and Help the Poor and Alleviate Suffering," he used it as a vehicle for business transactions.
It is not clear why. One explanation advanced by associates of Mr. Frankel is that a foundation backed by the Vatican might lend him credibility in buying additional insurance companies that would keep his scheme alive. Others suspect that he may also have seen an advantage to creating another layer between himself and the companies he controlled.
Whatever his motives, he pursued his quarry with ardor. He stacked the shelves of the library in his Greenwich home with Catholic literature, including histories of the saints and papal encyclicals, visitors to his home said. He familiarized himself with the life of St. Francis of Assisi, renowned for helping the poor. He told people he had repeatedly watched the Franco Zefferelli movie about St. Francis.
The books and the knowledge of the saints helped Mr. Frankel win the trust of Thomas A. Bolan, a New York lawyer and supporter of Catholic causes who became a foundation trustee. Mr. Frankel told Mr. Bolan, who was the law partner of the late Roy Cohn, that he planned to give at least $50 million to Catholic charities immediately, and wanted Mr. Bolan's help in arranging an audience with senior Catholic clerics to discuss the gifts, said Mr. Bolan's lawyer, Maurice R. Nessen.
Mr. Bolan introduced Mr. Frankel to another well-connected American Catholic, the Rev. Peter Jacobs, who would also become a trustee of Mr. Frankel's foundation. Mr. Jacobs, despite having had run-ins with the Catholic Church hierarchy in America, had connections in Rome, where he lives in retirement.
It was Mr. Jacobs who introduced Mr. Frankel to his most important religious contact, Monsignor Colagiovanni, 80, who serves as president of the Monitor Ecclesiasticus Foundation, an educational organization that has ties to the Vatican.
Monsignor Colagiovanni, now retired, had served as a judge on an important church tribunal, the Roman Rota. As president of the Monitor Ecclesiasticus, he served at the behest of the Vatican Curia, or Senate. Vatican officials said there was no connection between the Monitor organization and the Vatican but declined to answer further questions.
Monsignor Colagiovanni recalls being impressed with Mr. Frankel's determination to help the poor, as well as his knowledge of St. Francis of Assisi. "If I cannot trust the Catholic Church, who can I trust?" the monsignor recalls Mr. Frankel asking him.
The church officials say they were also dazzled by Mr. Frankel's personal generosity. While negotiating with the Vatican, he bought Mr. Bolan tickets on the Concorde, and flew Mr. Jacobs across the Atlantic in first-class cabins after the priest said he declined offers to fly on Mr. Frankel's private jet. When Mr. Frankel learned that Mr. Bolan's son was dying of multiple sclerosis, he paid for a nurse to attend to the son at home, Mr. Bolan's lawyer said.
The courtship paid dividends. Mr. Jacobs and Monsignor Colagiovanni arranged for the St. Francis of Assisi Foundation to have access to an account at the Instituto per le Opere di Religione, the Vatican bank, which is off-limits to outsiders.
But perhaps most helpful to Mr. Frankel were two affidavits, drafted by Mr. Frankel's lawyers and signed by Monsignor Colagiovanni, several people directly involved in the process confirmed. The first, issued last November, contended that the St. Francis of Assisi Foundation was an organization within the Holy See, meaning that it carried the imprimatur of the Pope.
A second, issued three months later, backed off that assertion. It said the Monitor Ecclesiasticus Foundation contributed $1 billion to the St. Francis of Assisi Foundation, and further contended that the money emanated from "various Roman Catholic tribunals and Roman Catholic cultural institutions."
Both statements are now widely doubted. Monsignor Colagiovanni's lawyer now calls the affidavits a "mistake" and ascribes his error to misplaced trust in Mr. Frankel.
But though Mr. Frankel clearly expected the religious overlay he put on his operation to help him expand his empire rapidly, the purported link to the Vatican ties did not, apparently, do him much good. They might even have contributed to his demise.
Last August, the St. Francis of Assisi Foundation began taking control of Thunor Trust and, by extension, Mr. Frankel's growing network of insurance companies. Mr. Frankel, however, quickly discovered that invoking the name of the Vatican raised red flags everywhere.
Negotiations for two new purchases of insurance companies, one in Colorado and another in Washington State, fell through after Mr. Frankel arranged for the St. Francis foundation to become the purchaser instead of Thunor Trust. Foreign ownership, prohibited by some state insurance regulators, was one stumbling block.
"St. Francis was telling us that they were ultimately controlled by the Vatican, but if that was the case, then they could not buy Capital Life," said Joseph L. Blattner, president of the Capital Life Insurance Company of Denver, which negotiated with Mr. Frankel's organization for nearly six months before the talks collapsed.
Meanwhile, by late 1998, regulators were beginning to catch up with Mr. Frankel. Tennessee state examiners questioned why the Franklin insurance companies that they oversaw had placed so much money in one pot -- Mr. Frankel's Liberty -- and worried about rapid turnover of the Liberty accounts. Liberty reported trading volume in 1998 of about $14 billion, in exchange for earning a negligible $40,000 in commissions. Mr. Frankel dodged a bullet when he transferred assets back to Tennessee before a deadline.
He had a harder time fending off Mississippi officials a few months later. Regulators in that state questioned the same trading patterns. But Franklin's answers made matters worse. They revealed that the change in ownership from Thunor to the St. Francis foundation had not been reported, as required, to local authorities. That is what prompted the late April gathering in Jackson, where many of Mr. Frankel's colleagues saw him in person for the only time.
Court records show that Mr. Frankel may have known the end was near. Even before that meeting, Franklin subsidiaries had transferred large sums to Liberty National or other accounts directly controlled by Mr. Frankel, including $161 million from Mississippi insurance companies and $117 million from affiliated companies in Missouri. The court records suggest that most of that money was transferred into foreign bank accounts by early May.
On May 7, two days after firefighters responded to a fire caused by burning documents in the Greenwich mansion, Mr. Hackney, Mr. Jacobs, Mr. Bolan, Monsignor Colagiovanni, legal officers at Akin, Gump, regulators in several states and many others were told that Mr. Frankel had disappeared.
"It all seemed so good, like Brooke Astor," Mr. Jacobs said, referring to the New York benefactress as he reflected on his ties to Mr. Frankel. "Only he turned out to be the Devil."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin R. Frankel disappeared, along with hundreds of millions of dollars in insurance company money. (pg. C6)
 
Chart: "Fanfare for a Con Man"
In the late 1980's, when he was soliciting investors from his hometown of Toledo, Ohio, Martin R. Frankel (shown here in his high school yearbook, 1970) wrote up his life story for potential clients. Despite the grandiose descriptions of his ability, in a matter of years Mr. Frankel was barred from the industry because of lies he told customers. Among the statements he made about himself:
 
'During his early elementary school tenure, he was tested, without preparation, using the Stanford-Binet IQ test, on which he received a score of 194, one of the highest scores ever registered by a child on this popular IQ test.'
 
'When he graduated from Whitmer High School in 1971, he was at the time the only student in Whitmer history who had ever been allowed for reasons of academic excellence - to graduate after attending only three years.'
 
'On several exams at the University of Toledo, he scored higher than any student had ever scored.'
 
'Marty Frankel has unearthed a method he uses to predict the movement of financial instruments...His work in this field has been confirmed, in part, by the work of leading economists and psychologists at Yale, Cornell, Stanford and the University of California at Berkely.'
 
'Marty Frankel's prowess at investing is powerful. For five years, Marty Frankel has placed in the top rank of money managers in the United States.'
 
'His finest hour possibly came in 1987, when he predicted the October crash...Frankel was one of the very few money managers in the country who was 100 percent in cash during the Great Crash of 1987.'
 
'Frankel believes the job of money management is a sacred profession, like that of a doctor, and he approaches his clients with this same degree of care.'
(pg. C6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (77%); ITALY (72%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSON, MS, USA (92%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (74%); ROME, ITALY (72%); 

COMPANY: LIBERTY NATIONAL SECURITIES; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH FRANKLIN AMERICAN CORP (84%); UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERTY NATIONAL SECURITIES; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (77%); ITALY (72%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); JACKSON, MS, USA (92%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (74%); ROME, ITALY (72%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; PYRAMID SCHEMES RELIGION (93%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); INSURANCE (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHARITIES (90%); INSURANCE FRAUD (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); ARRESTS (74%); BONDS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); ARREST WARRANTS (65%); LAWYERS (63%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (61%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; FRANKEL, MARTIN R MARTIN R FRANKEL (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



527 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Union Victory a Milestone
Workers in North Carolina appeared to have ended a 93-year epoch, voting to allow a union inside the nation's largest textile plant. PAGE A16
 
Democrats' Medicare Worry
House Democrats say they are nervous that the President's Medicare plan, with higher premiums, could alarm elderly voters. PAGE A21 

Loan to China Approved
The World Bank approved an antipoverty loan for China, despite objections from the United States and pro-Tibet groups. PAGE A12 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (56%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (52%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (52%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (56%); MEDICARE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (52%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MEDICARE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (83%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



528 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 31; Column 6; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: ART IN REVIEW;
Romuald Hazoume

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:

The Project
421 West 126th Street
Harlem
Through July 25
This show marks the first United States solo of Romuald Hazoume, 37, an artist from Benin in West Africa who has recently appeared in several international biennials. All the work -- seven paintings and around two dozen sculptures -- was produced in New York during an extended visit by the artist just before the show. 
 The sculptures are constructed from industrial or commercial materials that he found or bought in the gallery's Harlem neighborhood. They all suggest faces, and many of them bring to mind traditional African masks.
Mr. Hazoume is a deft and witty assemblagist. The masks are fashioned from plastic detergent jugs, videocassette casings, hand irons and lengths of hosing or strips of metal chrome. These shapes are supplemented by others. Electric fan blades serve as ears, shoe brushes as tufts of hair, crushed soft drink cans as eyes.
Conceptually, the sculpture touches many bases. It has sources in so-called tribal objects, though it replaces their organic materials with nonbiodegradable substances. It turns a third world economy of recycling into gallery art. It refers to the pervasive reach of Western-generated consumer culture, which includes the high-price collecting and museum stockpiling of pre-colonial Africa art. Finally, this site-specific work reflects its New York environment. In a pair of faces titled "Before, After," one has crack vials for eyes, and the other is scorched and half melted.
By contrast to these dense improvisations, Mr. Hazoume's paintings look airy and light. Each is made from layers of earth, brought from Africa or elsewhere, and rubbed into stretched canvas. On ocher and cinnamon-red grounds, the artist paints linear emblems, usually one per painting, of oracular and personal significance.
More than the sculptures, the paintings have (to Western eyes, at least) an "African" look, and seem to require a very specific symbolic decoding. But they are visually beguiling, and there's no question that Mr. Hazoume's debut is a welcome addition to a New York season in which contemporary art from Africa -- diverse in media, forms and ideas -- has had an unusually strong presence.
 HOLLAND COTTER 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND; HAZOUME, ROMUALD ROMUALD HAZOUME (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



529 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B;Page 3;Column 1;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: City Board Approves Increases for Rent-Stabilized Apartments

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
The New York City Rent Guidelines Board voted 5 to 4 last night to approve a 2 percent increase for one-year leases and a 4 percent increase for two-year leases on rent-stabilized apartments, the same increases approved for four of the last five years.
The board sets rent increases for the approximately one million New York City apartments in buildings operating under rent stabilization, whose rules date back to 1943. 
 The vote by the board reflects a staff recommendation in May for 2 to 4 percent increases, which are tied to the Price Index of Operating Costs, a landlord price index compiled by the city. That measure, which reflects costs like heating oil, was 0.03 percent last year, down from 0.13 percent in 1997. Landlords criticize the index because they say it does not reflect long-term costs.
The meeting began with a protracted debate among board members, who include two landlord representatives and two tenant representatives, and was punctuated by the jeering of tenant advocates, who made up the majority of the hundred or so audience members and continually yelled, "Jerk," "Sleazy," and "You're insane!"
Edward S. Hochman, 46, the chairman of the rent guidelines board, expressed frustration with both the debate and the loud protest.
"The numbers legitimately made for a narrow range," Mr. Hochman said in an interview during a recess, referring to the landlord price index. "It was never going to go below 0 and never go above 2 percent for one-year leases, and never go below 1 and never go above 4 percent for two years. But tonight was like the Battle of Stalingrad, where the battle loses any real military purpose."
Mr. Hochman requested that two police officers stand at attention in front of the stage at the Grand Hall of Cooper Union and had a third officer circulate through the audience to request quiet.
Vincent S. Castellano, 37, a landlord and real estate broker from the Rockaways, in Queens, who is one of two landlord representatives on the board, said, "If you can't raise rents when economic times are good, when tenants are working, when income is going up, then when would you suggest we raise rents?"
Mr. Castellano cited city statistics that 116,000 jobs were created last year and personal income, adjusted for inflation, rose 3.5 percent. Meanwhile, apartment buildings continue to age, repairs continue to mount and become more expensive and the city government continues to impose new requirements, like fire sprinklers and removal of lead paint, he said.
David D. Pagan, 55, a tenant representative on the board and an administrator at the Southside United Housing Development Fund Corporation in Brooklyn, said the board vote was "extremely disappointing." He said the landlord price index was "next to nothing, and we were willing to give a little on the second year." He had proposed a 0 percent increase for one-year leases and 1.8 percent for two-year leases. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about increases for rent-stabilized apartments in New York City misstated the history of the law. Rent stabilization was enacted in 1969; it is the rent control law that dates from 1943. The article also referred imprecisely to the working of the newer law. It regulates individual apartments, not buildings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. RENT CONTROL (94%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); APPROVALS (91%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); HEATING OIL (70%); JOB CREATION (60%); LEAD (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); LEAD PAINT (50%); 

PERSON: EDWARD S HOCHMAN (77%); VINCENT S CASTELLANO (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



530 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 27; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 4527 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
Even in Fog, That City On a Hill Dazzles

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
More than any other, this is the city that Americans fantasize about. No one leaves his heart in Salt Lake City. No one calls Baltimore Baghdad by the Bay, as Herb Caen, the city's six-day-a-week poet laureate for more than 50 years, called San Francisco.
For me San Francisco has always been a paradox: a thoroughly worldly place, yet remote and somehow detached from world capitals like New York and London; a little indifferent to the mundane business of trading shares and casting votes; in other words, a bit smug. (The good Mr. Caen, who before his death in 1997 did for San Francisco what Samuel Pepys did for London, once quoted a local citizen who, upon reaching heaven, reported back to friends here that "it's nice, but it isn't San Francisco.") 
 Yet San Francisco looms large in the imagination of everyone who knows it, myself most decidedly included. Like Paris, Venice and Hong Kong, it is a city without peer, a city of myth and magic.
I can't think of the place without thinking about sourdough bread and Alice Waters, who revolutionized American cooking; Joe DiMaggio, the fisherman's son, and A. P. Giannini, another Italian-American, who built the world's largest bank; Turk Murphy and San Francisco jazz; Alcatraz and San Quentin; the hairpin bends on Lombard Street and the sudden watery vistas.
The weather I could do without. Fog veils the city so often that a local radio station has adopted the call letters KFOG. Fog bleaches the color from the perky paint jobs on the Victorian frame houses that march up and down the city's distinctive hills. When the fog finally lifts, when everything sparkles in the sun, it is an occasion for celebration. Yes! A five-bridge day, with all the spans from the Golden Gate almost down to Palo Alto clearly visible.
But fog has its uses. Several years ago, crossing the Bay Bridge from Oakland to San Francisco at dawn, my wife, Betsey, and I watched bug-eyed as the Transamerica pyramid and the city's other towers rose bronzed and beautiful from their cloudy bed. Nothing, in truth, not fog or rain or fire or quake, ever quite masks San Francisco's beauty or quenches its exuberance. Its setting rivals Rio's. Its charm compares with Boston's. Its joie de vivre nearly matches that of New Orleans; it lacks only the last Latin measure of heedlessness.
Characters from Nob Hill and Telegraph Hill, Chinatown and the Tenderloin have walked straight into the pages of Bret Harte, Jack London, Frank Norris, Dashiell Hammett, Tom Wolfe (who found the essential San Francisco experience in "roaring up hills or down hills, sliding on and off the cable-car tracks") and John Steinbeck, who loved San Francisco, as he wrote, when "the afternoon sun painted her white and gold, rising on her hills like a noble city in a happy dream."
San Francisco is on something of a cultural tear lately, cementing its position as the West Coast's cultural capital, although Los Angeles is by no means the pothole full of philistines many San Franciscans see when (if) they take the plane south.
The San Francisco Opera is the nation's second largest, after the Met, and it has the largest budget of any West Coast arts organization.
An old autocrat named Kurt Herbert Adler built the opera's reputation, bringing singers of the caliber of Tebaldi, Schwarzkopf and Fassbaender to the United States for the first time. Lotfi Mansouri, the current general director, has gradually lengthened the season, and during the 10 months from next September through July 2000, 11 different operas will be performed.
At the moment, the opera is in the midst of four cycles of Wagner's immense "Ring of the Nibelung" at the War Memorial Opera House (the place where the United Nations Charter was signed on June 26, 1945, by representatives of 50 nations). The 15-year-old production was reshaped by Andrei Serban, the Romanian-born stage director, who had never seen a complete "Ring" until his own. Jane Eaglen, Deborah Voigt and James Morris are among the gods, demigods and giants onstage. The final cycle ends on July 3.
 
A Genuine Celebrity
Not to be outdone, the city's orchestra is just concluding an ambitious Stravinsky festival, exploring the master's work in Russia, Paris and Los Angeles, where its music director, Michael Tilson Thomas, then in his 20's, knew him at the end of his long, hugely productive career. Successor to luminaries like Monteux and Krips, the lithe, lean Maestro Thomas is one of only three American-born music directors of major American orchestras, along with Leonard Slatkin in Washington and Andrew Litton in Dallas. M. T. T., as the local papers call him, is one of San Francisco's genuine celebrities these days, a Pied Piper leading the young back into the concert hall.
If the critics grumble once in a while, the public has responded warmly to his programs in his nearly four years here, and even a Vienna audience would have been impressed, I think, by his powerful but never bombastic Bruckner Ninth in Davies Symphony Hall early this spring.
As ever under Mr. Thomas, there will be a lot of American and modern music next season, plus a tasty rarity, Elgar's "Dream of Gerontius."
The San Francisco Ballet is in the hands of an old New York favorite, Helgi Tomasson, who has transformed a regional troupe into a fine classical company since taking over as artistic director in 1985. I won't prattle on here; it's enough to quote Anna Kisselgoff of The New York Times, no easy mark, who proclaimed the company "world class" after watching it last year.
All three companies perform in San Francisco's Civic Center, whose most prominent building is the newly, grandly restored City Hall, with an enormous, echoing rotunda. (Don't miss it, even if this stuff usually leaves you cold as a musher's nose in midwinter.) Nearby stands the new public library, and by 2002, now that a knot of litigation has seemingly been untied, the Asian Art Museum is scheduled to open in the old library building, adapted by Gae Aulenti, the Italian wizard who turned a Paris train station into the Musee d'Orsay.
Comparisons are odious, if entertaining, but I would argue that the Asian museum is San Francisco's best. Built around the collection of Avery Brundage, it contains Japanese, Korean and Indian works, but the Chinese material is supreme. When the Chinese leader Jiang Zemin visited the museum, he was dazzled by a gilded image of the Buddha from A.D. 338. I'll bet you will be, too.
For the moment, the Asian museum shares a quake-weakened, obtrusively buttressed building in Golden Gate Park with the M. H. de Young Museum, which has raised $65 million for a new home, to be designed by Herzog & de Meuron, architects of the new Bankside building for the Tate Gallery in London. The strength of its collection lies in American painting, from George Caleb Bingham's "Boatmen on the Missouri" through Frederic E. Church's "Rainy Season in the Tropics" to Grant Wood's "Dinner for Threshers," a plain-faced group portrait that outshines the over-familiar "American Gothic." Many of the choicest pictures came in a 1978 gift of 175 items from Mr. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller 3d.
The de Young's sister museum, the California Palace of the Legion of Honor -- together they are known as the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco -- was rebuilt and reinvented several years ago, reopening in November 1995. It occupies a picturesque site in Lincoln Park, overlooking the great rust-red pylons of the Golden Gate Bridge, an iconic structure that embodies this city's spirit the way the Statue of Liberty embodies New York's.
Founded by the flamboyant Alma de Bretteville Spreckels, whose rich, indulgent husband, Adolph, inherited a sugar fortune, the museum's collection centers on European art, especially French art. The "Old Woman" by Georges de la Tour, a Monet "Waterlilies," a powerful off-center portrait by Degas, "The Impresario," and some 70 Rodins are in the collection.
Yet another arts district has sprung into being in recent years in the redeveloped area south of Market Street, known as SoMa. At its core is the Yerba Buena Center, designed for the many small-scale arts organizations in the Bay Area. It includes galleries by the Japanese architect Fumihiko Maki, sheathed in corrugated aluminum siding but still somehow delicate, and a theater designed by James Stewart Polshek, dark and angular on the inside but more like a jaunty piece of de Stijl sculpture outside.
 
More of the Arts
Around the perimeter are a children's entertainment and education center, complete with carousel; the brand-new $85 million Metreon, Sony's urban version of a Disney theme park, with an "environment" by Maurice Sendak, which is expected to attract five million visitors a year; the Ansel Adams Center for Photography, and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Still to come are a new Jewish Museum designed by Daniel Libeskind, who did a similar project in Berlin, and a new building for the Mexican Museum.
The big cheese, of course, is the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, which is housed in Mario Botta's four-year-old landmark building, whose truncated cylindrical tower lets the light flood in. A bequest from Elise S. Haas, of the Levi Strauss family, brought it several pictures once owned by Sarah Stein, the sister-in-law of Gertrude, including a breathtaking Fauve Matisse, "Femme au Chapeau." Phyllis C. Wattis, the San Francisco cultural world's Brooke Astor, gave $20 million in 1998 to buy 13 Rauschenbergs and other works.
Donald G. Fisher, the founder of the Gap clothing chain, paid $1.9 million in May for an Alexander Calder wood-and-wire sculpture called "Constellation." It appears to be headed for the modern art museum, too. But because of the need to rotate pictures, Bay Area artists like Richard Diebenkorn and Sam Francis are sometimes underrepresented on the museum's walls.
The Yerba Buena area is the epicenter of modern architecture in the city. Elsewhere, the pickings are slimmer, despite Frank Lloyd Wright's building on Maiden Lane, now the Circle Gallery, which was a precursor of the Guggenheim in its use of a spiral ramp, and his Buck Rogers-style civic center in Marin County.
Architecture buffs will want to see something of Bernard Maybeck, the individualist who foreshadowed the California Arts and Crafts movement. (The templelike Palace of Fine Arts, left over from the 1915 Panama-Pacific Exposition, and the First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Berkeley are his masterworks.) A glacier-white Richard Neutra house, cantilevered over a cliff with a picture-postcard view of the Bay Bridge, is at 56 Calhoun Terrace. And the excess of San Francisco's Gilded Age is wonderfully displayed in Alma Spreckels's Beaux-Arts mansion on Pacific Heights, with 26 bathrooms. It now belongs to Danielle Steel, the romance novelist.
 
Striking It Rich
Hemmed in by bay and ocean at the tip of a narrow peninsula, San Francisco is relatively small. It ranks only 13th on the list of American cities, with a population estimated at 735,000 in 1996; Los Angeles, San Diego and San Jose are all bigger. But the metropolitan area surrounding the bay, with 6.6 million people, is the nation's fifth largest.
San Francisco was built on three stout economic legs: silver from the Comstock Lode, the transcontinental railroads and the port, once dominated by Harry Bridges, the militant leader of the longshoremen.
George Hearst struck it rich in the mines; his son, William Randolph Hearst, struck it richer in yellow journalism, which he helped to invent; the younger Hearst's granddaughter Patty was kidnapped in 1974 by the Symbionese Liberation Army, but survived. The circulation of Hearst's flagship, The San Francisco Examiner, whose logo proclaims it "Monarch of the Dailies," has shriveled, but it may yet swallow its larger rival, The San Francisco Chronicle, whose owning families could give lessons to the Hatfields and the McCoys.
W. R. Hearst may have been satirized by Orson Welles in "Citizen Kane," but the men who built the Central Pacific, mostly on the back of Chinese coolies, were reviled in their own time as profiteers. They were called the Big Four: Leland Stanford, Collis P. Huntington, Charles Crocker and Mark Hopkins. According to one contemporary account, they made a $63 million profit on a $121 million investment.
It once seemed that San Francisco got by on beauty, charm and the spending of strangers. But that has changed, and radically.
Silicon Valley, just to the south, is the land of memory chips, software and freshly coined millionaires, which attracts a third of all the venture capital invested in the country. Five of the best 20 places to earn a living in the United States, a survey by Forbes magazine recently found, are within an hour and a half's drive of downtown San Francisco.
No wonder people want to live here. No wonder the median price for a single-family house in the Bay Area has risen 14.2 percent in the last year to $334,590. (In Atherton, a tony suburb, it hit $2.5 million.)
But off in a corner, with no share in this orgasm of prosperity, are the city's omnipresent homeless, begging for money at freeway offramps by day, rolling out their sleeping bags by night in the doorways of expensive stores and other buildings, hoping the police won't notice.
If the police do move in, some of the homeless people whip out their cellular phones and call television stations to come film the action.
As early as 1883, Robert Louis Stevenson remarked on the city's cosmopolitan character, detecting "the airs of Marseilles and Peking" in its streets. Writing in the same vein 50 years later, another traveler, John Gunther, called San Francisco "brilliant, polyglot and sophisticated," and said it "will tolerate everything, including the intolerable."
San Francisco has an established social order and lots of Old Money, even a mini-Wall Street. It has a fondness for clubs -- the Olympic; the Bohemian, with its encampments on the Russian River north of town, and the Pacific Union, whose brown sandstone clubhouse atop Nob Hill once belonged to the silver millionaire James Flood. It is bracketed by two universities of world stature -- the University of California at Berkeley, east of the bay, and Stanford University at Palo Alto, an hour south of the city.
But this has always been a city that embraces rule-breakers. From its beginnings as an R & R stop for Gold Rush pioneers through the wide-open era of Barbary Coast saloons to the heyday of North Beach topless bars, featuring the silicone-boosted charms of Carol Doda, San Francisco has been a good-time town, ready to live and let live.
 
A Town of Tolerance
As a result of its tolerance, the city has always had more than its share of characters, notably Joshua Norton, who proclaimed himself Emperor of the United States in 1859 (and advanced the obviously loony idea of a bridge connecting San Francisco and Oakland). I saw one of his spiritual descendants this spring, a portly fellow with full beard and flowing hair, dressed in overalls and railroad engineer's cap, ambling along, blowing soap bubbles.
Countercultures have flourished here since World War II. In the 1950's, Columbus Avenue gave birth to the Beat Generation and its bards Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg. In the 1960's came the hippies of Haight-Ashbury, preaching Flower Power, dreaming multicolored dreams and packing Bill Graham's rock concerts, and the student rebels of Berkeley, led by Mario Savio. In the 1970's, Huey Newton, from Oakland, made the Black Panthers a militant voice for the dispossessed of the nation's ghettos.
Gay men and lesbians were given an honored place in San Francisco when they were still swept under the carpet elsewhere. It was perhaps inevitable that the American AIDS epidemic hit first and hardest here, but horrifyingly unexpected when the gay activist Harvey Milk, whose election as a Supervisor in 1977 had thrilled gay San Franciscans, was assassinated in 1978 along with the city's Mayor, George R. Moscone.
Now the Mayor is Willie L. Brown Jr., a black boulevardier who started life as a sharecropper's son, a man with the charm of Cary Grant, the audacity of a high-wire artist and lots of political smarts. Willie, as they say here, never bothering to specify his last name, "is a piece of work." Some people bridle at his Italian suits, flashy cars and pretty girlfriends, but few will bet against him when he stands for re-election this fall. Many nights, he attends a half-dozen political functions before meeting a friend for a late dinner, and then at midnight he stands on the street outside the restaurant, greeting and teasing a few of the tourists who throng to his city.
His most reliable supporters are San Francisco's Chinese.
 
Delights by the Bay
 
Here is information about visiting San Francisco:
 
Where to Stay
 
CAMPTON PLACE, 340 Stockton Street, (415) 781-5555. A polished little gem of a hotel, ideally situated just off Union Square, marred only by a few overly snug bedrooms. The multinational, multilingual staff will jump through hoops to make you comfortable. A half-dozen of San Francisco's best chefs have presided in the dining room over the last quarter-century. Double room: $260 to $400.
 
MANDARIN ORIENTAL, 222 Sansome Street, (415) 885-0999. In the heart of the Financial District yet close enough to Union Square, Chinatown and SoMa, this is a spectacular sibling of one of Hong Kong's finest hotels. It occupies floors 38 to 48 of a skyscraper, guaranteeing great views. Double room: $415 to $570 weekdays; $255 to $550 weekends.
 
REX, 562 Sutter Street, (415) 433-4434. Like Paris, San Francisco is blessed with affordable hotels, and the Rex is among the most charming. A vaguely clubby lobby with a bar and rooms with luxury-hotel amenities -- voice mail, dataports, movies -- dispel any hint of slumming. Double room: $165 to $245.
 
RITZ-CARLTON, 600 Stockton Street, (415) 296-7465. As ritzy as they come, this is the city's premier hotel, a worthy successor to the grandes dames of the past like the St. Francis, the Clift and the Fairmont. Perched on the side of Nob Hill, it is fairly stuffed with marble, crystal and brocade, and the bedrooms are luxurious in size as well as decor. We ate an impeccable Thanksgiving dinner one year in the pretty restaurant. Double room: $309 to $3,500 for a suite.
 
W, 181 Third Street, (415) 777-5300, is a sassy new spot in the Yerba Buena arts district. An octagonal three-story lobby adjoins a "living room" with smart modern furniture. Royal blue and chocolate brown are the colors of choice upstairs and down. The restaurant is called XYZ, natch. Double room: $239 to $319.
 
Where to Eat
 
CHEZ PANISSE, 1517 Shattuck Avenue, Berkeley, (510) 548-5525. What to say? Alice Waters only gets better, buying superlative ingredients from small farmers and handling them with reverence. Every night, a six-course set menu, balanced and seasonal, is served in an old Craftsman house half hidden by trees. In the final week of May this year, the menus emphasized fava beans, morels, king salmon and asparagus. The atmosphere is a little worshipful for me, but who cares when everything looks and tastes so beautiful?
 
MASA, 648 Bush Street, (415) 989-7154. For decades now, Masa has been the town's top French restaurant, a subdued, formal place with subtle, complex cooking. Julian Serrano, who made it what it is, has followed the yellow brick road to Las Vegas, but Michael Bauer, The San Francisco Chronicle's exigent food critic, detects no decline in standards.
 
OLIVETO, 5655 College Avenue, Oakland, (510) 547-5356. Close your eyes, and Paul Bertolli will whisk you to the Umbrian countryside. He marries peasant heartiness with city-slicker lightness: homemade noodles with delicate sand dabs, gossamer gnocchi with sage and brown butter, moist roast pork bathed in rich pan juices, with fleshy white beans on the side. One of our companions called the dense chocolate tartuffo "heroin on a plate."
 
POSTRIO, 545 Post Street, (415) 776-7825. This is Wolfgang Puck's Northern California outpost, a trilevel showplace designed by the celebrated Pat Kuleto. Puckish pizzas at the bar; more substantial fare downstairs, notably roasted leg of lamb with garlic mashed potatoes (aaah) and nicoise olives. Or try the fine grilled quail. They serve breakfast, too.
 
RUBICON, 558 Sacramento Street, (415) 434-4100. The room is airy, the food solidly Californian, the management by Drew Nieporent watchful. But it is Larry Stone, California's best sommelier, who pulls in the winos, myself included. Can't find Grace Family cabernets? He has them (at a price, to be sure), as well as small-grower Burgundies and many other goodies.
 
SLANTED DOOR, 584 Valencia Street, (415) 861-8032. You will find no better Vietnamese food anywhere in the United States (or, I dare say, in Vietnam). The neighborhood is proletarian (no parking), but classic dishes like spring rolls and caramelized shrimp are executed with all the finesse of Alain Ducasse. The spicy squid and chili green beans aren't bad, either.
 
TADICH GRILL, 240 California Street, (415) 391-1849. Born with the Gold Rush, Tadich's turns 150 this year. Fabulously fresh fish, simply prepared, is the house specialty: sand dabs and petrale sole, grilled or pan-fried; the tomato-based seafood stew called cioppino, and peerless Dungeness crab in the shell, in a cocktail or in a salad. Go for lunch.
 
TON KIANG, 5821 Geary Boulevard, (415) 387-8273. Think you know dim sum? Ton Kiang will teach you a thing or two about greaseless frying, translucent dumpling skins and the use of chives, spring onions and ginger to point up flavors. This is a favorite of the chef Barbara Tropp, which speaks volumes, and it earns a tip of my hat for its smiling, efficient service.
 
ZUNI CAFE, 1658 Market Street, (415) 552-2522. A friend of mine calls Judy Rogers's Spartan cafe, with copper bar and roaring wood-burning oven, "the soul of San Francisco." So it is, in its delicious simplicity, whether you order a pristine martini and a plate of oysters at the bar, or a Caesar salad fit for a Caesar or, if you go late, an unlisted treat: a princely hamburger made from brined beef ground when you order and served on focaccia.
 
Attractions
 
SAN FRANCISCO OPERA, War Memorial Opera House, Van Ness Avenue and Grove Streets, (415) 864-3330. Wagner's "Ring of the Nibelung," through July 3. Box office: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Tickets: $30 to $190. Last production until September.
 
SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY, Civic Center Complex, Davies Symphony Hall, 201 Van Ness Avenue, (415) 864-6000. Through tomorrow, "A Stravinsky Festival"; sold out. Thursday through Aug. 1, the San Franciso Symphony presents its Summer in the City pops concert series, with special guests. The first concert is on Thursday and next Friday, with Patti LuPone. Tickets: $10-$48. Fall season begins on Sept. 8.
 
SAN FRANCISCO BALLET, Civic Center Complex, War Memorial Opera House, 301 Van Ness Avenue, (415) 865-2000. The ballet tours in the summer. Fall season begins in December with "The Nutcracker."
 
ASIAN ART MUSEUM, Tea Garden Drive, off John F. Kennedy Drive, Golden Gate Park, adjacent to the M. H de Young Memorial Museum, (415) 379-8801. About 200 pieces of Chinese jade from the Avery Brundage collection are on view through next summer; "The Unending Path: Paintings by Harold Wong From 1957-1997," through Oct. 17; "From the Rainbow's Varied Hue: Textiles of the Southern Philippines," through Aug. 15. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9:30 A.M. to 4:45 P.M. Admission (includes the M. H. de Young Museum): $7; $5, the elderly; $4, children 12 to 17; free, children under 12 and members.
 
M. H. DE YOUNG MUSEUM, 75 Tea Garden Drive, Golden Gate Park, next to the Asian Art Museum, (415) 863-3330. "The Art of Craft: Contemporary Works From the Faxe Collection," tomorrow through Oct. 17. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission: See Asian Art Museum.
 
CALIFORNIA PALACE OF THE LEGION OF HONOR, 34th Avenue and Clement Street, Lincoln Park, (415) 863-3330. "Francis Bacon: A Retrospective Exhibition," through Aug. 2; "The Treasury of Saint Francis of Assisi," July 24 through Nov. 14. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M.. Admission: $8; $6, the elderly, $5, children 12 to 17; under 12 is free.
 
YERBA BUENA CENTER, 701 Mission Street, at Third Street, (415) 978-2787. Through tomorrow night, "Sleazoid Express Film Festival." Admission to films and exhibitions: $6; $3, students and the elderly. Summer highlights include the Summerstage free lunchtime series in the Gardens, featuring a weeklong dance festival (July 19-23); San Francisco Butoh Festival (July 31); San Francisco Mime Troupe (Aug. 1) and noontime concerts.
 
METREON, Fourth and Mission Streets, (415) 369-6000 or (800) 638-7366. A four-story complex of theaters, shops and restaurants in the Yerba Buena Gardens area. Hours: Daily, 10 A.M. to 10 P.M. Admission: $7; $5, children. Web site: www.metreon.com.
 
ANSEL ADAMS CENTER FOR PHOTOGRAPHY, 250 Fourth Street, (415) 495-7000. "Innovation/Imagination: 50 Years of Polaroid Photography," through July 18; "Ansel Adams: Selections From the Permanent Collection," through July 10. Hours: Daily, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M.; to 8 P.M. the first Thursday of each month. Admission: $5; $3, students; $2, the elderly and children 12 to 17; free for members and children under 12.
 
MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, 151 Third Street, (415) 357-4000. "Carleton Watkins: The Art of Perception," through Sept. 7; "Bill Viola," through Sept. 12; "Robert Rauschenberg," through Sept. 6; "Daido Moriyama: Stray Dogs," through Aug. 3. Hours: Thursdays through Tuesdays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.; to 9 P.M. on Thursdays. Admission: $8; $5, the elderly; $4, students; children under 12, free. After Thursday, $1 more.
 
PALACE OF FINE ARTS, 3601 Lyon Street, in the Marina District near the Golden Gate Bridge. Constructed in 1915 for the Panama-Pacific Exposition. Inside is the Exploratorium, a science museum where "Frogs" is on view through Sept. 12. Hours: Daily, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.; to 9 P.M. Wednesdays. Museum admission: $9; $7, students and the elderly; $5, children 6 to 17; $2.50, children 3 to 5; under 3, free. Museum information: (415) 561-0360.
 
Getting There
 
BY AIR: Continental, (800) 525-0280, has six daily nonstop flights from Newark to San Francisco Airport, with fares ranging from a special Fourth of July weekend rate of $262 (reserved seven days in advance) to the regular seven-day advance round-trip fare of $1,354 (Saturday stay-over). The 14-day advance reservation fare is $420 round trip. The last-minute fare is $950 each way. TWA, (800) 221-2000, has two daily direct flights from Kennedy International Airport; United Airlines, (800) 538-2929, six from Newark and eight from Kennedy, and Delta, (800) 221-1212, two from Kennedy.
 R. W. APPLE Jr.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A listing with the On the Road column in Weekend on Friday, about visiting San Francisco, misspelled the surname of the chef of the Zuni Cafe. She is Judy Rodgers, not Rogers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Palace of Fine Arts, a 1915 architectural gem overlooking San Francisco Bay. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. E27); The Asian Art Museum, with works from China, Japan, Korea and India, expects to move from Golden Gate Park to the old Public Library by 2002. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. E34)
 
Maps of San Francisco and San Francisco Bay. (pg. E34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (74%); HONG KONG (70%); CHINA (70%); FRANCE (70%); NORTHERN ASIA (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN GATE UNIVERSITY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); ; UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (74%); HONG KONG (70%); CHINA (70%); FRANCE (70%); NORTHERN ASIA (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); POETRY (57%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR JOSEPH PAUL 'JOE' DIMAGGIO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1999



531 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Retrain Steel Workers

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Although you rightly conclude that we should resist import quotas to protect the steel industry, you do not mention the most practical argument for opposing such legislation (editorial, June 23). 
 Placing limits on imported steel would raise the cost of every product that Americans buy that uses steel. All Americans, including steel workers, would pay more money for steel-based products, like cars, in order to save a few thousand jobs. While saving jobs is a laudable goal, wouldn't it make more sense to craft legislation that would train steel workers who become unemployed with new skills applicable to industries that need workers rather than subsidize their work in an industry that is increasingly noncompetitive?
 
SAMUEL GURKA
Bronx, June 23, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (88%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); 

PERSON: GURKA, SAMUEL

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



532 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: For the High-Minded, It's Blah, Blah, Blah;
Talks Are Cheap for Seekers of Ideas Who Are Willing to Listen

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
With Old World rivals like Paris and Berlin and New World rivals like Seattle and Silicon Valley, New York City can hardly claim to be the brain capital of the world.
But you wouldn't necessarily know that from all the talking going on. Call them seminars or lectures or discussions, but the city is truly brimming with forums for the thinking man, woman and child. In any given week an intrepid idea-seeker can find serious discussions about everything from the growing presence of Islam in America to the social history of popcorn. 
 Want to know how to cross-hybridize corn? There are talks at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. How about an in-depth look at democracy in Cuba? Check out the Brecht Forum on Tuesday.
In the age of Barnes & Noble and other super-size bookstores, literary discussion groups are meeting regularly to chat about Vietnam novels and science fiction and New Age tomes. Then there are the literary fan clubs, societies devoted to the work of late great authors like Yeats and Dickens.
Last week alone a New Yorker could find dozens of people sitting down to learn about Surrealist film, beach erosion and the history of marriage from a feminist perspective. There were appearances by seminar stars like Stephen Jay Gould, the historian, who can pack a room on a topic like "The Impossibility of Historical Prediction," and celebrity lecturers like the composer Philip Glass, whose talent for artful digression rivals that of many more experienced speakers.
All of this tossing about of ideas gives rise to a curious question: could one, by visiting many of these lectures and listening closely enough, pick up some sense of the city's intellectual zeitgeist?
The short answer is no. To be sure, there is plenty of millennial reflection going on right now, and more than a few speakers tossing around words like "calendric" and "fin de siecle."
But rather than indicating a common theme, this profusion of talkers and listeners testifies instead to the city's enormously varied intellectual appetite. It also shows off the city as a place where people with specific interests -- sometimes, exceedingly specific -- can find like-minded folk to commune with.
What follows is an account of a weeklong survey of the city's educated chatter.
The first stop, as any lecture junkie will tell you, was bound to be a big-time bookstore. Hoping to lure buyers into the stacks, chains like Barnes & Noble and Borders Books have been aggressive about scheduling authors with new books to discuss and read from their work.
On Monday, the choices included a speaker on the history of coffee at Barnes & Noble on the Upper East Side and a discussion of the work of Bernhard Schlink at the Barnes & Noble in Forest Hills, Queens.
No. And no. Instead, my choice was a lecture by Paul Levinson, a professor of communications history and philosophy at Fordham University, whose most recent book is "Digital McLuhan," a look at the lasting influence of Marshall McLuhan in the age of the Internet. The locale was a Borders at the World Trade Center, with an audience of about 40, including a man who slept before, during and after the event.
Mr. Levinson, flanked by stacks of photography books and others merely labeled "Art," expounded on likenesses between the futuristic visions of Mr. McLuhan, who invented the term Global Village, and today's World Wide Web.
"Mr. McLuhan was not able to write on the Web, but his approach was Web-like," Mr. Levinson said, citing Mr. McLuhan's propensity for short chapters and nonlinear thought in his books. The comments drew a round of emphatic nods.
"What would Marshall McLuhan have said about the Internet and the Web?" Mr. Levinson said. "It's impossible to say." He paused and added with a laugh: "Except that he would have had a lot to say about it."
Tuesday's schedule was to begin early, with a 7:30 A.M. talk with the television commentator Cokie Roberts at the 92d Street Y. But upon arriving, I discovered a sacred rule of the intellectual set: they like to sleep late. The event had been canceled.
The 92d Street Y is one of the city's premier temples of talk, a list that includes the New York Public Library, the Asia Society and the Pierpont Morgan Library, which has a series of afternoon discussions. And while summer may be a slow time for the city's colleges and universities, they generally offer countless lectures that are open to the public.
Many churches and museums also offer issue-oriented events. Ms. Roberts, in fact, would make an appearance at Trinity Church later that afternoon, speaking on religion and politics.
For true intellectual heft, however, perhaps few spots can rival the Brecht Forum, where Mr. Gould spoke on Tuesday night. The first words I heard upon entering were "imperialist dialectic interpretation of history."
The forum is on the 10th floor of 122 West 27th Street in Chelsea, a loft space where papier mache wall hangings and pamphlets jockey for visitors' attention.
Mr. Gould had drawn a standing-room-only crowd dotted with older men with ponytails, older women with spectacles and graduate student types scribbling notes on legal pads. The amiable Mr. Gould, with a pair of glasses hung around his neck, hit upon Karl Marx's funeral ("Only nine people were there"), the year 2000 ("a wonderfully arbitrary transition") and Yogi Berra's wisdom ("The future ain't what it used to be") before finally alighting on his thesis: that people, especially scientists, are terrible at predicting the future.
As an example, Mr. Gould told the story of an early chairman of Mercedes-Benz who once predicted that Europe would never sustain more than a million cars. The reason? That the Continent's citizenry could only ever produce a million chauffeurs.
Mr. Gould's point was that the underlying biases of class, race and economics often skewed any possibility of prognostication. "Scientific biases prevent accurate prediction," he said. "And always have."
There was much scribbling as I left.
The next stop was the Kitchen, the venerable experimental theater space on West 19th Street, the site of a batch of summertime lectures by members of the Kitchen's artistic family.
The seats were nearly all filled with a younger crowd than that at the Brecht Forum. The lights dimmed theatrically as Mr. Glass approached a small table draped in black and lighted by a single overhead spotlight. He immediately said that his lecture, titled "Collaboration and the New Technology," presented a problem.
"I made up the title months ago," Mr. Glass said. "Now, I've had to figure out what it was about."
Speaking in a voice barely above a burble, Mr. Glass touched on the miraculous technology of the piano (see lecture title), and his artistic collaborations (see lecture title) with everyone from Jerome Robbins to Martin Scorsese. But the most absorbing moments came when Mr. Glass's focus strayed a bit.
"CD-ROM is already on the way out," he said at one point, seeming alarmed and amused all at once. "Did you know that?"
Or: "I've noticed my cat doesn't watch television. Does yours?"
Or: "The only place the composer is the boss is in the opera house. That's why I write so many operas."
At evening's end a young composer asked Mr. Glass's advice about the profession. Mr. Glass puzzled for a bit and finally answered: "Think what you could do that would make your teachers really angry. That would probably be the most interesting thing to do."
The following night I tried a couple of the city's newer venues, the two-year-old Newseum and Joe's Pub, the recently opened cabaret spot at the Public Theater.
The Newseum auditorium is a sleek Madison Avenue lecture hall popular with that famously loquacious breed, the journalist. Booking reporters as speakers has its drawbacks, of course; a talk on Monday by the photojournalist Harry Benson was canceled when he was called away on assignment.
Helen Thomas, veteran White House correspondent and recent author of a memoir, spoke about her experiences. Beltway reminiscences ensued: of Lyndon B. Johnson, who "couldn't stand anybody speaking for him"; Hillary Clinton, who "just hates the press"; and President Clinton, who "has been very nice to me."
The crowd, unswayed by Ms. Thomas's assertion that reporters shouldn't be celebrities, ate it up.
Joe's Pub, which usually presents music, turned literary Wednesday with a selection of readings from The New Yorker's latest fiction issue. Special attractions included celebrity readers, girls in slinky dresses looking to impress New Yorker editors and lots of cocktails.
The final evening of talk, Thursday, highlights what may be the seminar scene's most important contribution to the city's intellectual landscape: bringing together people with particular interests. At the Lesbian and Gay Community Center in the West Village, for example, E. J. Graff, a writer, discussed same-sex marriages.
Then at Borders Books at East 57th Street and Park Avenue, four African-American authors gathered to discuss the topic of "The Importance of Writing About Contemporary Black Life." The audience was almost exclusively black, a marked change from most of the other events I attended. One at a time, each author discussed pressing issues for black artists, including stereotyping by publishers and the complications of success for blacks in America.
"I started writing because I wanted to write about where we are now," said Benilde Little, a novelist. "We are the most educated, most affluent, and probably the most confused."
Events like this, she said, offer an opportunity to reflect on those confusions.
"You have to have a community where we can be ourselves," Ms. Little said, "drop the masks and let our hair down."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The composer Philip Glass addressing an audience at the Kitchen on "Collaboration and the New Technology." The author Valerie Wilson Weslie, below, spoke about pressing issues for black artists. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BKS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (83%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (73%); CUBA (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (73%); CUBA (56%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: LECTURES AND LECTURING LITERATURE (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); WRITERS (88%); HISTORY (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MILLENNIUM (65%); RELIGION (55%); EROSION (51%); COFFEE (50%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE STEPHEN JAY GOULD (55%); PHILIP GLASS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



533 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES;
Copper Hits a One-Month High On News of U.S. Mine Closings

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Copper rose yesterday to a one-month high after the Broken Hill Proprietary Company, the world's second-biggest producer, said that it would close unprofitable United States mines in a move aimed at shrinking a global surplus.
Broken Hill will close mines that account for about 1.7 percent of global production because they lost money as prices slumped last month to a 12-year low. The drop reflected a glut caused by rising output from low-cost producers in Latin America and a slowdown in Asian demand, analysts said. 
 "We'll see prices recover a bit, but it's unlikely they'll go much higher from here," Kevin Norrish, minerals economist at Barclays Capital in London, said. "More production cutbacks are required."
Copper for July delivery settled up 2.65 cents, or 3.99 percent, to 69.00 cents a pound on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices are still almost 8 percent lower than a year ago. On May 28, copper fell to 60.8 cents a pound, the lowest since 1987.
The jump in prices helped lift shares of copper mining companies, like the Phelps Dodge Corporation and Asarco Inc. Metals companies were the biggest gainers in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, with the S.& P. index of five metals companies up 6 percent at 191.18.
Broken Hill, an Australian company, said it would close the mines in Arizona and Nevada in August, including a smelter, where it costs about 65 cents to produce a pound of copper. Codelco of Chile, the world's biggest copper mining company, produces at a cost of 45 cents to 50 cents a pound.
Copper prices rallied 16 percent during April on signs of improvement in Asia and possible output cuts, only to retreat in May.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks copper prices (near-month contract), since January 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BHP (NYSE) (93%); BHP (ASX) (93%); FCX (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (93%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (93%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (68%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (68%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (68%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (68%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (68%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (68%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (68%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (68%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (68%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (68%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO BHP BILLITON LTD (93%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (68%); ASARCO INC (68%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); CHILE (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MINES AND MINING METALS MARKETS (90%); MINE CLOSINGS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); COPPER MINING (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); COPPER INDUSTRY (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



534 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Give Economy Another Boost

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25

 BODY:
Torrid consumer spending helped the economy grow at a brisk annual rate of 4.3 percent in the first quarter of the year, the Commerce Department reported today.
Economists believe growth has slowed to about 3.5 percent in the current quarter, but they say that is probably not enough to dissuade the Federal Reserve Board from raising interest rates as a caution against inflation. 
 The 4.3 percent increase from January through March in the gross domestic product -- the nation's output of goods and services -- was slightly better than the 4.1 percent rate estimated a month ago, the Commerce Department said.
The improvement reflected a slight revision in the trade deficit, which, while still at a record high, was $6.5 billion lower than the Government estimated earlier.
The economy's robust first-quarter pace was far above expectations. That has bolstered expectations that the Fed, at its meeting next week, will push up short-term interest rates to keep the expansion from igniting inflation.
In a separate report, the National Association of Realtors said today that sales of existing single-family homes plunged 4 percent in May, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.04 million units. That was the lowest level in six months. The drop coincided with rising mortgage rates.
In the first quarter, consumer spending continued to power economic growth, rising at an annual rate of 6.7 percent, the best showing in more than a decade, the Government said.
Financial markets have grown increasingly nervous in recent weeks that the Fed will raise interest rates.
The gross domestic product report indicated that inflation remained low. An inflation gauge tied to the gross domestic product rose at an annual rate of just 1.2 percent in the first quarter, compared with the 1.1 percent previously estimated.
The gross domestic product report showed that business investment, that is, spending on new equipment and plants, rose at an annual rate of 8.5 percent in the first quarter, even better than the estimate last month of 7.9 percent growth. Corporate profits, meanwhile, rose in the first quarter to an annual rate of $47.1 billion, a turnaround from a drop of $5.3 billion in the fourth quarter.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph plots annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation since 1994. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; CREDIT; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



535 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE YEN GAINS. The dollar fell against the yen on speculation the Japanese Government will consider further measures to stimulate the country's economy. The dollar settled at 121.43 yen, down from 121.78 on Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since January 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); TRENDS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



536 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Filling School Gaps

 BODY:
Now that Chancellor Rudy Crew has removed so many administrators from New York City's worst schools, he faces the far more difficult task of replacing them. Finding good candidates to do these thankless jobs will not be easy, which is why he has hired a headhunting firm from Washington State to scout for replacements. But the Chancellor and his vocal critic, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, will now have to address the underlying problem -- the educator brain drain, particularly to the suburbs.
Each year the city loses some of its best educators to softer and better-paying jobs elsewhere, while the pool of replacements, especially administrators, grows steadily smaller. There were only about a dozen applicants for the top job at Manhattan's elite Stuyvesant High School. At less prestigious schools, the number of applicants can be as small as three or four. A major reason is that the principals' union and the city have been bogged down in contract negotiations for more than three years, despite a city proposal that salaries would go up almost 30 percent if principals gave up tenure. Educators who gamble on these high-wire managerial positions do not need tenure, but they deserve a hefty salary boost. If the union continues to balk, the State Legislature should break this stalemate, ending principals' tenure with a law. 
 Teachers, whose contract will expire next year, are also increasingly hard to find. The rate of new teachers leaving after a few years is almost twice what it is in other big cities. Moreover, the city's classrooms are increasingly run by uncertified teachers as many of the best educators are set to retire over the next four to five years.
With their annual pay at midcareer a dismal $41,000 a year in comparison with almost $60,000 in richer suburbs, city teachers still received some promising news this week. Dr. Crew and Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, negotiated a package for extra pay and benefits to certified teachers willing to tackle jobs in failing schools. This city-union partnership, as well as Ms. Weingarten's willingness to be flexible for this experiment, bodes well for these needy schools. The good will generated by this agreement also raises hopes that teachers' salaries will be substantially raised next year, at least enough to keep the best from fleeing the city. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDITORIALS; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS; PRINCIPALS (SCHOOL); TENURE; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); SUBURBS (70%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



537 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Profit Reports Help Equities Post First Gains in a Week

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average yesterday eked out its first gain in a week after a report showed first-quarter profits rose almost 50 percent faster than previously estimated with little sign of inflation.
Alcoa, the No. 1 aluminum producer, and Phelps Dodge, the copper company, rose on optimism that rising prices would increase their earnings. America Online declined after negative comments from Henry Blodget, a Merrill Lynch analyst. 
 Trading was the slowest since Dec. 30 as investors waited for the meeting Tuesday and Wednesday of the Federal Open Market Committee. Investors expect the Federal Reserve's policy-making panel to raise short-term interest rates a quarter percentage point to head off inflation. The question is whether the Fed will signal that it plans additional increases this year.
Investors are waiting "to see if they give an indication that they're going to do another increase in August," said Robert Streed, a money manager for the Northern Trust Company. "You might as well wait and see what happens. It certainly hasn't paid to be heroic" and buy stocks.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 17.73 points, to 10,552.56. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.47 point, to 1,315.31. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 1.34 points, to 2,552.65.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 4/32, to 87 26/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.15 percent from 6.16 percent on Thursday.
With investors leaving early on a summer Friday, some 623 million shares changed hands on the Big Board, below the three-month average of 778 million. "Everybody did what they had to do by 11 o'clock Eastern time, and the market's been very quiet since," said Todd Clark, managing director of listed trading at Schwab Capital Markets and Trading Group in San Francisco.
Alcoa rose 2 1/4, to 62 5/8, after another Merrill Lynch analyst, Daniel Roling, reiterated his buy rating on the aluminum producer and said the stock could reach 75 in 12 months, up 15 percent from his previous target. Mr. Roling cited cost improvement and better-than-expected aluminum prices for the quarter.
Phelps Dodge rose 3 5/16, to 61 11/16, after Broken Hill Proprietary, the copper producer, said it would shut its United States mines, helping cut a global glut of copper. Broken Hill's American depository receipts rose 1/2, to 22 9/16.
America Online fell 3 5/16, to 102 13/16. Mr. Blodget said the on-line service provider might not be able to exceed analysts' earnings estimates by as wide a margin as in the past because of the growth of free Internet access in Europe.
Other Internet stocks also fell. The service provider Mindspring Enterprises lost 4 9/16, to 77 9/16, and E*Trade Group lost 1 3/4, to 36 7/16.
After-tax corporate profits rose a revised 6.2 percent in the first quarter, up from the previously estimated 4.3 percent gain, after falling 1 percent in the fourth quarter, the Commerce Department said. The report contained little to suggest that the Fed would raise interest rates by more than the half percentage point the market is expecting by the end of the year.
The Fed committee said after its last meeting that it was leaning toward raising interest rates to head off inflation.
The Goldman, Sachs strategist Abby Joseph Cohen told Bloomberg Television that next week's likely interest-rate increase by the Fed was already reflected in stock prices. The nation's economy shows no signs of overheating and companies are showing strong increases in quarterly earnings, she said.
"Federal Reserve action will not be harmful to the stock market," she said, although she noted that a temporary decline was possible in the aftermath of the news. "To the extent that the Federal Reserve convinces folks that they're focusing on inflation and taking actions to ensure that the cycle lasts as long as possible, it could be helpful."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since . (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (69%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (69%); ALCOA INC (58%); AOL INC (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COPPER INDUSTRY (89%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); INTEREST RATES (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); 

PERSON: DANIEL ROLING (57%); HENRY BLODGET (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



538 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Latin America And Europe To Talk Trade

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, June 25

 BODY:
In an effort to increase trade and gain a counterweight to American global economic dominance, leaders of the world's second- and third-largest trading blocs are to meet here this weekend and early next week in the first Latin American-European Summit, one that is already proving contentious on several basic issues.
The gathering will bring together heads of state from 33 Latin American and Caribbean countries and their counterparts from the 15 nations of the European Union. The centerpiece of the meeting is the prospect for negotiations for a free- trade agreement between the European Union and Mercosur, the six-nation South American bloc. 
 With a population of more than 200 million and a combined economy of more than $1 trillion a year, Mercosur is the largest trading bloc after the North American Free Trade Agreement group -- comprising the United States, Canada and Mexico -- and the European Union. Mercosur's full members are Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. Bolivia and Chile are associate members.
"There are really going to be two meetings going on, one with all of Latin America and the Caribbean present, which will be largely rhetorical," said Helio Jaguaribe of the Institute for Political and Social Studies, a research group here. "But there will also be a meeting within the meeting between Europe and Mercosur, where the real business will take place."
For Latin America, the conference offers a rare opportunity to gain concessions from the United States and Europe by playing them off against each other.
At the December 1994 Summit of the Americas in Miami, the United States and 32 Latin American and Caribbean nations agreed to establish a Free Trade Area of the Americas and set 2005 as a deadline. But that process has stalled, and many nations in the region have shifted their focus to reaching agreements among themselves and with European and Asian nations.
"From the Brazilian point of view, we are not putting too much pressure on the hemispheric free-trade-area idea," Fernando Henrique Cardoso, the President of Brazil, said in a recent interview.
The idea for the European-Latin American summit meeting emerged from a visit to Brazil in 1997 by Jacques Chirac, the President of France. The notion was endorsed by Brazil and its Mercosur partners, who see stronger ties to Europe as offering the only possible counterweight to the United States' historical hegemony.
But as talks for an agenda for the conference advanced, France has proved to be the main obstacle to beginning formal negotiations aimed at a free-trade pact. The Mercosur group wants nothing excluded, while the French, fearing that a flood of meat, grain, sugar and even wine from Mercosur would ruin its heavily subsidized farmers, have been insisting that agriculture be excluded.
"Europe has to make a decision," Mr. Cardoso said. "If it really believes that it has a role to play, it has to take into account that the interests of other parts of the world include agriculture."
But if Europe insists on its current agricultural policies, he said, "Well, then we always have the Free Trade Area of the Americas."
The French position has been resisted both by Germany, the European Union's biggest member, and Portugal and Spain, which have built on their historical linguistic and cultural ties to become, along with Britain and Italy, large investors in the region. "Europe must understand that it is strategic for its global position to deepen relations with Mercosur," Portugal's Prime Minister, Antonio Guterres, said recently.
In a meeting in Luxembourg on Monday, the European Union agreed to grant its delegations here the power to authorize formal talks. Mercosur officials said that step was no guarantee that there would be success here.
Had Europe failed to grant that authority, it would have created "a very awkward, very difficult, incomprehensible situation," Manuel Marin, a Spaniard who is the European Union's top expert in Latin American affairs, told reporters. "I can't propose marriage and then 20 days before the wedding say, 'I don't like you,' " he said.
There has also been some disagreement about a timetable for negotiations. The Latin Americans are eager to begin talks immediately and want to set a deadline of 2005 to coincide with the schedule of the hemispheric free-trade talks, while the French have been suggesting a delay.
"For the United States, the best thing that could happen would be a postponement" of talks between Europe and Mercosur, said Gilberto Dupas, coordinator of the International Affairs division of the Institute for Advanced Studies at the University of Sao Paulo. "The tracks are already being laid for the Free Trade Area of the Americas, and once you have that in place, it is easy for the locomotive to start moving."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Brazilian soldier stands guard while a red carpet is put down for leaders of the Latin American-European Summit, which includes 33 Latin American and Caribbean countries and 15 European nations. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (99%); EUROPE (99%); BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); FRANCE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); CHILE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (70%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET) APCO ARGENTINA INC (56%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET) SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; EUROPE; LATIN AMERICA (99%); EUROPE (99%); BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); FRANCE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); CHILE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (70%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SUMMIT CONFERENCES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); INTERVIEWS (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (60%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY JACQUES CHIRAC (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



539 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Clinton Looks Home

 BODY:
After an all-consuming detour to press the war in Yugoslavia, and with only 18 months left in office, President Clinton has returned to his domestic agenda. Its emphasis, Mr. Clinton indicated yesterday at his news conference, is to get a budget deal with Congress that shores up Medicare and Social Security, while passing gun control and protections for patients in health maintenance organizations. He will also work to alleviate poverty in parts of the country that have not benefited from the economic boom. The President's new drive on these issues is welcome. It is not clear that the partisan rancor left over from impeachment, and extending into the recent gun control debate, will allow for compromise. But with the distraction of the war fading, it will be worth a try.
The President reached out repeatedly to Republican leaders to work with him on various issues. His renewed request for campaign finance reform was especially encouraging. On the budget, Mr. Clinton seemed to suggest a willingness to accommodate Republican demands for using at least some of the surplus for tax cuts. His gesture may have been a tacit recognition of reports that the Congressional Budget Office will raise its estimates of the budget surplus, making more money available for possible tax cuts, increased defense spending, debt reduction and rescuing the big national retirement programs from future insolvency. 
 Reaching consensus on these issues will not be easy with a campaign heating up. That was clear as Mr. Clinton was asked repeatedly about political matters, including the possible Senate run by his wife in New York. He seemed to be defensive about his relationship with Vice President Al Gore, who sharply criticized Mr. Clinton's moral lapses in announcing his own campaign for the Presidency.
Despite Mr. Clinton's intentions to concentrate on domestic issues, NATO's attempts to pacify Kosovo may well continue to demand his attention. The President became most animated and reflective yesterday when he was asked about the war in the Balkans. To questions about why he had not gotten a "bounce" in his approval ratings, Mr. Clinton said he did not much care. Then he narrowed his eyes and flashed his temper in declaring that Serbs would not get "one red cent" of reconstruction aid until they "get out of denial" on their ethnic rampage in Kosovo and replace Slobodan Milosevic as President.
As for Congress, Mr. Clinton seemed to agree when reminded that some Democrats and Republicans would rather run on their disputes over domestic issues than reach bipartisan agreement for legislation. He was right to say that everyone does better in elections when there are results to run on. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); GUN CONTROL (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); MEDICARE (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (56%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



540 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4936 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the President's Remarks on Kosovo and National Issues

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a news conference today by President Clinton, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription agency:
 
Prepared Remarks
 Earlier today, in a speech at Georgetown University, I discussed the opportunities now before our nation. Before I take questions, let me just take a moment to recap what I believe is America's agenda in the coming months. 
 Our trip to Europe advanced America's ideals and interests. Working with our partners, we won an agreement to ban abusive child labor everywhere in the world, took new steps to strengthen the global economy, agreed to triple the debt relief provided for many of the poorest nations, and to strengthen democracy and reform in Russia.
We also worked together to put in place the building blocks of peace in Kosovo, and to put the Balkans on a shared path to a prosperous, united future. I will meet with the region's leaders later this summer to give the process further momentum.
I met with Kosovar refugees in Macedonia who are planning to return home. They thanked America and our allies for giving them a chance to reclaim their lives on their native land. I also met with and thanked some of the American airmen and women who achieved this success, and with some of our and other NATO troops who are going into Kosovo now to make sure we win the peace. They know that they're doing the right thing, and I am very proud of all of them.
While America is enjoying success abroad, it is important that we keep pushing forward on our challenges here at home. This is a time of great hope for our nation. Yesterday we learned that the Americaneconomy grew at 4.3 percent in the first three months of this year. America plainly is on the right track. But we will be judged by what we do with this opportunity, whether we seize it or squander it in petty bickering and partisan animosity. There will be plenty of time for politics in the months to come. This summer should be a season of progress.
We should start by acting quickly on issues where most lawmakers, Democratic and Republican, agree. Legislation to let disabled Americans keep their Medicaid health insurance when they go to work. An increase in the minimum wage. Campaign finance reform. A strong and enforceable patient's bill of rights. I was heartened that earlier today the House overwhelmingly passed legislation making sure that foster children are not cast out in the cold when their time in foster care ends. This is a vital issue, one that Hillary has championed for many years, and I am very pleased by the House action.
Then we must turn to broader ways and in some ways more difficult challenges facing our nation.
First, we have a duty to maintain the fiscal discipline that has produced our prosperity and use it to strengthen Social Security and Medicare for the 21st century, and to pay down our national debt. On Tuesday I will propose the detailed plan to modernize Medicare, cutting cost, improving service and helping senior citizens with their greatest growing need -- affordable prescription drugs.
Second, we must widen the circle of opportunity by investing in education while demanding accountability and insisting that Congress keep our commitment of last year to finish hiring 100,000 more teachers, to lower class size in the early grades.
Third, in two weeks I will be joined by corporate, civic and political leaders of both parties on a four-day tour of America's new markets, the places in our country which have not yet felt the surge of our prosperity, to mobilize the private sector to bring jobs and growth to our poorest neighborhoods, and to build support for our new markets initiative, to give tax credits and loan guarantees to those who invest in America on the same terms we give to those invest in developing economies overseas.
And fourth, in the wake of the tragedy at Littleton, we must continue to meet the challenge of youth violence. Hillary and I are developing a national campaign on youth violence, working with parents, educators, the entertainment industry and others, but we also must take sensible steps to take guns out of the hands of criminals and away from children. We can't expect young people to stand up to violence if Congress won't stand up to the gun lobby.
I proposed, and with a tie-breaking vote by Vice President Gore, the Senate passed the measure to close the gun show loophole. The Senate also passed legislation to require child safety locks, to ban large ammunition clips for assault weapons, to ban violent juveniles from owning handguns as adults. Two weeks ago, the Republicans in the House blocked that measure. They would even weaken the current law by letting criminals store their guns at pawn shops.
Now, there is still time for Congress to act. The Republican leaders could appoint legislators as negotiators to craft a bill thatincludes the tough Senate provisions. I hope they will do that and send me a strong bill. Plainly, the country wants that. Again, I say, this is sort of like the patient's bill of rights -- it's really not a partisan issue anywhere but Washington, D.C. I hope they will send me a strong bill. If they send me one that weakens current law, I will send it back to them and keep working until we get the job done right.
Now this is, admittedly, an ambitious agenda, but it can all be done in the coming months. I will use all the powers available to me as President, working with Congress and with my executive authority. I will summon the citizens of our country to help us to solve these problems. This is a good time for America, but we will be judged by whether we make the most of it. I look forward to making the effort. . . .
 
Questions and Answers
 Q. Mr. President, this morning and again just now, you made references to a summer of progress, and you were calling for bipartisanship to try to accomplish things in the next few months. I'm just wondering, with the 2000 campaign obviously heating up and growing in intensity, do you feel there's more of an urgency to act right away, within the coming months?
A. Well, I think----. For one thing, I think it would be to everyone's advantage to continue to make progress.
As I always tell Republicans and Democrats, no matter how much we do, there will still be plenty of things on which there is honest disagreement over which the next election can be fought; that is, it's just in the nature of things. That's healthy. That's good. That's the two-party system in America.
But we are all hired by the American people to work here, day in and day out, week in and week out, and we make a grave mistake -- and it's almost never good politics -- to do the wrong thing; that is, to take a pass on making progress when you can do it.
And this is a very unusual moment, where we have sustained prosperity, the longest peacetime expansion in our history. We've gone from having the biggest deficits in history to having the biggest surpluses in history. And yet we have these looming demographic challenges of Social Security and Medicare. We have----. And we have these big issues that are right before us now, the ones I mentioned, on which there is basically broad agreement. So I think that it would be good for America and therefore good for everyone involved if we go ahead and do this.
And I think that obviously, the closer you get to the election, perhaps the more difficult it will be. But I expect -- I'll make you a prediction here -- I expect that we'll get some good things done in the year 2000 before the Congress recesses finally for the election then. I expect to keep working right up to the very end, and I think that we will continue to make progress. But the most important thing is the attitude of the main players in Congress, insofar as Congress has to play a role in this.

 Q. Sir, I'd like to ask you about Medicare and your plans that you are going to be announcing next week.
This is a program that tens of millions of Americans depend on. And yet in 15 years, it will be effectively bankrupt. And you are about the propose what could be a very costly additional benefit in the prescription benefit. Why are you going to do that, sir? Isn't that going to make the problem worse, not better?
A. No. For one thing -- but let me remind you that we have taken a lot of very tough positions to reform Medicare since 1993. When I took office, Medicare was supposed to go broke this year. And now it is out to -- what is it? 2015 or so. So we have taken a lot of important positions already.
And as a matter of fact, as I am sure you are all aware, a lot of the health-care providers -- particularly rural hospitals, nursing homes, home-health providers, a disproportionate share of hospitals -- that's the funding -- for the folks listening to us, that is basically inner-city hospitals and teaching hospitals that have a whole lot of poor folks they take care of who aren't reimbursed; a lot of those people believe that our savings are too great. But we've taken some very tough actions to try to lengthen the life of the Medicare Trust Fund.
When I make my proposals on Tuesday, there will be more to lengthen the life further, to make sure that we get through the first quarter century and maybe more of this -- of the new century with Medicare alive and well.
But if you look at the long run, I think it's important that we propose a prescription drug benefit, because life expectancy is going up, drugs are being constantly developed which help to improve the quality as well as the length of life, and if they are properly taken, they can actually reduce long-term hospitalization and other medical costs.
Now it is absolutely true that if we design this wrong, it could wind up being a lot more expensive than rosy scenarios suggest. But if you look at my record here over the last six and a half years, I've tried to be quite conservative in my budget projections and quite responsible in handling the budget of the country. And you will see that, I think, reflected in the way I make this proposal, including the prescription drugs.
But I don't really think there's any alternative here. You've got 15 million Americans, seniors out there, without any kind of coverage for their medicine. You've got millions and millions of others with inadequate or highly expensive coverage. And I just -- I really believe that this is the most significant health care need that senior citizens have today.
And I believe that over the long run, the proper availability, properly priced, of prescription medicine will actually not only lengthen lives and improve the quality of life of our seniors and improve their security, their state of mind, but it will also, long, long term, save medical costs because it will keep people out of hospitals and out of more expensive treatments.
Q. What is your strategy now, Mr. President, for a comprehensive campaign finance reform, to really make it pass?
A. Well, I think the best strategy is to get, you know, a clear majority of the House of Representatives to demand that it come up, and then try to put enough pressure on to get the Senate leaders to let it come up. Basically, the Republican leadership in the Senate has said that they're just not going to permit it to come up because they don't want their people who will vote against it to have a recorded vote on it, and they don't want to run the risk that they've got enough of their folks that would vote with all of ours -- see, all of our people are for it. We've got 100 percent of the Democrats in the Senate for it.
And so what I think we have to do is to keep it on the front burner enough so that the discomfort level rises high enough that an actual vote is allowed. All I'd really ask for here is a vote. If we'd just get a vote on the bill, I will be very well satisfied, and I think it will come out just fine.
 
 Q. When Vice President Gore announced officially for President, he chose a date when you were going to be out of the country. And according to Mrs. Clinton's supporters, if she announces her exploratory committee in the next couple of weeks, it would be at a time when you've got a commitment to go out to South Dakota. Do you think your personal behavior has made you something of a liability to those who are running? And did you take any -- take it personally when Vice President Gore made his announcement and seemed to set himself so clearly separate from you when it came to issues of family?
A. Well, first of all, I thought, as I have said repeatedly, I thought the Vice President had a great announcement. And what he really said in his announcement -- I actually heard it, so I don't have to have it characterized for me -- what he said in his announcement was that he had had more experience than anybody running, which is true, that he would put forward more specific ideas about what he would do if he were elected President than anyone has to date, by far, which is true, and that the choice before the American people was whether we would build on the progress that we've made for the last six years or turn around and go backwards, which is what I think the real choice will be before the American people. So I approved of that.
And as far as his doing it when I was out of the country, I thought that was a good thing. Very often, you'd be amazed how many times over the last six and a half years, we have planned for certain announcements to be made by the Vice President when I was out of the country because that way, it gets -- I mean, far be it for us to try to maneuver the press, but he gets more -- he gets better coverage and I get better coverage. I'm out of the country, so -- and he gets better coverage. So I thought that was a good thing. . . .

Q. It seems to me that one of our big issues is parenting. That causes divorces, and it causes unhappy children and the break-up of families. Is there any way that we can design a national program to correct or to educate people to be better parents?
A. You know, it is interesting. To go to your point, when Hillary and I decided that we ought to have this grass-roots campaign to try to protect children against violence and we began to talk to parents who started the Mothers Against Violence movement in Washington State and others, one of the things that we learned, obviously, is that a lot of young people wind up being -- especially really troubled young people can often be almost strangers in their own homes.
And we assume that people ought to just know how to do the most important jobs in life. And they're very often reluctant to ask for help, but I think one of the things that we have to try to do is to develop the kind of supports that parents need to do a better job. And it's a much harder job now than it used to be, especially since the average parent is away from his or her children for 22 hours a week more than was the case 30 years ago. So I do think that we need to do some more. . .
Q. Sir, we're told that next week the Administration will announce that the Federal budget surplus is even larger than you had previously projected. Given that, and given your words today about bipartisanship, do you think now it might be possible to tackle Medicare and Social Security reform, and perhaps reach out to Republicans and open the door to a larger tax cut than you have discussed previously?
A. First, I'm not against tax cuts. I'm not against giving the American people some of this money back from our present prosperity right now.
The question is, what kind of tax cut? Who benefits from it? How should it be designed? And how should it be handled to guarantee that we're going to take care of first things first -- strengthening Social Security and Medicare, paying down the debt, continuing to secure the health of the American economy? Keep in mind, what produced the surplus was the strength of the American economy, the fact that we had the will to do the very tough things in 1993 and that we followed it up with a balanced budget act in 1997.
So my plan has tax cuts. The U.S.A. accounts are worth literally hundreds and hundreds of dollars to most families every year. They could be worth a quarter of a million dollars to a family over their lifetime, the most progressive inducement to save in the history of the country. We had-- --. We have tax cuts fully paid for already for long-term care, for child care, for school construction, for investing in the inner cities. So I'm not against tax cuts.
We have had tax cuts in the past, big tax cuts for tuition tax credits for college, the Hope scholarship tax cuts, tax cuts for working families with modest incomes, the child-care tax credit, $500 per child. We've had lots of tax cuts. I am not opposed to that.
What I want to do is to make sure that before we go off and start cutting taxes by some arbitrary, large amount, we take care of first things first. We need to know that we're going to modernize and strengthen Social Security for the 21st century, that we're going to modernize and strengthen Medicare for the 21st century, and that we're going to do it in a way that will enable us to continue to pay the debt down.
There will still money for a tax cut, and a sizable one. Will I work with the Congress on that? Of course, I will. If I want to pass it, I have to work with them. They are in the majority. Of course, I will.
But first things first. We have got to get our priorities in order here.
The American people plainly expect us, first of all, to keep the economy going. And the best way to do that is to send a signal to the markets that we have resolved Social Security, we have resolved Medicare and we are paying the debt down. That is the most important thing we could to guarantee long-term economic growth.
And secondly, the only other point I want to make is, I do not believe that it is responsible to have a tax cut if the impact of the tax cut, plus the defense increases that we have had to adopt, plus the highway expenditures that the Congress wants to adopt, is to cut education or cut health care or cut our investments in the environment. So there is enough money to do all these things and to do it really well with great discipline, but we have to have our priorities in order.
Q. The polls are also showing that although people do acknowledge that they're doing better in the economy and that they're doing well personally, they show a deep concern for the nation's moral fabric and, actually, that concern seems to be growing. What responsibility do you, personally, take for that? And what can you in the White House do to address these moral problems that seem to be cropping up more and more in the polls?
A. Well, I think people are worried about, I think the most important thing on that is what happened, the shattering effect that Littleton had. In terms of what happened to me and the impeachment issue, I did what I could by telling the American people what I was going to do; that I was going to go back to work being the best President I could be, and I was going to go back to work to try to repair my family life. I have worked very hard for a year to do that. And the public, at the time, had a strong response to that. That's all I can do and that's what I have done. I have done that very faithfully. So I don't think that's what's going on.
I think people are worried when they see, you know, the fabric of life still under great strain, in spite of the fact that we have quite a large amount of prosperity. And I think what we all have to do is to ask yourselves what can we do to reinforce the ability of families to raise their children, to teach them right from wrong, to increase the chances that they'll be able to live strong, whole lives. And I believe, therefore, that there is in that sense a moral component to the debate we're having over guns.
I mean, basically, we know now----. Let me just give you one example. We know from the experience with the Brady bill that if we do background checks, thousands of people at gun shows, thousands of people who shouldn't buy guns won't get them. Now, we know that. I think that's a positive moral value.
But people on the other side essentially say, "Yeah, but we don't want to be inconvenienced." And when people see inconvenience elevated over the life of a child, in this context I think that causes some problems. We know that in the case of the patient's bill of rights, that people think it's a moral issue if they need to see a specialist or they need -- if they get hurt in an accident and they can't go to the nearest emergency room. They know that. And when they see, in effect, someone else's convenience elevated over that, I think that's a problem for them.
So I think that there are lots----. This is a complicated thing. But my own view of that is what we have to do is not pretend that the Government can solve all the moral questions, not evade what people have to do personally in their own lives with their own families, but neither can we take the dodge that the Government has no responsibility.
And that's why -- I tried so hard after that Littleton incident -- that is why I am so disappointed in what Congress did in the House on this gun issue -- because I tried so hard after that Littleton incident not to play politics, not to point the finger at anybody, not to say, "Oh well, it is this, that or the other thing"; you know that I went to Hollywood; I challenged the entertainment community, even though they had done far more to try to move the ball forward than anybody in the gun community until the gun manufacturers started helping. And they have done a good job, too, a lot of them.
And I still believe that people think that there is too much of "everybody for himself" and that people can get away with what they do because of they -- their position they'll do it.
And you know, I think what I tried to do was to acknowledge that, to whatever extent I had done that, it was dead wrong, and I was going to spend the rest of my life trying to rectify that, which is all anybody can do. And that's why -- and I think most people accept that. They'd rather have somebody do that than go around trying to give a lot of speeches about how good they are and then open the door for the gun lobby to run the Congress. . . .
Q. Mr. President, wartime Presidents, even the great ones -- Lincoln, Wilson or Roosevelt -- all discovered that wars never went exactly the way they planned it. In Kosovo, what surprised you or went a way that you didn't expect? And what lessons did you learn in Kosovo?
A. The bombing went on----. I had two models in my mind on what would happen with the bombing campaign. I thought it would either be over within a couple of days, because Mr. Milosevic would see we were united, or if he decided to sustain the damage to his country, that it would take quite a long while for the damage to actually reach the point where it was unsustainable. It took only a little longer than I thought it would, once we got into the second model.
But I was surprised about some of the things. I was surprised that it took----. I was surprised, on the one hand, that we only, that we lost no pilots. I was surprised by that. I was surprised that we lost only two planes and no pilots. I know that from your point of view, there were a lot of civilian casualties, but that's because you got to cover them, as opposed to covering the civilian casualties of the Gulf War. If you talk to any military person who was involved in both conflicts, they will tell you that there were far, far more civilian casualties in Iraq -- I mean many more, by several times as many.
I was a little surprised that we had no more problems than we did in maintaining our allied unity, given the enormous pressures that were on some of our allies. And I think that gives you some indication about the depth of conviction people had that this was right.
And let me just say this: I think one way to understand this----. I almost never see this, but let me just----. I say, one way to understand this, about why we all did what we did when we did, even when a lot of folks thought we were crazy, or at least thought we couldn't prevail, is I don't think I can even----. I was----. I was surprised and heartbroken that the Chinese Embassy was hit because of the mapping accidents. I mean, that did surprise me. I had no earthly idea that our system would permit that kind of mistake. That was the biggest surprise of all.
But let me just say one other thing. I think that when you look at this conflict and you seek to understand, "Well, why did President Clinton do this, why did Tony Blair do this, why did Jacques Chirac go along, why did the Germans get in there with both feet so early, given their history and all this?" I think you have to see this through the lens of Bosnia.
And keep in mind, in Bosnia we had the U.N. in there first in a peacekeeping mission, and we tried for four years, you know, 50 different diplomatic solutions, all those different maps, all that different argument, and in the end of it all, from 1991 to 1995, we still had Srebrenica.
We still had -- you know, and when it was all said and done, we had a quarter of a million people dead and two and a half million refugees. And I think what you have to understand is that we saw this through the lens of Bosnia. And we said we are not going to wait a day, not a day if we can stop it. Once he had----. Once we knew there was a military plan, they had all those soldiers deployed, they had all those tanks deployed, you know, we knew what was coming and we decided to move.
So, yes, there were surprises along the way. I'm terribly sorry about the embassy. We made our report -- I've gotten a report and the Chinese got -- I made sure the Chinese got essentially the same report I did. We didn't put any varnish on it. And I'm sorry about it.
But our pilots, on the whole, did a superb job and we did the right thing. And I hope that the American people, as time goes on, will feel more and more strongly that we did. . . .
Q. Mr. President, you have been very much involved in the last few weeks in an attempt to create a Balkan reconstruction program. Many people, including yourself, have referred to the Marshall Plan after World War II as kind of a comparison to what you want to accomplish. And yet, you and Administration officials have insisted that Serbia cannot be involved in this until Milosevic is out.
Given the nature of the Balkan economy, which is a very integrated area with the electricity networks, the transportation networks, the Danube River, which is a unifying force which unites the entire region, isn't it a folly to try and conduct a program of this nature by excluding Serbia, and really economically impossible; without Serbia as a part of the picture, you cannot really get the whole economy moving?
And secondly, is there not a danger -- I realize that you have said that the reason for excluding Serbia was to try and get the Serb people to reject Milosevic, but isn't there a danger that they may indeed coalesce around Milosevic, feeling themselves as victims, and support him in spite of his own personal character simply because of the bitterness toward the West after the bombing and the sanctions and now what they feel is disappointment over the reconstruction?
A. Well, to answer your question, first of all, I don't think it's folly or impossible to think we can have a Balkans reconstruction plan, a Southeastern Europe reconstruction plan without Serbia; but it would be terribly unfortunate and more difficult.
What will happen is that new networks will be formed and the relative importance of Serbia will be diminished if they're not a part of it. But it will be much more difficult and it will be very unfortunate.
Now, having said that, what the Serbian people decide to do, of course, is their own affair. But, you know, they're going to have to come to grips with what Mr. Milosevic ordered in Kosovo. They're just going to have to come to grips with it. And, you know, they're going to have to get out of denial; they're going to have to come to grips with it. And then they're going to have to decide whether they support his leadership or not; whether they think it's O.K. that all those tens of thousands of people were killed and all those hundreds of thousands of people were run out of their homes and all those little girls were raped and all those little boys were murdered. They're going to have to decide if they think that is O.K., and if they think it's O.K., they can make that decision, but I wouldn't give them one red cent for reconstruction if they think it's O.K. because I don't think it's O.K. and I don't think that's the world we're trying to build for our children.
So I think it's simple, and I'm -- you know -- look, I met with Mr. Milosevic in Paris, I shook hands with him, I had lunch across from the table from him. It was a delightful and interesting lunch. And I thought, well, you know, maybe he had some distance between the extreme activities of the Serbs in Bosnia. And then he went right out and did it all over again, and I mean with people directly under his control. And I do not believe we should give them any money for reconstruction if they believe that is the person who should lead them into the new century. I do not, and I will not support it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CHILD LABOR (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FOSTER CARE (75%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); CHILDREN (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); REFUGEES (70%); ARMED FORCES (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (65%); MEDICAID (65%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (61%); SOCIAL SECURITY (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



541 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Nasdaq and S.& P. Decline; Dow Jones Rises 17 Points
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index dropped 1.34 points, to 2,552.65, as trading was slow and investors awaited the meeting Tuesday and Wednesday of the Federal Open Market Committee. Investors expect the Federal Reserve's policy-making panel to raise short-term interest rates a quarter percentage point to head off inflation.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.47 point, to 1,315.31, while the Dow Jones industrial average rose 17.73 points, to 10,552.56. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond declined to 6.15 percent from 6.16 percent on Thursday. Page C3.
 
Economy Growing at a 4.3% Rate
Torrid consumer spending helped the gross domestic product -- the nation's output of goods and services -- grow at a brisk annual rate of 4.3 percent in the first quarter of the year, the Commerce Department reported. C4.
 
Priests Say They Were Duped
In Rome, two priests, the Rev. Peter Jacobs, 73, an American, and Monsignor Emilio Colagiovanni, 79, a scholarly Italian, provided a clerical cloak of respectability for a money manager who authorities suspect embezzled more than $300 million from American insurance companies. Both men insist they were duped by Martin R. Frankel, who disappeared last month and is wanted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. A1.
 
Campbell Earnings to Fall Short
Campbell Soup said that earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter would fall 8 cents to 10 cents a share below analysts' forecasts of 38 cents a share and that it planned to reorganize its soup operations. Mark M. Leckie, the president of the company's domestic soup division, will leave the company. He will be succeeded at the new North American division by F. Martin Thrasher, now the company's president of European and Canadian operations. C4.
 
Nissan's Western-Style Meeting
In Japan, where annual shareholders' meetings, are traditionally closed affairs, Nissan Motor moved to Western-style openness, allowing news coverage. But the reward for the troubled company's president, Yoshikazu Hanawa, left, was a scolding gadfly shareholder who identified himself only as Mr. Tamura and demanded his resignation, saying, "You've made mistake after mistake." Next Tuesday, 1,374 companies, or 88 percent of Japan's listed companies, are to hold their meetings. C2.
 
Latin-European Trade Meeting Set
Seeking to increase trade and gain a counterweight to American global economic dominance, leaders of Latin America and Europe, the world's second- and third-largest trading blocs, are to meet in Rio de Janeiro this weekend and early next week. Their summit meeting, their first, has already proved contentious on several basic issues, notably French insistence that farm products be excluded from any free-trade pact. C2.
 
In Indonesia, a Step Toward Health
In Indonesia, the agreement this week between PT Astra International and its creditors on how the big company, which assembles Toyota utility vehicles and Honda motorcycles, will pay back more than $1 billion in debt is being heralded as evidence that the nation is on the mend. But Indonesia is by no means well. C2.
 
BBC's New Head Stirs Controversy
The British Broadcasting Corporation stirred passionate debate by appointing as its new head Greg Dyke, a millionaire Labor Party supporter associated with "Baywatch" and a puppet called Roland Rat. He has been head of Pearson Television, but the Conservative opposition focused on his Labor ties. A3.
 
Covance and Parexel Halt Merger
Covance and Parexel International, two drug-development companies, called off their planned merger, originally valued at more than $600 million. C3.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,552.56 up 17.73
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.15% down 0.01
The Dollar -- 121.43 yen down 0.35
 
Graph plots the Nasdaq Composite since January 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (50%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (52%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); INSURANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PETER JACOBS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



542 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: F.B.I. IS PROPOSING A SPECIAL DIVISION FOR HUNTING SPIES

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25

 BODY:
The F.B.I. is proposing to create a division devoted solely to rooting out spies, part of a Government-wide review of counterintelligence following suspicions that China tried for two decades to steal nuclear secrets, Government officials said today.
After the cold war and the breakup of the Soviet Union, American intelligence agencies increasingly focused on fighting terrorism, believing that espionage would become less of a threat. As a result, counterintelligence efforts dwindled, according to experts inside and outside the Government. 
 At the Federal Bureau of Investigation, for instance, the national security division added counterterrorism operations to its traditional emphasis on fighting espionage. Officials said there was a sense that as the battle against terrorism became more important, counterespionage operations were given less priority.
Now officials are proposing new ways the Government should organize to make sure that there is an emphasis on both threats, the officials said. Some aspects of the review were first reported by The Los Angeles Times.
The F.B.I. Director, Louis J. Freeh, has proposed splitting the national security division into two divisions, one to fight terrorism and the other to root out spies, both led by assistant directors, the officials said. Attorney General Janet Reno has approved the request and forwarded it to the White House, they added.
The Government-wide review also includes the Pentagon and the Central Intelligence Agency and is expected to lead to an overhaul of all counterintelligence efforts.
The review is a tacit acknowledgment that the Government has failed to keep pace with new forms of espionage, in a world of scientist-to-scientist contacts and academic conferences. The United States faces not only efforts to steal military secrets, but also economic espionage aimed at stealing technology or getting information that would help a country's goods compete against American products. The espionage is conducted not only by foreign governments and military intelligence services, but also by corporations.
The review represents the first time the three agencies have collaborated on a systematic assessment of espionage threats.
A new division of the F.B.I. devoted solely to counterintelligence would add agents and analysts to the efforts against foreign espionage, increasing the agency's staff.
The bureau is likely to revise its traditional system of assessing threats and allocating budgets on a country-by-country basis, known as the National Security Threat List, officials said. The bureau will broaden its assessments of risk, including threats from corporations and even international criminal organizations.
At the Pentagon, the review will focus on threats to the military and the risk that contractors, academics and research laboratories that work with the agency could provide important information to other nations, said Kenneth Bacon, the Defense Department spokesman. "The review will analyze the threat and determine whether our response is adequate," he said.
At the C.I.A., officials said that only preliminary discussions had been held to review counterintelligence operations. George J. Tenet, the Director of Central Intelligence, and Mr. Freeh testified on Wednesday before the Senate Intelligence Committee about the review.
The Government is changing procedures at the country's nuclear weapons laboratories. Those changes, including special squads of F.B.I. agents at the labs, are being handled by officials at the bureau and the Energy Department. The reorganization plan is a reaction to criticism of the Government's handling of suspected Chinese espionage at the labs.
Some lawmakers said the F.B.I. and the Justice Department had failed to investigate aggressively possible instance of Chinese espionage including cases like that of Wen Ho Lee, the nuclear scientist suspected of helping the Chinese acquire advance thermonuclear technology. Mr. Lee has denied that he ever spied for China, and Chinese officials have denied stealing nuclear secrets.
F.B.I. officials said the Lee case showed how hard it was to insure the safety of American security secrets in an environment of informal contacts between scientists working in exotic disciplines that are often hard to ferret out and evaluate.
Some law enforcement officials have said the increasing focus on counterterrorism cases, including both domestic and international investigations, had drawn attention of senior managers away from the ongoing and often unglamorous counterintelligence work of keeping track of foreign visitors and Americans traveling abroad.
Reorganizing counterintelligence operations represents the latest step in the long and often troubled relationship between the agencies primarily responsible for catching spies, the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. Throughout most of the cold war era, the two agencies were often at odds over counterintelligence policy, jealously guarding their turf.
F.B.I. agents and C.I.A. officers recruited their own informants and often refused to share leads and information about potential cases. At times, the counterspy operations seemed to spin out of control. James J. Angleton, the counterintelligence chief at the C.I.A., conducted zealous hunts for suspected moles at the agency, an effort that threatened to bring the agency to standstill and ruined the careers of loyal agency employees.
Fledging cooperative efforts in the 1980's culminated in the successful prosecution of the Aldrich H. Ames, the C.I.A. officer who in 1993 pleaded guilty to spying for Moscow after an investigation concluded that he had turned over to the Russians the identities of more than a dozen East bloc officials who were secretly spying for the United States.
After the Ames case, a shattering experience for the C.I.A., new rules were adopted to require the agency to report possible security breaches to the F.B.I. The two agencies have exchanged personnel to work on counterintelligence matters, and Mr. Freeh and Mr. Tenet have sought to forge a better relationship.
Specific events have helped, like the F.B.I.'s arrest in Pakistan in 1997 of Mir Amal Kansi, who was returned to the United States and convicted of killing two people in 1993 outside C.I.A. headquarters.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Energy Official Resigns
 By The New York Times
WASHINGTON, June 25 -- The first senior Government official to lose his post in the furor over Chinese spying charges resigned today. Victor Reis, an Assistant Secretary of Energy who oversaw the nuclear weapons laboratories, submitted his resignation to Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, an Energy Department spokeswoman said.
Mr. Reis was one of many Energy Department and lab officials to come under fire for counterintelligence problems at the Government's weapons labs. He had also angered Mr. Richardson by aligning himself with Republican senators who have proposed legislation that would create an agency in the department to handle the nuclear weapons programs.
The department's inspector general is conducting an investigation into the handling of the spy case. It is expected to be completed in about a month, when Mr. Richardson is expected to announce disciplinary action against other officials, possibly including dismissals. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; TERRORISM ESPIONAGE (94%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); APPROVALS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DAVID; FREEH, LOUIS J (DIR); RENO, JANET (ATTY GEN) DAVID S JOHNSON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



543 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2023 words

HEADLINE: How 2 Priests Got Mixed Up In a Huge Insurance Scandal

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: ROME, June 25

 BODY:
As priests, they make an unlikely pair. One is an affable, worldly American bon vivant who zooms around Rome on a raffish blue motorbike and defied his New York archbishop in the 1980's by running a trendy Manhattan restaurant to raise money for the poor. The other is an owlish Italian canon law scholar who serves as an emeritus judge on the Roman Rota, the court of appeals of the Holy See.
Together, the Rev. Peter Jacobs, 73, and Msgr. Emilio Colagiovanni, 79, provided a clerical cloak of respectability for a Greenwich, Conn., money manager who authorities suspect embezzled more than $300 million from insurers across the United States. Both men insist they were badly duped by Martin R. Frankel, who disappeared last month and is wanted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
 The priests say they knew Mr. Frankel as David Rosse, a middle-aged tycoon who claimed descent from the Jewish King David and said he was eager to give at least $50 million to the church.
They supported the St. Francis of Assisi Foundation, a charity Mr. Frankel set up and then tried to use to buy several American insurance companies . He named Father Jacobs president of that foundation. Monsignor Colagiovanni, who had his own foundation, said he went a step further, giving Mr. Frankel's charity power to move funds in and out of the Vatican bank account of Monsignor Colagiovanni's foundation.
With Federal investigators in the United States scouring the records of Mr. Frankel's intricate financial transactions, those actions have left both priests exposed and vulnerable. And it has turned both into virtual pariahs inside the Vatican.
The Vatican spokesman, Joaquin Navarro-Valls, said there was no link whatsoever between the Vatican and Mr. Frankel. He also denied any connection between Monsignor Colagiovanni's Monitor Ecclesiasticus Foundation and the Vatican.
Yet before the scandal erupted, senior Vatican officials were also intrigued by Mr. Frankel's professed desire to shower riches on church charities. At least two senior Vatican officials met with Mr. Frankel's American lawyer, Thomas A. Bolan, and tried to help his client set up a charitable foundation that would be part of the Vatican.
Mr. Bolan, a former law partner of the late Roy Cohn, met in Rome to discuss the foundation with Bishop Francesco Salerio Salerno, and Monsignor Gianfranco Piovano, top Vatican officials, according to his lawyer, Maurice R. Nessen, and the two priests. Reading from his notes of what Mr. Bolan recollects, Mr. Nessen said tonight that the meetings in Rome centered on how an outside philanthropist could channel money through the Vatican to support religious causes.
Church officials have been highly sensitive to any hint of a banking scandal since the 1980's, when the Vatican bank was badly tainted by its ties to the Banco Ambrosiana, which collapsed after a huge financial scandal.
Bishop Salerno is now secretary of the Apostolic Signatura, the supreme court of the church. At the time of the meeting with Mr. Bolan, he was secretary of the Prefecture for the Economic Affairs of the Holy See. In an interview today, Bishop Salerno said he had denied ever discussing the foundation with Mr. Bolan, though he said he did so with Monsignor Colagiovanni. "I could not refuse Monsignor Colagiovanni, he is a judge on the Roman Rota," he explained.
 
Hypothetical Approval For an American Role
Monsignor Salerno said he told other Vatican officials that "hypothetically" nothing would legally prevent an American financier from opening a charitable foundation in the Vatican. "The Vatican is a sovereign state, anything can be done, but the question is will it be authorized," Bishop Salerno said.
Mr. Nessen, Mr. Bolan's lawyer, said that his client had a later meeting with Monsignor Piovano, an assistant Vatican Secretary of State, who disagreed with Bishop Salerno, pointing out that Mr. Frankel could not be allowed to control a Vatican foundation's assets, especially since Mr. Frankel also wished to invest in insurance companies in America.
Eventually, however, the two sides worked out a compromise: the Monitor Ecclesiasticus Foundation, Monsignor Colagiovanni's cultural and charitable organization, could act as "founder" -- in legal terms as "settlor" -- of a new, independent foundation controlled by Mr. Frankel. According to Mr. Nessen, the new foundation would be named after St. Francis of Assisi and could claim links to the Vatican, as Mr. Frankel desired. Mr. Nessen said that Monsignor Salerno was aware of and approved this arrangement in advance. Asked in writing to respond, Bishop Salerno did not reply.
But after Mr. Frankel's suspected embezzlement schemes came to light, the Vatican sought to distance itself from the American -- and his associates in the church.
Mr. Navarro-Valls described Monsignor Colagiovanni, who as president of Monitor Ecclesiasticus edits a Vatican-approved canonical law quarterly and also runs its charitable arm, as a "pensioner." Mr. Navarro-Valls said he knew nothing about Father Jacobs, but volunteered that he was an "ex-Jew."
Bishop Salerno also pointed out Father Jacobs's Jewish roots after the scandal surfaced. Surprisingly, neither he nor Mr. Navarro-Valls nor others mentioned the fact that Father Jacobs was formally rebuked by the Roman Catholic Church in 1983, after he ignored an archbishop's order to cease operating his New York restaurant, The Palantine. Father Jacobs's right to perform priestly duties was suspended at that time because he violated church rules about business transactions.
Father Jacobs, who continues to serve mass and perform weddings, said in an interview that he believed his suspension was reversed in 1987 after he gave up the business. According to his archdiocese in Washington, however, the suspension was reversed, but not the ban on giving sacraments.
"Priestly faculties are like a medical license, and Father Jacobs's were never restored," Monsignor William E. Lori, Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of Washington, explained on Thursday. "The sacraments he performed since 1983 are not valid."
Father Jacobs was born in New Hampshire, the son of a Jewish father and an Catholic mother. Father Jacobs was baptized as a Catholic, but he only began practicing his faith while serving in the Navy during World War II. He was ordained in 1955.
In his long, colorful and highly unorthodox career as a priest, he has made interfaith marriages a specialty. It was, in fact, an interfaith society wedding that brought Father Jacobs and Monsignor Colagiovanni together in 1994.
They first met, Monsignor Colagiovanni recalled in an interview, at the Vatican bank, known as the Istituto per le Opere di Religione. Monsignor Colagiovanni's foundation has an account there. Father Jacobs said that he was there visiting old friends who worked in the bank.
"He is a very social fellow," Monsignor Colagiovanni said of Father Jacobs. Soon after that meeting, Father Jacobs sought out Monsignor Colagiovanni's expertise in arranging a Catholic church wedding for a divorced Jewish man and a Catholic woman. Monsignor Colagiovanni said he had no idea at the time he was helping one of America's wealthiest men, Edgar Bronfman Jr. president of the Seagram Company, marry Clarissa Alcock, the daughter of an oil executive, in Caracas, Venezuela. Father Jacobs said he officiated at the service, alongside a local priest and a rabbi, over the objections of the local cardinal. An associate of the Bronfman family said that this was untrue, and that the local priest had officiated, with Father Jacobs serving as a "greeter."
 
Famous Connections Around the World
Father Jacobs, who has worked in the slums of New York and Washington, also hobnobs with European aristocrats and counts the late Princess Grace of Monaco, Walter Cronkite and Arrigo Cipriani and a restaurateur among his many friends. Another was Mr. Bolan.
In August of 1998, Monsignor Colagiovanni said he got another call from Father Jacobs when he was on holiday in Cleveland. "He told me there was a Jewish millionaire who wanted to do good things for the church and the poor," Monsignor Colagiovanni recalled.
He flew at Mr. Frankel's expense to New York, where he and Father Jacobs and Mr. Bolan had dinner at Cipriani's. Father Jacobs said he had known Mr. Bolan for 30 years and had helped him through a variety of family crises.
Soon after the dinner, all three men drove to Greenwich, Conn., to meet the aspiring benefactor. Both priests said they were surprised and impressed by Mr. Frankel's library, which was crammed with books on Catholicism, ranging from Papal encyclicals to hundreds of tomes devoted to St. Francis of Assisi. "He had actually read the encyclicals," Father Jacobs said. "Even I haven't read them all."
But the priest also noticed Mr. Frankel's weird side, particularly his obsessive fear of germs. "He reminded me of the Jack Nicholson character in 'As Good as it Gets,' who kept washing his hands over and over," Father Jacobs said.
Msg. Colagiovanni, like Father Jacobs, received from Mr. Frankel a 13-page autobiographical sketch that laid out his financial credentials and his piety, including his self-professed hero worship for Albert Schweitzer and St. Francis of Assisi. It said he was smitten by Franco Zefferelli's "Brother Sun, Sister Moon," which he said he saw "every day for five weekdays."
Msg. Colagiovanni said he was convinced of Mr. Frankel's good intentions, but he said that when Mr. Frankel explained his desire to give $50 million dollars to Catholic charities by setting up his own foundation at the Vatican, he told him that was impossible. "I explained no lay person could bank there," Mr. Colagiovanni said.
He said he encouraged Mr. Frankel to start his own private foundation. But Mr. Frankel was apparently so keen to bank at the Vatican that he dispatched his lawyer, Mr. Bolan, to Rome by Concorde to meet with Vatican officials and explain his offer.
The two sides eventually settled on the compromise and founded the St. Francis Foundation. Mr. Jacobs said that he learned that he was appointed a trustee and president of the St. Francis foundation after seeing his name on a document.
Mr. Frankel also ardently pursued celebrities to add legitimacy to his organization. Lee A. Iacocca, the former Chrysler chairman, rejected Mr. Frankel's overtures to serve on the St. Francis foundation board. But Mr. Frankel did not readily accept no for an answer: He paid for Mr. Iacocca to fly on a leased Gulfstream IV executive jet from Los Angeles to Milan, Italy, where Mr. Iacocca attended to some business, a spokesperson for Mr. Iacocca said.
And Mr. Frankel may have pressured Mr. Jacobs to use his own connections. Walter Cronkite said that he had received and rejected a request from Father Jacobs to serve on the advisory board. Mr. Cronkite heard nothing more about the matter until early May.
"Father Pete called and left a very cryptic message" at my office, Mr. Cronkite said. "He said 'the man who has given a billion dollars has apparently absconded with the money, the whole thing is a mess. I'm sorry I listed you as a member of the board of advisors. I hope it doesn't cause you any problems.' "
Msg. Colagiovanni said that he told Mr. Frankel he did not want to be involved with collecting funds or investing money. He signed over to Father Jacobs, president of the St. Francis Foundation, the right to use the bank account of the Monitor Ecclesiaticus Foundation, which is in the Vatican bank. But Mr. Frankel apparently never tapped that source: both priests said that Mr. Frankel never sent any money to either foundation.
Mr. Frankel instead used Mr. Colagiovanni's connections in a different way. Msgr. C said that the American financier persuaded him to sign a November 1998 affadavit that stated that funds contributed to the St. Francis Foundation came from "funds of the Holy See." Mr. Frankel's lawyers used that document to support their claims that Mr. Frankel's charity and business dealings had the approval of the Vatican.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HOLY SEE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ST FRANCIS OF ASSISI FOUNDATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ST FRANCIS OF ASSISI FOUNDATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOLY SEE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; EMBEZZLEMENT RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INSURANCE (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCANDALS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); LAWYERS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); EMBEZZLEMENT (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INSURANCE FRAUD (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; FRANKEL, MARTIN R; JACOBS, PETER (REV); COLAGIOVANNI, EMILIO (MSGR) PETER JACOBS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



544 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
G.O.P. Looks for Ways To Seize on the Economy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25

 BODY:
The nation's long run of prosperity has left the Republican Presidential candidates with a crucial strategic choice: embrace the strong economy as their own, look for the dark side or change the subject.
But even as they grudgingly acknowledge that a strong economy helps the incumbent party in national elections -- and grapple with why their signature economic issue, tax cuts, does not seem to be lighting any fires among the increasingly well-off middle class -- the Republicans are unwilling to cede the issue to Vice President Al Gore. 
 The economy could still turn down in the 16 months before Election Day, and the Federal Reserve's likely decision to raise interest rates next week has given a case of jitters to the most visible indicator of confidence, the stock market. Moreover, polling suggests that voters in the early going are not giving Mr. Gore credit for the economy or much of anything.
Still, no one knows the political power of the economy better than the Republican front-runner, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas. He watched a strong economy help his father, then Vice President, win the Presidency in 1988, and watched again as a weakened economy contributed to his father's loss to Bill Clinton four years later.
As he begins his campaign, Governor Bush is openly celebrating the nation's prosperity. But he is arguing that the American people, rather than Mr. Clinton or Mr. Gore, deserve the credit. And he is asserting that it is his policies that can best nurture the expansion and harness it to Republican ends -- while positioning himself to attack should the economy falter before the election.
Elizabeth Dole's campaign is betting that good times mean character and personality will eclipse the economy as an issue. Steve Forbes says a solid economic foundation provides the opportunity to address fundamental issues like taxes. Patrick J. Buchanan continues to pound away at the theme of economic nationalism, saying the global economy is leaving many Americans behind.
Struggling like his fellow Republicans to move from defense to offense on the issue, Lamar Alexander is trying a variant on the question that Ronald Reagan used to skewer Jimmy Carter in the 1980 election: Are you better off than you were four years ago?
"Today the question is whether we will have a better country four years from now," Mr. Alexander said in an interview, all but conceding that the original formulation of the question would blow up in the face of Republicans. "The answer is that we won't if our standards have sunk to a new low, if we have substandard schools, if taxes are higher and regulations grow."
Mr. Gore, of course, is aggressively laying out the case for why he, along with the President, should be rewarded for the current combination of steady growth, low unemployment, dormant inflation and a stock market that will not quit. Democratic strategists say the economy -- if it remains on track -- is one issue on which Mr. Gore should be all but invulnerable.
History gives the Republicans little hope.
In the 13 Presidential elections since World War II, there have been four cases where an incumbent, or a Vice President running to succeed him, suffered through recessions that extended to within less than two years of Election Day. In every case -- Richard M. Nixon in 1960, Gerald R. Ford in 1976, Mr. Carter in 1980 and George Bush in 1992 -- the incumbent or Vice President was beaten by the challenger.
(Mr. Nixon and Mr. Reagan cut the rule awfully close in two re-election campaigns. Mr. Nixon presided over an 11-month recession that ended in November 1970, but went on to an easy victory in 1972. Mr. Reagan presided over a 16-month recession that ended in November 1982, and went on to a landslide in 1984.)
By the same token, incumbent Presidents, or Vice Presidents running to succeed them, have won six of the seven elections since World War II in which they have been able to claim stewardship of a long-growing economy. The exception was Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey in 1968, when the Vietnam War overshadowed all other issues.
Cast in the role of challenger, Governor Bush is clearly looking for a way to turn the situation to his advantage.
His slogan "Prosperity With a Purpose" hints at a strategy of acknowledging the obvious and looking to use it both to advance traditional Republican goals like lower taxes and as a basis for his advocacy of "compassionate conservatism."
"The purpose of prosperity is to leave no one out, to leave no one behind," Mr. Bush said in announcing his candidacy. Mr. Bush said that prosperity "is not a given," that it was not invented by Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore "any more than they created the Internet" and that policies he supports like tax cuts, restrictions on lawsuits, free trade and a partial privatizing of Social Security would help keep the good times rolling.
"Governor Bush has developed an economic program that will be good for the country whether the current cyclical upswing continues or the economy falters," said Michael J. Boskin, a Stanford University economist who was President Bush's chief economist and is now advising Governor Bush.
"If the economy softens notably, which is possible but not the base case, that will hurt Gore," Mr. Boskin said. In any event, "most likely the economy and economic policy and what Presidents do about it will be a plus for Bush, because his view is closer to where most voters are."
Mrs. Dole's advisers say that to the degree that voters feel economically secure, their interests will turn to other issues.
"Gore's got big problems," said Ari Fleischer, Mrs. Dole's communications director. "And the irony is that the strong economy is one of them, because it's making people decide who to vote for on the basis of character and personality."
Mr. Forbes said the real credit for the strong economy should go to President Reagan, for cutting taxes and checking the growth in the size and influence of the Federal Government. And with the basics taken care of for most people, he said, now is the time for consideration of far-reaching changes like simplifying the tax code and giving parents more choice in where their children go to school.
"People can say, 'O.K., I have a job or the prospect of a job,' " Mr. Forbes said in an interview. "But what is the quality of life? Why can't two incomes do the job that one income used to do? Why can't we spend more time with the kids? Why are our schools lagging those of other countries?"
On economic policy, most of the Republican candidates find it easier to draw distinctions between themselves and Mr. Gore than among one another. The exception is Mr. Buchanan, whose message of gloom could become more appealing to the front-runner, Mr. Bush, should the economy turn down.
"Factories leaving, communities uprooted, high-paying jobs for the middle class leaving the country," Mr. Buchanan said. "Economic insecurity has become a pre-existing condition of the American middle class." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TAX LAW (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); DOLE, ELIZABETH; STEVENSON, RICHARD W AL GORE (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



545 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Prods Congress Over a Four-Bill Package

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25

 BODY:
President Clinton challenged Republicans today to work with him on domestic legislation so "this summer should be a season of progress," but made clear that he was just as willing to blame them for failure as to share credit for success.
In a speech at Georgetown University and in a news conference later, Mr. Clinton identified four bills as available for quick action because of broad bipartisan agreement. But one, campaign finance legislation, is strongly opposed by Republican leaders, and a second, the so-called patient's bill of rights, has Democrats seeking very broad application and a right to sue health maintenance organizations, two features opposed by most Republicans. 
 The two other bills -- one that would allow disabled people returning to work to retain Federal heath benefits, the other a raise in the minimum wage -- are measures that Republican leaders seem ready to accept.
Jim Nicholson, the Republican national chairman, attacked the President's comments, saying he "passed up an opportunity to work for real bipartisan solutions to America's problems."
"He chose instead," Mr. Nicholson said, "to create issues for the election campaign of Al Gore and other Democrats."
House Republicans, eager to leave town for the weekend before the late-afternoon news conference, held a rally this morning to urge the President to back a major tax cut, a national missile defense and legislation to allow states to spend Federal education dollars more freely. Speaker J. Dennis Hastert attacked inheritance taxes and the income-tax feature known as the "marriage penalty," which subjects some married working couples to higher taxes than they together would pay if they were single.
Mr. Clinton was asked about only one of the Republican proposals, use of money from the Federal budget surplus to cut taxes. "I'm not against tax cuts," he said, but Medicare and Social Security must be dealt with first. And he opposed any tax cuts whose result would be "to cut education or cut health care or cut our investments in the environment."
The President spoke at Georgetown about his desire to proceed in a spirit of "honorable compromise" on issues where the parties' approaches differ, as on Medicare and Social Security. But at the news conference he assailed House Republicans for their action on gun control legislation, saying they had voted to weaken "current law by letting criminals store their guns at pawnshops." A provision that would have eliminated background checks when guns are retrieved from pawnshops was included in the gun bill that the House defeated last Friday.
Mr. Clinton called on Republican leaders to appoint conferees who would adopt the gun controls passed by the Senate. Those provisions included a mandate that licensed dealers sell child safety devices with every handgun, a ban on the import of large ammunition clips and a requirement that all purchasers at gun shows be subjected to background checks that vendors would have up to three business days to complete.
"It's really not a partisan issue," he said, "anywhere but Washington, D.C."
His Georgetown speech also dwelled on the subject of partisanship.
"I think that those of us who work here now," he told the assembled students, "will be judged primarily by whether we choose to seize this opportunity to insure your future -- not just the short term, but the long term -- or will it be squandered with petty arguments and animosities and special-interest politics? I regret to say that the atmosphere in Washington has become increasingly poisoned by bitter partisanship. I don't understand exactly why, since we keep doing better and better and better in America. It may be that some people believe they have the luxury of engaging in shortsighted partisanship because the country is doing so well."
Some in Washington, he said, "really believe that because the Presidential election season has already started, the battle for Congress has already started -- even though it's a year and however many months away -- that the best politics is just to run out the clock and wait for the next election and hope that the country is doing so well and we enjoy the lazy days of summer so much nobody will notice."
At the news conference he was reminded by a questioner that some Congressional Democrats also favored inaction, thinking their best chance of victories next year lay in accusing the Republicans of running a do-nothing Congress.
Mr. Clinton conceded in his reply how widespread that feeling was, but said: "Not all Democrats believe that. You see a number in the House, and I think probably a majority in the Senate, do not agree with that."
Reporters repeatedly asked him about polls, which they said showed a lack of support for him, and he replied that the polls he had seen showed support for his policies.
Asked whether he understood why he generated such antagonism from his opponents, he said he was not sure. But he added that "the right wing -- you know, I've been accused of murder and all kinds of things -- and it seems, it's almost that the better the country got, the madder some of them got."
Then, citing the bitter attacks encountered by Franklin D. Roosevelt, he said that "generally, in our country's history, the people who are progressive, people who try to change things, people who keep pushing the envelope, have generally elicited very strong, sometimes personally hostile, negative reaction."
The President was asked whether he thought his "personal behavior" had made him a liability to Democrats like Mr. Gore and the First Lady, a likely Senate candidate.
"All elections are about the future," he replied, "and all candidates are judged on their own merits. And I believe that is the case here. But I think that the American people know that the country is in good shape, and that not only our economic policies, our crime policies and our welfare policies, but our family policies are good for their efforts to raise their children. And the best thing that I can do, it seems to me, is to do the right thing by my country, to just keep working at being a good President, and they'll do fine."
Mr. Clinton defended his intention to propose a prescription drug benefit for Medicare. "I don't really think there's any alternative here," he said. "You've got 15 million Americans, seniors out there, without any kind of coverage for their medicine. You've got millions and millions of others with inadequate or highly expensive coverage."
To help finance their Medicare plan, White House officials had considered charging extra premiums that would have increased with the incomes of beneficiaries. But Administration officials said today that Mr. Clinton had decided not to include that idea in his proposal.
The idea has encountered fierce resistance from members of both parties in the House of Representatives. Democrats told the White House that the prospect of higher premiums could alarm elderly voters and undermine support for Medicare. Republicans denounced the extra premiums as a tax increase.
In the past, Mr. Clinton has proposed that Medicare beneficiaries with incomes over $90,000 a year pay higher premiums, and a White House official said Mr. Clinton would still be open to the idea in negotiations with Congress. But, the official said, Mr. Clinton decided to omit the idea from his own Medicare proposal because "he was concerned that it would distract attention from the rest of the package."
The only element of his four-bill package on which reporters pressed him was the campaign finance measure. Mr. Clinton said his strategy on that bill, which would ban soft-money contributions and curb "issue" advertisements, was to "keep it on the front burner so that the discomfort level rises high enough that an actual vote is allowed."
He identified Senate Republican leaders as the obstacle, saying that "they don't want their people who will vote against it to have a recorded vote on it, and they don't want to run the risk that they've got enough of their folks that would vote with all of ours" and pass the bill.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton, leaving the Old Executive Office Building after his news conference, spoke with his national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger. The President's press secretary, Joe Lockhart, trailed him. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (58%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (58%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HANDICAPPED; MEDICARE; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HEALTH INSURANCE TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX RELIEF (86%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); ESTATE TAX (71%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); MARRIAGE (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); CHILDREN (64%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NICHOLSON, JIM BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



546 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Easing Strain, North Korea Releases Tourist to Seoul

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 25

 BODY:
North Korea today released a South Korean tourist detained earlier this week on charges of trying to lure North Koreans to defect. The move is expected to ease Korean tensions, which have been rising since a clash of warships in the Yellow Sea last week.
The tourist, a 35-year-old woman who was taken into custody on Sunday during a tour of the Mount Kumgang resort in North Korea, was handed over to officials of the Hyundai Group, the South Korean conglomerate that operates the tour, South Korean officials said. 
 "She appears to be in good health," a Hyundai spokesman, Lee Young Kyu, said. "Our doctors in the North will give her a brief medical checkup, and then she will leave for the South on a Hyundai tugboat."
North Korean security authorities said the woman, Min Young Mi, had tried to persuade a North Korean tour guide to defect to the South. The North's official Korean Central News Agency said the Government had decided to release her because she admitted that she had "preached defection" to the guide. The news agency said that the woman "begged for lenient forgiveness for her criminal act." It was impossible to verify the account.
The detention once again raised tensions between the Koreas, which have never signed a peace treaty formally ending the 1950-53 Korean War. Last week, the two countries' skirmish in the Yellow Sea resulted in the sinking of a North Korean boat and the deaths of at least 20 North Korean sailors.
Officials of North and South Korea held long-awaited talks in Beijing on Tuesday to discuss reuniting families divided by the war, but those discussions ended with both sides trading accusations over which was responsible for the marine conflict. The talks resumed on Saturday, Agence France-Presse reported.
 It remains unclear exactly what North Korea hoped to accomplish in detaining the South Korean tourist. South Korean officials, who spoke by telephone from Seoul, interpreted the detention as a response to the sinking of the North Korean vessel.
The detention severely tested President Kim Dae Jung's policy of engaging North Korea despite its confrontational nature. At home and abroad, particularly in the United States Congress, critics say Mr. Kim's policy of social and economic engagement is largely ineffective because North Korea remains hostile.
He had threatened to halt the tourism program, which is the countries' largest joint commercial venture, and a major source of income for North Korea, if the woman was not released. Mr. Kim has faced growing criticism
A spokesman for Mr. Kim, Park June Young, applauded the release, calling it "a result of our Government's firm position to guarantee the safety of our tourists in the North."
"We urge the North to take foolproof measures in the future to guarantee the safety of South Korean tourists," he said.


 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
American Detained
 WASHINGTON, June 25 (Reuters) -- An American has been arrested in North Korea and charged with "alleged violations of law," the State Department said today.
The Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, said the charges against the American, whom he refused to identify, "have something to do with their efforts to build a hospital and a garment manufacturing business in North Korea, is my understanding." The United States does not have an embassy in North Korea, and Mr. Rubin said that the North Koreans had confirmed to Swedish officials, who represent American interests there, that an American was arrested on June 17.
The United States was urging North Korea to provide Swedish diplomats with quick and early consular access to the detained American.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 011760 (KSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (68%); 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI GROUP (71%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (68%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); KOREAN WAR (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); MOUNTAINS (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN KIM DAE JUNG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



547 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: City Sells Harlem Building Sought for Culinary School

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
Community organizers in East Harlem say the city has shattered their dream of establishing a local cooking school that would prepare low-income people for careers in the flourishing food-service industry.
For two years, they say, they worked closely with officials from the city's Economic Development Corporation and other city employees to develop plans to house the Harlem Culinary Institute in the Corn Exchange Building, a city-owned 19th century landmark at 125th Street and Park Avenue that has been vacant for two decades. 
 But the city sold the red-brick building at an auction last month to a group of investors that included Elie Hirschfeld, the son of Abe Hirschfeld, the real estate developer. The proponents of the cooking school say the sale took place without their knowledge and after they had received repeated assurances from city officials that the Corn Exchange Building was not on the auction block. They say they plan to sue next week, challenging the sale on the ground that the bidding was not open.
"We believe that the Mayor contravened the city charter by not having an open bid process," said David W. Weschler, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who represents Resurgence, the group seeking the culinary school.
Ethel Bates, one of the leaders of the effort to create the cooking school, said that had she known about the auction, her group would have bid on the building. She said that she had been told repeatedly by city officials that the property would not be sold, even though it was listed for a public auction on May 12. She said she suspects that her project got caught between the conflicting agendas of different city agencies.
City officials declined to comment on the situation. The Mayor's press office, the city Economic Development Corporation and the office of Joseph J. Lhota, the Deputy Mayor for operations, did not respond to repeated requests for information over the last few days.
The Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which oversaw the auction, issued a statement that said it "sells surplus commercial property through auction. We do not have the authority to negotiate directly. This property was deemed surplus and sold at auction."
Mr. Hirschfeld, whose group paid $535,000 for the building, also declined to be interviewed. But through an assistant, he said his group had not decided what to do with the building and had been unaware of the proposal for the culinary institute.
The sale of the Corn Exchange Building has left many people disappointed. "We thought we had this thing in the bag," said Ms. Bates, who made a name for herself by leading the effort to clean up Marcus Garvey Park in Harlem and who has been leading the drive for the cooking school. "I've spent so much time, and there was so much hope going into that building."
Ms. Bates said she came up with the idea for the institute after learning that the food industry expected to face a labor shortage within a few years. To help defray her costs, she lined up several prospective tenants -- among them, Ark Restaurants, the company that owns Lutece.
Michael Weinstein, the president of Ark, had written a letter expressing interest in leasing space from her for an uptown version of his popular West Side restaurant, the Columbus Bakery, to operate in conjunction with the cooking school.
Lewis Rudin, the real estate developer and civic leader, helped Ms. Bates with the project. He said he had participated because he wanted to see the building turned over to Harlem residents. "They were prepared to do what had to be done to make this into a valuable asset for the community," Mr. Rudin said. "They would be training people in a profession that is constantly growing."
Without the Corn Exchange Building, plans for the culinary institute cannot go forward, Ms. Bates said, because a major selling point for prospective commercial tenants was the landmark status of the building and its reputation as one of the most beautiful structures in Harlem.
Mr. Weinstein of Ark Restaurants said the Corn Exchange project offered an opportunity to enter an underserved market at an affordable rent. He said he had expected his restaurant to cater to Harlem residents.
For the new owners, getting the Corn Exchange Building into shape will be a major undertaking.
Constructed in 1883, just as Harlem was being transformed from a village into an urban residential neighborhood, the building has bay windows and trim made of sandstone, terra cotta and metal. It is described by the City Landmarks Preservation Commission as an outstanding example of both the Queen Anne and Romanesque Revival architectural styles of the 19th century.
Originally, the two bottom floors of the six-story building served as the headquarters for the Mount Morris Bank (which merged with the Corn Exchange Bank in 1913), while the upper floors were an apartment house known as the Morris.
The city took over the building in 1972. A fire destroyed the roof in 1997, forcing the removal of the two upper stories.
The New York Landmarks Conservancy, a private organization, has estimated that it will cost more than $7.5 million to rehabilitate the building. The owners will be required to work with the Landmarks Preservation Commission to make sure that the exterior is properly restored and that nothing is done inside the building that may damage the outside, said Terri Rosen Deutsch, a spokeswoman for the commission.
The site is likely to prove attractive to commercial tenants because of its convenient location, Ms. Bates said. It is across the street from the Metro-North railroad station at 125th Street and a block away from a new Pathmark supermarket.
David Givens, the chairman of Community Board 11 in East Harlem, said he hoped that the new owners would consult with his organization before deciding what to do with the building.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ethel Bates and others had hoped to convert the city-owned Corn Exchange Building, at Park Avenue and 125th Street, into a culinary school. But their hopes were dashed when the vacant building was sold at auction. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARKR (AMEX) (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HARLEM CULINARY INSTITUTE ARK RESTAURANTS CORP (63%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEM CULINARY INSTITUTE LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CORN EXCHANGE BUILDING (NYC); FOOD; PUBLIC PROPERTY; RESTAURANTS; COOKING AND COOKBOOKS AUCTIONS (90%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LEGAL AID (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); LAWYERS (69%); 

PERSON: HIRSCHFELD, ELIE; PRISTIN, TERRY ETHEL BATES (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



548 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B;Page 9;Column 1;Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: For the High-Minded, It's Blah, Blah, Blah;
Talks Are Cheap for Seekers of Ideas Who Are Willing to Listen

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
With Old World rivals like Paris and Berlin and New World rivals like Seattle and Silicon Valley, New York City can hardly claim to be the brain capital of the world.
But you wouldn't necessarily know that from all the talking going on. Call them seminars or lectures or discussions, but the city is truly brimming with forums for the thinking man, woman and child. In any given week an intrepid idea-seeker can find serious discussions about everything from the growing presence of Islam in America to the social history of popcorn. 
 Want to know how to cross-hybridize corn? There are talks at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. How about an in-depth look at democracy in Cuba? Check out the Brecht Forum on Tuesday.
In the age of Barnes & Noble and other super-size bookstores, literary discussion groups are meeting regularly to chat about Vietnam novels and science fiction and New Age tomes. Then there are the literary fan clubs, societies devoted to the work of late great authors like Yeats and Dickens.
Last week alone a New Yorker could find dozens of people sitting down to learn about Surrealist film, beach erosion and the history of marriage from a feminist perspective. There were appearances by seminar stars like Stephen Jay Gould, the historian, who can pack a room on a topic like "The Impossibility of Historical Prediction," and celebrity lecturers like the composer Philip Glass, whose talent for artful digression rivals that of many more experienced speakers.
All of this tossing about of ideas gives rise to a curious question: could one, by visiting many of these lectures and listening closely enough, pick up some sense of the city's intellectual zeitgeist?
The short answer is no. To be sure, there is plenty of millennial reflection going on right now, and more than a few speakers tossing around words like "calendric" and "fin de siecle."
But rather than indicating a common theme, this profusion of talkers and listeners testifies instead to the city's enormously varied intellectual appetite. It also shows off the city as a place where people with specific interests -- sometimes, exceedingly specific -- can find like-minded folk to commune with.
What follows is an account of a weeklong survey of the city's educated chatter.
The first stop, as any lecture junkie will tell you, was bound to be a big-time bookstore. Hoping to lure buyers into the stacks, chains like Barnes & Noble and Borders Books have been aggressive about scheduling authors with new books to discuss and read from their work.
On Monday, the choices included a speaker on the history of coffee at Barnes & Noble on the Upper East Side and a discussion of the work of Bernhard Schlink at the Barnes & Noble in Forest Hills, Queens.
No. And no. Instead, my choice was a lecture by Paul Levinson, a professor of communications history and philosophy at Fordham University, whose most recent book is "Digital McLuhan," a look at the lasting influence of Marshall McLuhan in the age of the Internet. The locale was a Borders at the World Trade Center, with an audience of about 40, including a man who slept before, during and after the event.
Mr. Levinson, flanked by stacks of photography books and others merely labeled "Art," expounded on likenesses between the futuristic visions of Mr. McLuhan, who invented the term Global Village, and today's World Wide Web.
"Mr. McLuhan was not able to write on the Web, but his approach was Web-like," Mr. Levinson said, citing Mr. McLuhan's propensity for short chapters and nonlinear thought in his books. The comments drew a round of emphatic nods.
"What would Marshall McLuhan have said about the Internet and the Web?" Mr. Levinson said. "It's impossible to say." He paused and added with a laugh: "Except that he would have had a lot to say about it."
Tuesday's schedule was to begin early, with a 7:30 A.M. talk with the television commentator Cokie Roberts at the 92d Street Y. But upon arriving, I discovered a sacred rule of the intellectual set: they like to sleep late. The event had been canceled.
The 92d Street Y is one of the city's premier temples of talk, a list that includes the New York Public Library, the Asia Society and the Pierpont Morgan Library, which has a series of afternoon discussions. And while summer may be a slow time for the city's colleges and universities, they generally offer countless lectures that are open to the public.
Many churches and museums also offer issue-oriented events. Ms. Roberts, in fact, would make an appearance at Trinity Church later that afternoon, speaking on religion and politics.
For true intellectual heft, however, perhaps few spots can rival the Brecht Forum, where Mr. Gould spoke on Tuesday night. The first words I heard upon entering were "imperialist dialectic interpretation of history."
The forum is on the 10th floor of 122 West 27th Street in Chelsea, a loft space where papier mache wall hangings and pamphlets jockey for visitors' attention.
Mr. Gould had drawn a standing-room-only crowd dotted with older men with ponytails, older women with spectacles and graduate student types scribbling notes on legal pads. The amiable Mr. Gould, with a pair of glasses hung around his neck, hit upon Karl Marx's funeral ("Only nine people were there"), the year 2000 ("a wonderfully arbitrary transition") and Yogi Berra's wisdom ("The future ain't what it used to be") before finally alighting on his thesis: that people, especially scientists, are terrible at predicting the future.
As an example, Mr. Gould told the story of an early chairman of Mercedes-Benz who once predicted that Europe would never sustain more than a million cars. The reason? That the Continent's citizenry could only ever produce a million chauffeurs.
Mr. Gould's point was that the underlying biases of class, race and economics often skewed any possibility of prognostication. "Scientific biases prevent accurate prediction," he said. "And always have."
There was much scribbling as I left.
The next stop was the Kitchen, the venerable experimental theater space on West 19th Street, the site of a batch of summertime lectures by members of the Kitchen's artistic family.
The seats were nearly all filled with a younger crowd than that at the Brecht Forum. The lights dimmed theatrically as Mr. Glass approached a small table draped in black and lighted by a single overhead spotlight. He immediately said that his lecture, titled "Collaboration and the New Technology," presented a problem.
"I made up the title months ago," Mr. Glass said. "Now, I've had to figure out what it was about."
Speaking in a voice barely above a burble, Mr. Glass touched on the miraculous technology of the piano (see lecture title), and his artistic collaborations (see lecture title) with everyone from Jerome Robbins to Martin Scorsese. But the most absorbing moments came when Mr. Glass's focus strayed a bit.
"CD-ROM is already on the way out," he said at one point, seeming alarmed and amused all at once. "Did you know that?"
Or: "I've noticed my cat doesn't watch television. Does yours?"
Or: "The only place the composer is the boss is in the opera house. That's why I write so many operas."
At evening's end a young composer asked Mr. Glass's advice about the profession. Mr. Glass puzzled for a bit and finally answered: "Think what you could do that would make your teachers really angry. That would probably be the most interesting thing to do."
The following night I tried a couple of the city's newer venues, the two-year-old Newseum and Joe's Pub, the recently opened cabaret spot at the Public Theater.
The Newseum auditorium is a sleek Madison Avenue lecture hall popular with that famously loquacious breed, the journalist. Booking reporters as speakers has its drawbacks, of course; a talk on Monday by the photojournalist Harry Benson was canceled when he was called away on assignment.
Helen Thomas, veteran White House correspondent and recent author of a memoir, spoke about her experiences. Beltway reminiscences ensued: of Lyndon B. Johnson, who "couldn't stand anybody speaking for him"; Hillary Clinton, who "just hates the press"; and President Clinton, who "has been very nice to me."
The crowd, unswayed by Ms. Thomas's assertion that reporters shouldn't be celebrities, ate it up.
Joe's Pub, which usually presents music, turned literary Wednesday with a selection of readings from The New Yorker's latest fiction issue. Special attractions included celebrity readers, girls in slinky dresses looking to impress New Yorker editors and lots of cocktails.
The final evening of talk, Thursday, highlights what may be the seminar scene's most important contribution to the city's intellectual landscape: bringing together people with particular interests. At the Lesbian and Gay Community Center in the West Village, for example, E. J. Graff, a writer, discussed same-sex marriages.
Then at Borders Books at East 57th Street and Park Avenue, four African-American authors gathered to discuss the topic of "The Importance of Writing About Contemporary Black Life." The audience was almost exclusively black, a marked change from most of the other events I attended. One at a time, each author discussed pressing issues for black artists, including stereotyping by publishers and the complications of success for blacks in America.
"I started writing because I wanted to write about where we are now," said Benilde Little, a novelist. "We are the most educated, most affluent, and probably the most confused."
Events like this, she said, offer an opportunity to reflect on those confusions.
"You have to have a community where we can be ourselves," Ms. Little said, "drop the masks and let our hair down."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in the Arts & Ideas pages on Saturday with an article about the variety of lectures and discussions in New York misspelled the surname of an author who discussed issues affecting black artists. She is Valerie Wilson Wesley, not Weslie.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The composer Philip Glass addressing an audience at the Kitchen on "Collaboration and the New Technology." The author Valerie Wilson Weslie, below, spoke about pressing issues for black artists. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BKS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (83%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (73%); CUBA (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (73%); CUBA (56%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. LITERATURE (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); WRITERS (88%); HISTORY (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MILLENNIUM (65%); RELIGION (55%); EROSION (51%); COFFEE (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN JAY GOULD (55%); PHILIP GLASS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



549 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B;Page 7;Column 1;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: Fred C. Trump, Postwar Master Builder of Housing for Middle Class, Dies at 93

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
Fred C. Trump, one of the last of New York City's major postwar builders, died yesterday at a hospital in Queens. He was 93 and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens.
Although Mr. Trump was stricken with Alzheimer's disease six years ago, he still retained his title of chairman of the board of Trump Management, a title he held since the company was formed in the mid-1960's. 
 Mr. Trump, like Sam LeFrak, another master builder, helped change the face of Brooklyn and Queens with thousands of homes for the middle class in plain but sturdy brick rental towers, clustered together in immaculately groomed parks. Although overshadowed in the news for the last two decades by his flamboyant son Donald, Mr. Trump, a self-made man, built more than 27,000 apartments and row houses in the neighborhoods of Coney Island, Bensonhurst, Sheepshead Bay, Flatbush, and Brighton Beach in Brooklyn and Flushing and Jamaica Estates in Queens.
His estate has been estimated by the family at $250 million to $300 million, but Mr. Trump did not believe in displays of wealth -- with one exception. For decades, he insisted on a Cadillac, always navy blue, always gleaming, and always replaced every three years, its "FCT" license plate announcing its owner wherever he went.
He was a frugal man. According to his sons, he would routinely drive his Cadillac to one of his many construction sites after the day's work was over. Wearing a natty suit -- with his chiseled features and wide grin, he resembled a silent-film star -- he would walk through the studs and across the plywood floors, picking up unused nails to hand back to his carpenters the next day.
Frederick Christ (pronounced Krist) Trump was born in New York City in 1905. From World War II until the 1980's, Mr. Trump would tell friends and acquaintances that he was of Swedish origin, although both his parents were born in Germany. John Walter, his nephew and the family historian, explained, "He had a lot of Jewish tenants and it wasn't a good thing to be German in those days."
His father was a barber who arrived from Kallstadt, Germany, in 1885 and joined the Alaska gold rush. By the turn of the century, he owned the White Horse Restaurant and Inn in White Horse, Alaska, while also supplying food and lumber to the miners. He went back to Germany to court his neighbor Elizabeth Christ and married her in 1902. When they returned to New York, they settled down in a single-family house in Woodhaven, Queens. They had three children; when Fred C. was 13, his father died of pneumonia.
Two years later, at 15, he started his own construction business while continuing his high school education. He knew he was too young to build entire houses, so he thought of building housing for the new mode of transportation then sweeping the nation; after all, those newfangled automobiles needed garages. Too young to sign checks, he became partners with his mother, Elizabeth: they called their company E. Trump & Son. His mother, who was a dynamo in her own right, was the partner who signed the checks.
Their business was a success, and one of the things he did with his earnings, his sons said, was to help send his younger brother John to Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, then to Columbia for his master's and then to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he received his Ph.D.
When he started at Brooklyn Poly, John Trump was planning to become an architect and to go into business with his brother Fred. The two actually built one or two houses together, Mr. Walter said, but before long, they realized they had two very different philosophies.
"They laughed about it together later," their nephew said. "John designed the house, and before it was finished, Fred wanted to sell it; you know, that's what you do when you're in real estate. But John was a scientist; he wanted to wait until it was totally done. After about a year, my uncle John switched to electrical engineering."
As he grew older, Fred Trump began building single-family houses in the late 1920's -- most of them in Queens -- which were sold for $3,990 each. The concept of supermarkets was new back then, too, and when Mr. Trump built Trump Market in Woodhaven in the middle of the Depression and advertised, "Serve Yourself and Save!" it was an instant hit. About a year later, Mr. Trump sold the store for a profit to the King Kullen chain.
In World War II, Mr. Trump builtbarracks and garden apartments for the Navy in Chester, Pa., Newport News, and Norfolk, Va. When the fighting was over and apartments for returning servicemen and their families were in short supply, he branched out into middle-income housing; he built Shore Haven in Bensonhurst in 1949 and Beach Haven near Coney Island the next year for a total of 2,700 apartments. In 1963, he put up the 3,800-apartment Trump Village in Coney Island -- five years after his contemporary, Mr. LeFrak, began Lefrak City in Queens.
"He made a great contribution; he filled a very big hole in the market," Mr. LeFrak recalled. "We took Queens; he did more in Brooklyn. He was a great builder who rallied to the cause like we did; he built housing for the returning veterans. I guess you could say we're the last of the old dinosaurs."
In 1936, Mr. Trump married Mary McLeod, who had come to this country when she was 19 from Stornoway, Scotland. Miss McLeod had two sisters who lived in New York; shortly after she arrived, her sisters took her to a dance, where she met Fred Trump. They had five children. In addition to his wife and his sons Robert and Donald, he is survived by two daughters, Maryanne Trump Barry of New York City, who is a Federal judge, and Elizabeth Trump Grau of New York City. Another son, Fred Trump Jr., died in 1981. Both his brother John and his sister, Elizabeth Trump Walters, are dead.
Mr. and Mrs. Trump liked to assist young people who hungered for a career in real estate. Richard Levy, now a senior vice president at Tishman Real Estate, said that when he was in his early 20's, he remembers going to Mr. Trump's office, a reconverted dentist's office in the Beach Haven development near Coney Island. "I felt like Custer," he said. "There were all these huge wooden Indians all over the place." Mr. Levy looked at a wall "covered with plaques from every organization and pictures with Presidents, and here's this giant of a man -- he was well over six feet -- and he just stuck out his hand and said 'Hi. My name is Fred.' "
Mr. Trump then started to discuss a baseball game played the night before. When Mr. Levy left, he said to Robert Trump that he was surprised to find the elder Trump was such a baseball fan. From young Trump he learned, "He wasn't a fan at all, but he knew I was."
In the recession of the 1970's, Mr. Trump, who retained ownership of most of the rental buildings he built, started buying up apartment buildings from other builders, who had run into trouble keeping up their properties. According to Edward S. Gordon, a commercial real estate executive, Mr. Trump amassed the buildings in a "very quiet way." Mr. Gordon praised Mr. Trump's business acumen, saying, "Most smart men and women paid attention to the ball; Fred Trump focused on the shadow of the ball."
Mr. Trump was a demon for controlling costs. Besides collecting unused nails, Mr. Gordon said, Mr. Trump often performed the exterminating chores in his buildings by himself. "He became an expert," Mr. Gordon said.
When it was time to order the thousands of gallons of disinfectant necessary for his thousands of apartments, Mr. Trump gathered samples of all the available floor cleaners on his desk. "Then he sent them out to a lab and found out what was in them and had it mixed himself," Donald Trump recalled. "What had cost $2 a bottle, he got mixed for 50 cents." And he knew how to get the most of his workers when they used those chemicals. "He would walk up to some little guy polishing something, and say: 'Wow, this is the best shine I've ever seen,' " Mr. Levy said. "And that guy promptly started scrubbing away like crazy."
In the mid-70's, Mr. Trump lent support -- and a small amount of money -- to his son Donald's aspirations of becoming a developer. "But what he lent was mostly knowledge; Donald really did it on his own, along with whatever boost he got from being Fred Trump's son, of course," Robert Trump said.
Recently, Donald Trump said he was happy his father stuck to Brooklyn and Queens. "It was good for me," the developer said, chuckling. "You know, being the son of somebody, it could have been competition to me. This way, I got Manhattan all to myself!"
Fred and Mary Trump donated the pavilion that bears the Trump name to the Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in appreciation of the care received there by Mrs. Trump. They gave a two-building rental complex in Brooklyn to the National Kidney Foundation of New York/New Jersey and to Community Mainstreaming Associates of Great Neck, an organization that provides homes for functionally retarded adults. Mr. Trump gave another building to the Cerebral Palsy Foundation of New York and New Jersey, which has since turned it into co-op. He also supported the Hospital for Special Surgery in Manhattan, the Long Island Jewish Hospital and the Kew Forest School in Queens, where his children went to school.
Mr. Trump liked to be surrounded by familiar things and familiar people. He still employed Amy Luerssen, his secretary for 59 years. And he and his wife of 61 years still lived in the red-brick Colonial they built in 1951 on a half-acre lot in the leafy, middle-class suburb of Jamaica Estates, in Queens.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An obituary of the real estate developer Fred C. Trump on June 26 misstated the location of the White Horse Restaurant and Inn where his father supplied food and lumber to miners in the gold rush. It was in the Yukon Territory, not in Alaska.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fred C. Trump, right, with his son Donald atop one of his Beach Haven apartment buildings in Brooklyn in 1973. In the background is Trump Village, a complex in Coney Island that the elder Mr. Trump built. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (85%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (85%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); DEATHS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORY (77%); CHILDREN (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (72%); RELIGION (68%); WORLD WAR II (66%); RESTAURANTS (65%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); PNEUMONIA (50%); 

PERSON: FRED C TRUMP (95%); JOHN R WALTER (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



550 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 1;Column 1;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2023 words

HEADLINE: How 2 Priests Got Mixed Up In a Huge Insurance Scandal

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

DATELINE: ROME, June 25

 BODY:
As priests, they make an unlikely pair. One is an affable, worldly American bon vivant who zooms around Rome on a raffish blue motorbike and defied his New York archbishop in the 1980's by running a trendy Manhattan restaurant to raise money for the poor. The other is an owlish Italian canon law scholar who serves as an emeritus judge on the Roman Rota, the court of appeals of the Holy See.
Together, the Rev. Peter Jacobs, 73, and Msgr. Emilio Colagiovanni, 79, provided a clerical cloak of respectability for a Greenwich, Conn., money manager who authorities suspect embezzled more than $300 million from insurers across the United States. Both men insist they were badly duped by Martin R. Frankel, who disappeared last month and is wanted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
 The priests say they knew Mr. Frankel as David Rosse, a middle-aged tycoon who claimed descent from the Jewish King David and said he was eager to give at least $50 million to the church.
They supported the St. Francis of Assisi Foundation, a charity Mr. Frankel set up and then tried to use to buy several American insurance companies . He named Father Jacobs president of that foundation. Monsignor Colagiovanni, who had his own foundation, said he went a step further, giving Mr. Frankel's charity power to move funds in and out of the Vatican bank account of Monsignor Colagiovanni's foundation.
With Federal investigators in the United States scouring the records of Mr. Frankel's intricate financial transactions, those actions have left both priests exposed and vulnerable. And it has turned both into virtual pariahs inside the Vatican.
The Vatican spokesman, Joaquin Navarro-Valls, said there was no link whatsoever between the Vatican and Mr. Frankel. He also denied any connection between Monsignor Colagiovanni's Monitor Ecclesiasticus Foundation and the Vatican.
Yet before the scandal erupted, senior Vatican officials were also intrigued by Mr. Frankel's professed desire to shower riches on church charities. At least two senior Vatican officials met with Mr. Frankel's American lawyer, Thomas A. Bolan, and tried to help his client set up a charitable foundation that would be part of the Vatican.
Mr. Bolan, a former law partner of the late Roy Cohn, met in Rome to discuss the foundation with Bishop Francesco Salerio Salerno, and Monsignor Gianfranco Piovano, top Vatican officials, according to his lawyer, Maurice R. Nessen, and the two priests. Reading from his notes of what Mr. Bolan recollects, Mr. Nessen said tonight that the meetings in Rome centered on how an outside philanthropist could channel money through the Vatican to support religious causes.
Church officials have been highly sensitive to any hint of a banking scandal since the 1980's, when the Vatican bank was badly tainted by its ties to the Banco Ambrosiana, which collapsed after a huge financial scandal.
Bishop Salerno is now secretary of the Apostolic Signatura, the supreme court of the church. At the time of the meeting with Mr. Bolan, he was secretary of the Prefecture for the Economic Affairs of the Holy See. In an interview today, Bishop Salerno said he had denied ever discussing the foundation with Mr. Bolan, though he said he did so with Monsignor Colagiovanni. "I could not refuse Monsignor Colagiovanni, he is a judge on the Roman Rota," he explained.
 
Hypothetical Approval For an American Role
Monsignor Salerno said he told other Vatican officials that "hypothetically" nothing would legally prevent an American financier from opening a charitable foundation in the Vatican. "The Vatican is a sovereign state, anything can be done, but the question is will it be authorized," Bishop Salerno said.
Mr. Nessen, Mr. Bolan's lawyer, said that his client had a later meeting with Monsignor Piovano, an assistant Vatican Secretary of State, who disagreed with Bishop Salerno, pointing out that Mr. Frankel could not be allowed to control a Vatican foundation's assets, especially since Mr. Frankel also wished to invest in insurance companies in America.
Eventually, however, the two sides worked out a compromise: the Monitor Ecclesiasticus Foundation, Monsignor Colagiovanni's cultural and charitable organization, could act as "founder" -- in legal terms as "settlor" -- of a new, independent foundation controlled by Mr. Frankel. According to Mr. Nessen, the new foundation would be named after St. Francis of Assisi and could claim links to the Vatican, as Mr. Frankel desired. Mr. Nessen said that Monsignor Salerno was aware of and approved this arrangement in advance. Asked in writing to respond, Bishop Salerno did not reply.
But after Mr. Frankel's suspected embezzlement schemes came to light, the Vatican sought to distance itself from the American -- and his associates in the church.
Mr. Navarro-Valls described Monsignor Colagiovanni, who as president of Monitor Ecclesiasticus edits a Vatican-approved canonical law quarterly and also runs its charitable arm, as a "pensioner." Mr. Navarro-Valls said he knew nothing about Father Jacobs, but volunteered that he was an "ex-Jew."
Bishop Salerno also pointed out Father Jacobs's Jewish roots after the scandal surfaced. Surprisingly, neither he nor Mr. Navarro-Valls nor others mentioned the fact that Father Jacobs was formally rebuked by the Roman Catholic Church in 1983, after he ignored an archbishop's order to cease operating his New York restaurant, The Palantine. Father Jacobs's right to perform priestly duties was suspended at that time because he violated church rules about business transactions.
Father Jacobs, who continues to serve mass and perform weddings, said in an interview that he believed his suspension was reversed in 1987 after he gave up the business. According to his archdiocese in Washington, however, the suspension was reversed, but not the ban on giving sacraments.
"Priestly faculties are like a medical license, and Father Jacobs's were never restored," Monsignor William E. Lori, Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of Washington, explained on Thursday. "The sacraments he performed since 1983 are not valid."
Father Jacobs was born in New Hampshire, the son of a Jewish father and an Catholic mother. Father Jacobs was baptized as a Catholic, but he only began practicing his faith while serving in the Navy during World War II. He was ordained in 1955.
In his long, colorful and highly unorthodox career as a priest, he has made interfaith marriages a specialty. It was, in fact, an interfaith society wedding that brought Father Jacobs and Monsignor Colagiovanni together in 1994.
They first met, Monsignor Colagiovanni recalled in an interview, at the Vatican bank, known as the Istituto per le Opere di Religione. Monsignor Colagiovanni's foundation has an account there. Father Jacobs said that he was there visiting old friends who worked in the bank.
"He is a very social fellow," Monsignor Colagiovanni said of Father Jacobs. Soon after that meeting, Father Jacobs sought out Monsignor Colagiovanni's expertise in arranging a Catholic church wedding for a divorced Jewish man and a Catholic woman. Monsignor Colagiovanni said he had no idea at the time he was helping one of America's wealthiest men, Edgar Bronfman Jr. president of the Seagram Company, marry Clarissa Alcock, the daughter of an oil executive, in Caracas, Venezuela. Father Jacobs said he officiated at the service, alongside a local priest and a rabbi, over the objections of the local cardinal. An associate of the Bronfman family said that this was untrue, and that the local priest had officiated, with Father Jacobs serving as a "greeter."
 
Famous Connections Around the World
Father Jacobs, who has worked in the slums of New York and Washington, also hobnobs with European aristocrats and counts the late Princess Grace of Monaco, Walter Cronkite and Arrigo Cipriani and a restaurateur among his many friends. Another was Mr. Bolan.
In August of 1998, Monsignor Colagiovanni said he got another call from Father Jacobs when he was on holiday in Cleveland. "He told me there was a Jewish millionaire who wanted to do good things for the church and the poor," Monsignor Colagiovanni recalled.
He flew at Mr. Frankel's expense to New York, where he and Father Jacobs and Mr. Bolan had dinner at Cipriani's. Father Jacobs said he had known Mr. Bolan for 30 years and had helped him through a variety of family crises.
Soon after the dinner, all three men drove to Greenwich, Conn., to meet the aspiring benefactor. Both priests said they were surprised and impressed by Mr. Frankel's library, which was crammed with books on Catholicism, ranging from Papal encyclicals to hundreds of tomes devoted to St. Francis of Assisi. "He had actually read the encyclicals," Father Jacobs said. "Even I haven't read them all."
But the priest also noticed Mr. Frankel's weird side, particularly his obsessive fear of germs. "He reminded me of the Jack Nicholson character in 'As Good as it Gets,' who kept washing his hands over and over," Father Jacobs said.
Msg. Colagiovanni, like Father Jacobs, received from Mr. Frankel a 13-page autobiographical sketch that laid out his financial credentials and his piety, including his self-professed hero worship for Albert Schweitzer and St. Francis of Assisi. It said he was smitten by Franco Zefferelli's "Brother Sun, Sister Moon," which he said he saw "every day for five weekdays."
Msg. Colagiovanni said he was convinced of Mr. Frankel's good intentions, but he said that when Mr. Frankel explained his desire to give $50 million dollars to Catholic charities by setting up his own foundation at the Vatican, he told him that was impossible. "I explained no lay person could bank there," Mr. Colagiovanni said.
He said he encouraged Mr. Frankel to start his own private foundation. But Mr. Frankel was apparently so keen to bank at the Vatican that he dispatched his lawyer, Mr. Bolan, to Rome by Concorde to meet with Vatican officials and explain his offer.
The two sides eventually settled on the compromise and founded the St. Francis Foundation. Mr. Jacobs said that he learned that he was appointed a trustee and president of the St. Francis foundation after seeing his name on a document.
Mr. Frankel also ardently pursued celebrities to add legitimacy to his organization. Lee A. Iacocca, the former Chrysler chairman, rejected Mr. Frankel's overtures to serve on the St. Francis foundation board. But Mr. Frankel did not readily accept no for an answer: He paid for Mr. Iacocca to fly on a leased Gulfstream IV executive jet from Los Angeles to Milan, Italy, where Mr. Iacocca attended to some business, a spokesperson for Mr. Iacocca said.
And Mr. Frankel may have pressured Mr. Jacobs to use his own connections. Walter Cronkite said that he had received and rejected a request from Father Jacobs to serve on the advisory board. Mr. Cronkite heard nothing more about the matter until early May.
"Father Pete called and left a very cryptic message" at my office, Mr. Cronkite said. "He said 'the man who has given a billion dollars has apparently absconded with the money, the whole thing is a mess. I'm sorry I listed you as a member of the board of advisors. I hope it doesn't cause you any problems.' "
Msg. Colagiovanni said that he told Mr. Frankel he did not want to be involved with collecting funds or investing money. He signed over to Father Jacobs, president of the St. Francis Foundation, the right to use the bank account of the Monitor Ecclesiaticus Foundation, which is in the Vatican bank. But Mr. Frankel apparently never tapped that source: both priests said that Mr. Frankel never sent any money to either foundation.
Mr. Frankel instead used Mr. Colagiovanni's connections in a different way. Msgr. C said that the American financier persuaded him to sign a November 1998 affadavit that stated that funds contributed to the St. Francis Foundation came from "funds of the Holy See." Mr. Frankel's lawyers used that document to support their claims that Mr. Frankel's charity and business dealings had the approval of the Vatican.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 17, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on June 26 about the religious connections of Martin Frankel, the fugitive money manager from Greenwich, Conn., referred incorrectly to restrictions imposed by the Archdiocese of Washington on the Rev. Peter Jacobs, a Roman Catholic priest involved in Mr. Frankel's dealings. In 1983 the archdiocese suspended Father Jacobs's authorization to function as a priest, an action that invalidates marriages he may have performed since then. The action did not invalidate other sacraments possibly performed by Father Jacobs, like baptisms or the celebrations of Mass.
The article also misstated the clerical title of William E. Lori, an official of the archdiocese who described the restrictions. He is a bishop, not a monsignor.

GRAPHIC: Photo (pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HOLY SEE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOLY SEE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCANDALS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); LAWYERS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INSURANCE (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EMBEZZLEMENT (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); 

PERSON: PETER JACOBS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1999



551 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 30; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 27, 1999

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1		1	HANNIBAL, by Thomas Harris. (Delacorte, $27.95.) Seven years after his escape, the fiendish psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter is still at large.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	1	2	HARRY POTTER AND THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $17.95.) A British boy finds trouble when he returns to a witchcraft school.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	2	6	WHITE OLEANDER, by Janet Fitch. (Little, Brown, $24.) The ordeals of growing up as experienced by a teen-age girl whose single mother murders a lover.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	3	6	STAR WARS: Episode I -- The Phantom Menace, by Terry Brooks. (Lucas/Ballantine, $25.) How it all began for Anakin Skywalker (a k a Darth Vader).		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	7	27	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $16.95.) A British boy finds his fortune attending a school for witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	4	170	OH, THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! by Dr. Seuss. (Random House, $17.) The problems of finding your way through life; in verse and pictures.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	6	8	WE'LL MEET AGAIN, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A woman struggles to free herself of the suspicion that she murdered her husband.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8*	5	5	CERTAIN PREY, by John Sandford. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lucas Davenport pursues a woman who is a longtime successful paid killer.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	9	19	THE TESTAMENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A reclusive billionaire, a burned-out lawyer and a young woman who works as a missionary in the jungles of Brazil are brought together by a startling secret.	 	 	 	 	 10	8	10	THE GIRL WHO LOVED TOM GORDON, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $16.95.) When a young girl gets lost in the woods, she is saved by her spiritual association with a relief pitcher for the Boston Red Sox.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	15	2	DANGEROUS KISS, by Jackie Collins. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) Lucky Santangelo copes with many problems as she tracks down the killer of a member of her family.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12		1	PEARL COVE, by Elizabeth Lowell. (Avon, $24.) In seeking help in solving the mystery of her husband's death, a woman finds an intriguing romance.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	10	8	EAST OF THE MOUNTAINS, by David Guterson. (Harcourt Brace, $25.) A man with cancer returns to the eastern Washington of his youth to commit suicide.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	13	2	THE GIRLS' GUIDE TO HUNTING AND FISHING, by Melissa Bank. (Viking, $23.95.) The progress of a young New York woman through the terrain of sex and love.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15	14	5	BEYOND THE GREAT SNOW MOUNTAINS, by Louis L'Amour. (Bantam, $16.95.) Ten short stories ranging from the Old West to Hollywood to Siberia.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	28	THE GREATEST GENERATION, by Tom Brokaw. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of men and women who came of age during the Depression and World War II.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	3	88	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Doubleday, $19.95.) A sportswriter tells of his weekly visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	2	5	EVERY MAN A TIGER, by Tom Clancy with Chuck Horner. (Putnam, $27.95.) The novelist and a retired Air Force general examine the Persian Gulf war.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	5	3	I AIN'T GOT TIME TO BLEED, by Jesse Ventura. (Villard, $19.95.) Reflections on politics, pro wrestling and other subjects by the Governor of Minnesota.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	4	5	BETRAYAL, by Bill Gertz. (Regnery, $27.95.) A reporter charges that the Clinton Administration has undermined America's security. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	12	11	THE MAJORS, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $25.) A sportswriter reports on the 1998 Masters, U.S. Open, British Open and P.G.A. golf tournaments.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	6	3	CINDERELLA STORY, by Bill Murray with George Peper. (Doubleday, $19.95.) The golfing adventures of the actor and comedian.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	7	3	ENCORE PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Knopf, $23.) Further experiences in the south of France.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9*	13	30	THE CENTURY, by Peter Jennings and Todd Brewster. (Doubleday, $60.) An account of the 20th century.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	8	10	BELLA TUSCANY, by Frances Mayes. (Broadway, $25.) An American writer remembers a spring and summer spent in the romantic sections of Italy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	10	23	THE ART OF HAPPINESS, by the Dalai Lama and Howard C. Cutler. (Riverhead, $22.95.) What Buddhism and common sense tell us about everyday problems.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	14	4	NO ONE LEFT TO LIE TO, by Christopher Hitchens. (Verso, $19.) A journalist's critical view of the public and private life of Bill Clinton. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	11	13	YESTERDAY, I CRIED, by Iyanla Vanzant. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) A counselor describes how she turned painful experiences into feelings of hope.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	9	8	THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15*		13	ALL TOO HUMAN, by George Stephanopoulos. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) The former adviser to President Clinton recalls his years in the White House.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 16*		10	BUSINESS @ THE SPEED OF THOUGHT, by Bill Gates with Collins Hemingway. (Warner, $30.) How new technology is changing the ways business is done. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1		1	LIVE NOW, AGE LATER, by Isadore Rosenfeld. (Warner, $24.) A physician's advice about slowing the effects of aging.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	1	5	SUZANNE SOMERS' GET SKINNY ON FABULOUS FOOD, by Suzanne Somers. (Crown, $24.) A diet regimen to help people lose weight and remain healthy. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3		1	BODY FOR LIFE, by Bill Phillips with Michael D'Orso. (HarperCollins, $25.) Ways to improve one's body and one's life. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4		1	STAR WARS: Episode I -- The Visual Dictionary, by David West Reynolds. (Lucas/DK Publishing, $19.95.) An illustrated reference book about the film. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending June 12, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
And Bear in Mind
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
BRIEF INTERVIEWS WITH HIDEOUS MEN, by David Foster Wallace. (Little, Brown, $24.) In their depictions of characters whose deviant behavior puts them an angstrom away from undiluted sociopathy, these stories employ an incisive moral sensibility to dissect WASP-y male self-absorption.
 
A CLEARING IN THE DISTANCE: Frederick Law Olmsted and America in the Nineteenth Century, by Witold Rybczynski. (Scribner, $28.) How a modest man with no formal training in landscaping became a symphonist of public space, designing Central Park and other scenic masterworks.
 
A GIFT IMPRISONED: The Poetic Life of Matthew Arnold, by Ian Hamilton. (Basic Books, $24.) This portrait of the poet as a young man argues that beneath the foppish facade of drinking, gambling and nude bathing lay a tortured artist for whom the act of composition was tantamount to self-evisceration.
 
JUNETEENTH, by Ralph Ellison. Edited by John F. Callahan. (Random House, $25.) Assembled by his literary executor from mountains of notes, this story of a racist white senator raised as black may or may not be construed as Ellison's long-overdue second novel.
 
LAST THINGS, by Jenny Offill. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) A quirky first novel follows its 7-year-old protagonist as she observes the descent into madness of her mother, who has built them a private cosmos filled with signs and wonders.
 
LAYOVER, by Lisa Zeidner. (Random House, $24.) This novel's heroine, who has endured maternal loss and marital betrayal, simply fails to come home one day, embarking on a parallel life of free (read illegal) hotel rooms and relentless sexual conquest.
 
MATISSE: Father & Son, by John Russell. (Abrams, $39.95.) In a biographical diptych informed by previously unpublished (and revealingly intimate) family correspondence, Matisse pere and Matisse fils emerge as twin titans, one at making art, the other at selling it.
 
TIMBUKTU, by Paul Auster. (Holt, $22.) Bereft of his longtime companion, this novel's flea-bitten protagonist longs for nothing more than a bed, a bone and a biscuit but will settle for perpetual enlightenment.
 
TIPPING THE VELVET, by Sarah Waters. (Riverhead, $25.95.) Suffused with eros, this picaresque first novel chronicles a wide-eyed Victorian girl's ardor for a music-hall actress, her life in London's mean streets and her eventual redemption.
 
TOUGH, TOUGH TOYS FOR TOUGH, TOUGH BOYS, by Will Self. (Grove, $23.) Short fiction, at once amusing and appalling, that glories onomatopoetically in the yucky and unmasks revulsion as a species of the genus Desire. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (51%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WOMEN (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); BASEBALL (60%); 

PERSON: J K ROWLING (72%); JOHN GRISHAM (57%); STEPHEN KING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



552 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 34; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Right Out of the Closet

BYLINE: By David Brooks; David Brooks is a senior editor at The Weekly Standard.

 BODY:

PARTY CRASHER
A Gay Republican Challenges Politics as Usual.
By Richard Tafel.
253 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $25. 
 During the 1980's it appeared the Republican Party was about to grow a gay wing. There were a number of talented gay conservative writers working their way through the ranks. There were several more or less openly gay members of the Reagan Administration. George Bush is said to have won around 40 percent of the gay vote in 1988. It seemed only a matter of time before some foundation would shell out for a gay conservative journal, a gay conservative think tank, dull but worthy conferences and all the other accouterments that go with being a bona fide faction on the American right.
 But it hasn't worked out that way. In 1996 Bob Dole returned a donation from gay Republicans. The Senate leader, Trent Lott, told an interviewer that homosexual sex was sinful. And most significant, several of the prominent gay conservative writers have broken, often bitterly, with their former soul mates.
 So now the question is: Is it even possible to be a gay Republican, or are the two labels inimical? In his lively book, "Party Crasher," Richard Tafel argues that the breach can be healed. Tafel is the executive director of the Log Cabin Republicans, the gay organization that tried to give that $1,000 check to the Dole campaign. Now he spends his days as a campus speaker, press releaser, television talking head and grass-roots organizer. His book is part memoir -- how he emerged from the Harvard Divinity School into his quixotic role -- and part political statement.
 The best sections of the book simply describe what it is like to be a gay Republican, which seems to be akin to standing in the middle of a field with a hurricane hitting you from one side and a tornado slamming you from the other, while you look up hopefully for blue sky. From the right comes complacent prejudice. It seems that every gay Republican has found himself with a group of conservative types in which somebody starts referring to "queers." From the gay left comes public demonization. Apparently, every gay Republican has had a gay friend tell him that voting for the Republicans is like a Jew voting for the Nazis.
 Why would anybody volunteer for such abuse? Many Log Cabin members, Tafel writes, were aware of themselves as Republicans before they became aware of themselves as gay. Most believe in limited government, and many admire the way Ronald Reagan fought the cold war. But for many there is a special fervor, as if they were on some gay Peace Corps mission to the country clubs. They want to make sure homosexual voices are heard in both major parties, and to make sure that homosexuals in turn hear Republican ideas about economic liberty. One of Tafel's colleagues tells him: "From the day I accepted Harvard's scholarship I have never forgotten the words of one of my interviewers: 'You will be expected to give back in your life what we are giving you today.' . . . I am giving much more of my time and money to Log Cabin than I had ever expected to, but I consider my work in the gay community as part of my solemn duty to make this world a better place."
 It certainly takes thick skin. "I didn't get involved in politics to be liked," Tafel quotes himself saying. And it is clear that one reason Tafel can take the abuse is that he is generously coated with self-esteem. This book could have been called "Arguments I Have Won," for all the passages in which Tafel describes himself coming back with just the right retort, or scoring yet another klieg-light conquest. Living in Washington, I thought I was inured to self-admiration, but passages here would leave Narcissus gaping and applauding.
 The important issue is whether there is actual intellectual ground for a gay Republican to stand on, or are gay Republicans just another set of oxymoronic oddities for talk show bookers? Tafel argues that gay political thinking falls into three main strains. There are the assimilationists, who hold black-tie dinners and hope to establish that gay men and lesbians are just like everyone else. Then there are the liberationists, heavily influenced by Marxism, who view gay issues as "one of a cluster of social justice issues that required comprehensive societal change." Finally, there are libertarians, who see sexual orientation as one facet of their lives, but rarely the most important one. Libertarians reject group labels, believing each person is responsible for his or her own destiny. And of course libertarians are suspicious of the state, believing government should stay out of economic as well as private life. Tafel is a libertarian.
 He makes an outstanding case that some homosexuals should call themselves libertarian and maybe sometimes vote for Republican candidates. He doesn't make a good case that homosexuals should call themselves Republicans. Because the Republican Party, for all its commitment to limited government, has never been and never will be a libertarian party. It is a conservative party, believing that government should shore up middle-class moral standards. If gay people are to become a vital fixture in the Republican coalition, somebody will have to demonstrate that being gay is not an affront to middle-class morality, a case that should be possible to make.
 Tafel seems to sense this, and yet the large and maybe most revealing failing of "Party Crasher" is that he can't bring himself to endorse middle-class morality, or to defend its institutions. One section of his book is entitled "Understanding the Religious Right," but nowhere does he really try to understand the religious right, or its concerns about family breakdown. And in his section on the limits of moral relativism, he pats himself on the back for daring to say that it is immoral knowingly to infect another with the H.I.V. virus. This is the start of a morality, one supposes, but it's not a very ambitious start.
 Tafel seems unable to make comprehensive judgments about different life styles: to say that homosexuality is not a choice, but how you live is; to say that monogamy is better than promiscuity, and that anybody -- straight or gay -- who has more than five sex partners in a year is probably doing something sleazy. In short, Tafel has a developed set of arguments to champion the cause of economic liberty, but only apologetic, half-formed instincts when it comes to the moral demands of gay life. The person who can write compellingly about liberty and traditional morality will have laid the foundation for a principled gay Republicanism, ground that will be worth defending against homophobes and amoralists alike. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PARTY CRASHER (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); CONSERVATISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COLD WAR (78%); LITERATURE (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (64%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, DAVID; TAFEL, RICHARD RONALD REAGAN (79%); TRENT LOTT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



553 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1969 words

HEADLINE: The End of the World

BYLINE: By Tony Judt; Tony Judt is the Erich Maria Remarque Professor of European Studies at New York University.

 BODY:

THE FIRST WORLD WAR
By John Keegan.
Illustrated. 475 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $35. 
 It is not easy to convey to Americans, especially young Americans, the experience of World War I and its significance for our century. To be sure, the United States took part in that war and 114,000 American servicemen died -- twice the number killed in Vietnam. But more Americans were killed in World War II (292,000), and both figures pale beside the casualties of the Civil War (in excess of 600,000). American involvement in World War I lasted just 19 months; as a result, although the rate of American deaths per month was high, the experience was brief. And the war was fought a long way away, its echoes only belatedly reaching these shores.
 British military losses in World War II were comparable to those of the United States -- 265,000 servicemen and women killed. But they pale into relative statistical and human insignificance against the horrors of the earlier conflict. On a small hill above the northern French village of Thiepval, 20 miles south of Arras, there is a poignant memorial listing the names of the 70,000 British soldiers missing or unidentified following the battle there in the summer of 1916.
 Thiepval lies in the valley of the Somme River, athwart the trench lines of the Western Front. The countryside today is soft and green, the villages peaceful (and all reconstructed after 1918). But at the Battle of the Somme, which was just one of dozens of major and minor confrontations along this front during the four years of war, the British suffered 420,000 casualties, the French 195,000, the Germans 600,000. On the very first day of the Battle of the Somme, July 1, 1916, in just 24 hours, 20,000 British soldiers were killed and a further 40,000 wounded.
 This was, as John Keegan writes in "The First World War," "the greatest loss of life in British military history." Together with the third Battle of Ypres, in July 1917 (better known as the Battle of Passchendaele, from the name of the Belgian village where it took place), where 70,000 British soldiers were killed and 170,000 wounded, the Somme broke the back of the old British Army, and more besides: "The Somme marked the end of an age of vital optimism in British life that has never been recovered."
 But the British won World War I, a war fought on foreign territory in which fewer than 2,000 British civilians were killed. The significance of the war for the Germans, who lost it and with it some two million men, or for the French, upon whose land it was fought and who lost 1.7 million men in action, can only be imagined. In 1918 there were 630,000 war widows in France, and many tens of thousands of single women who would never marry -- they could still be seen as late as the 1960's, grown old, working at menial tasks in the public sector (clipping subway tickets, cleaning toilets), a gloomy reminder of the Great War, like the memorials to the dead on virtually every village square in the land.
 That is how World War I was experienced in western Europe. In eastern Europe the carnage was equally bad. In Serbia some 15 percent of the population was killed; the Russians lost at least as many men as the French (though a much smaller proportion of the population); and the Turkish losses were never even calculated, though there were certainly many hundreds of thousands. If the memory of World War I is less present in the east, it is only because the military (and especially civilian) losses there during World War II were even worse. But the war in eastern Europe was like previous wars there, with men and horses traversing vast landscapes -- it would have been recognizable to Napoleon in its scale and movement. In the west it had descended into 475 miles of trenches by November 1914 and remained there for nearly four years. That is why the classic image of World War I in Britain and the United States is of an infantry soldier living, or dying, in a muddy puddle, and why, when we think of the Great War, we think of the Western Front.
 John Keegan is a military historian, perhaps the best military historian of our day, and his new history of the war exemplifies his many strengths. It is elegantly written, clear, detailed and omniscient. As a narrative it is outstanding, telling the story of how the war began, how it was fought, why it was won by the Allies. Above all, Keegan conveys how it felt. To our eyes World War I can seem mysterious: Why did such a pointless war take place? How could such useless carnage have lasted so long? Why did men continue to serve, and fight, in such unspeakable conditions? Keegan never plays down these concerns, but he addresses them in terms contemporaries would have understood.
 The war began with a series of incidents and decisions, taken with little thought for their consequences; and no one, least of all the German generals responsible for urging it upon their rulers, expected it to take the form it did or last so long. In that sense, Germany's military leaders can hardly be held responsible for having begun what became the Great War, since they never intended it. Of the professional soldiers who fought its early battles, Keegan writes that they "died in their thousands at Ypres not because of an ideal of self-sacrifice but because it was expected of them and, in any case, there was no alternative."
 The conscripts, who by 1916 formed the overwhelming majority of the armies, fought and died with a resolution and courage hard to understand today; but by 1917, following Passchendaele and the disastrous French offensive ordered by Gen. Robert Nivelle in April of that year, they had reached their limit. Forty-nine French divisions mutinied that summer; they would continue to the end to defend their lines and their land, but they would resist further calls to attack. Something comparable happened to the Russian Army, too, and to the German Army following the unsuccessful spring offensive of 1918. The spirit, and the social order, of the European 19th century collapsed and died in the muddy catacombs of Flanders and the Argonne.
 Keegan explains better than most just why the Western Front was so murderous. In one sense it was an old-fashioned war: the Germans mobilized 715,000 horses, the Austrians 600,000. The French cavalry in 1914 wore breastplates similar to those it had worn at Waterloo a century before. Communications at sea were conducted by flag hoist, on land by messengers or hand signals. Nelson and Wellington would have recognized the scene.
 Weaponry, on the other hand, had been transformed. A handful of machine guns could wipe out a regiment in a matter of hours. The only way to win an engagement was to send infantrymen forward to attack other infantrymen in trenches a few hundred yards away, and the only way to insure that they would get there was to destroy the opposing trenches and their occupants. The British artillery lobbed three million shells into the German lines before the Somme offensive.
 But the artillerymen had no means of knowing whether they had achieved their objective, and the infantrymen who marched forward to occupy the shattered ground had no means of telling the artillery where to aim and when to fire. In World War I, in short, the generals had murderously destructive technology at their command but no way of deploying it effectively in attack. In earlier wars they could see the progress of their troops; in later wars they had instant communication by radio and telephone. Between 1914 and 1918 they were caught in a technological gap, and their men paid the price.
 TO understand is not to forgive. Keegan maintains a fine line between condemning general staffs for circumstances beyond their control and excusing them for their failure to understand and adapt to a new sort of war. Erich von Falkenhayn at Verdun and Douglas Haig at Ypres had no strategy beyond bleeding the enemy to death. On the subject of Haig, commander of the British armies at the Somme and Passchendaele and an object of execration for two generations of British survivors and commentators, Keegan is unambiguous: in his "public manner and private diaries no concern for human suffering was or is discernible." At the Somme "he had sent the flower of British youth to death or mutilation; at Passchendaele he had tipped the survivors into the slough of despond." The generals, like the politicians, were in a war they had not expected and did not understand; but the insouciant enthusiasm with which they sent hundreds of thousands of young men to their death retains its power to shock and nauseate a century later.
 Keegan's book has certain weaknesses. He is very good at explaining how the war began, and why it was in so many ways an accident -- only the Serbian nationalists who sought to dismember Hapsburg power in the Balkans and the German general staff, which had a "plan" to eliminate France and then smash the Russians, actively sought a conflagration. He rightly plays down the "war aims" of the great powers, which were cobbled into being in the course of the conflict but did not bring it about. Yet Keegan's account of how and why the war ended is weak, and this weakness reflects a larger failing. In a book written from a distinctively British angle, the emphasis is understandably on the war as something experienced and remembered by soldiers. In British memory, therefore, World War I was a victory bought in blood, a conflict whose successful outcome does not suffice to excuse its human cost. But its institutional and political significance was slight.
 In Continental Europe, by contrast, the legacy of the war went farther. The way in which the war was lost is what counted for German memory, which is why the political developments of 1918, shortchanged in this book, were so significant. In France the lessons of Verdun, the Nivelle offensive and the mutinies bore sour fruit in the depressed, morbid squabbling of interwar politics and the catastrophe of 1940. Over much of the rest of the Continent the war spelled the end of economic stability, social order, imperial authority. The history of World War I in the lands of central, eastern and southeastern Europe is inseparable from the collapse of the home front and a series of bloody revolutions and counterrevolutions.
 Keegan makes this point for the Russian case but neglects its application elsewhere. When Poles or Ukrainians later wrote or spoke of the war, they were remembering not just the experience of the set-piece battles in Galicia or East Prussia but also, and perhaps especially, the civil wars and vicious partisan fighting (and pogroms) that began before the armistice of November 1918 and lasted for years to come. In Turkey the war, the peace, the political revolution of Ataturk and the conflicts with Greece that followed in the immediate aftermath form a single whole. A history of the war that limits itself to the organized fighting on the main fronts and comes to an end in 1918 has a story to tell, certainly; but it is not the whole story.
 For, in the words of a wounded Indian soldier writing home from the Western Front in 1915, "This is not war, it is the ending of the world." And so it was. The world that died in the fields of Europe, along with more than nine million men in the course of just 52 months of fighting, was something beyond the sum of its stricken parts. The new world of Europe that would emerge from the experience was quite different: darker, more violent, more polarized, more cynical, less sure of itself and less given to confident assertions of its own superiority and prospects, except in a poisonous ideological form. In short, the European 20th century, whose memory and aftershocks are with us still.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (BORIS KULIKOV)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FIRST WORLD WAR, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); FRANCE (90%); VIET NAM (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); FRANCE (90%); VIET NAM (72%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS WORLD WAR I (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HISTORY (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); LITERATURE (74%); 

PERSON: JUDT, TONY; KEEGAN, JOHN JOHN KEEGAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



554 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Typical Americans

BYLINE: By Jean Thompson; Jean Thompson's most recent book is "Who Do You Love," a collection of short stories.

 BODY:

WHO'S IRISH?
Stories.
By Gish Jen.
208 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $22. 
 IF the American immigrant experience is most often construed as a process of merging and gradual assimilation, like traffic on a freeway, then Gish Jen's version resembles a busy intersection with everybody laying on the horn. Her novels, "Typical American" and "Mona in the Promised Land," and now the stories of "Who's Irish?," portray cultures in splendid confusion and outright collision. There is no monolithic mainstream here but rather a conglomeration of Others, a dynamic, free-for-all, often loopy national motorcade.
 Jen mines this material for equal measures of pathos and wry fun. She has a clear-eyed affection for people who struggle to find their places in the world. Readers of the novels will re-encounter, in two of the eight stories in "Who's Irish?," the Changs -- the resolutely non-American father, aggravated mother and perceptive daughters. For Ralph and Helen, the older generation, the ancestral homeland is a fading memory, but Ralph retains an indelible, stubborn sense of separation that resists any tempering by the melting pot. Helen is more adaptable: "She had opinions about how downtown should be zoned; she could pump her own gas and check her own oil." The narrator here is Callie, the older and more anxious girl. She and her sister, Mona, act as mediators and witnesses when wars erupt between their parents, and between Ralph and America in general.
 In "The Water Faucet Vision" the conflict is marital. Ralph and Helen argue in Shanghainese, a dialect the girls don't speak, and in the universal language of throwing things. Callie, "the kind of girl who grows morbid in Catholic school," practices ostentatious piety and prays for miracles of reconciliation. Later Helen leaps out a second-story window, shocking everyone with the sudden enormity of events.
 "In the American Society" chronicles Ralph's misadventures as the obstinately hapless owner of a pancake house. The undocumented Chinese immigrants he hires clash with the Latino cook. The family's country club application is given the same politely dismissive treatment afforded those of African-Americans. And Ralph is badgered by a drunken party guest who keeps demanding, aptly enough in this maze of fractured identities, "Who are you?" Throughout it all, Ralph maintains a dignity borne of belligerent incomprehension. "Your father doesn't believe in joining the American society," Helen explains. "He wants to have his own society."
 Just as "Mona in the Promised Land" advanced the saga from one generation to the next, "Who's Irish?" moves beyond the Changs to other characters, although family remains a unifying theme. In the title story a Chinese grandmother attributes her granddaughter's misbehavior to the Irish side of her parentage. The ensuing battles over how, or even if, to discipline the child divide along generational rather than ethnic boundaries. Ultimately the two grandmothers, Chinese and Irish, align themselves, a reconstituted family unit that achieves a harmony of nations on a small, human scale.
 Other stories take up the diverse paths followed by the children of immigrants, hypersuccessful bourgeois or rebels, either "full of Asian consciousness" or, like one enigmatic soul, a serious North Woods type who eschews electricity. "Duncan in China," one of the best and richest offerings, sends this new generation back to China in search of a now-distant heritage. Duncan is a failure in America; he dreams of "the China of the scholar-officials, the China of ineffable nobility and restraint." Predictably, he finds nothing of the sort. The new China is a place of physical discomforts and spiritual and social mysteries, where every appearance is misleading. Duncan's jovial colleague insults him with a smile. The lovable students in his English class may be spies. The woman Duncan falls in love with has other plans for him.
 Duncan's cousin, impoverished and physically broken by the Cultural Revolution, is both pathetic and gratingly importuning. Family, in this case, provides only a disturbing image of a life Duncan himself might have lived. This is a splendid story, encompassing yearning, humor and tragedy.
 The structure of "Who's Irish?" is eccentric, if we define a story as a piece of prose of some predetermined length. There are brief narratives and expansive ones, a sense of material struggling to find its proper form, sketches that have grown or novels that have been recast or perhaps never made it off the ground. If we dismiss length as an arbitrary consideration, we still expect from stories focus, balance, momentum and the satisfaction of a tale told both completely and economically.
 "House, House, Home," which makes up a third of the book, reads more like a compressed but low-key novel. Chinese-American Pammie marries her art history professor, the maddeningly self-absorbed Sven. Although the writing is nothing if not witty, the story bogs down in the lengthy intellectual and emotional skirmishes that attend the inevitable breakup of the marriage. ("How she had been wifed, how she had been fetishized, how she had been viewed as Orientalia.")
 When the stories better fit inside their skins, the results are inspired. "Birthmates" (included in the recent, exhausting volume "The Best American Short Stories of the Century") tells of Art Woo, a struggling businessman. His wife has left him after the loss of their unborn child. He's bedeviled by a wisecracking trade rival who speaks a dialect Art calls Mainstreamese. By mistake Art books himself into a welfare hotel on a business trip; the resulting misadventures are ironic and genuinely mournful. The story moves fluidly between action and thought, building a structure that conveys all the hopefulness and longing of Art's life.
 Jen's gift is for comedy that resonates, and sadnesses that arise with perfect timing from absurdities. Her subject matter is so appealing, it almost obscures the power and suppleness of her language. "Who's Irish?," at its considerable best, finds words for all the high and low notes of the raucous American anthem.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (ERIN JENSEN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WHO'S IRISH?: STORIES (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ZONING (77%); LITERATURE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); GRANDPARENTS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: THOMPSON, JEAN; JEN, GISH GISH JEN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



555 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 23; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Company Woman

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle; Louis Uchitelle covers economics for The Times.

 BODY:

NEW WORLD, NEW RULES
The Changing Role of the American Corporation.
By Marina v. N. Whitman.
261 pp. Boston:
Harvard Business School Press. $29.95. 
 How can anyone complain about corporate practices when the economy seems to be working so well? Instead of criticism, the American model for doing business is offered to the world as the template for national prosperity. Apply the template, Europe and Asia are told, and you will prosper, too.
 Large corporations, according to the American model, should no longer be the chief source of social benefits. And in the United States they no longer are. Job security, community loyalty, raises, health insurance, pensions -- all these are much more optional now. Freed of such costly burdens, companies see themselves as more successful in the intensely competitive global marketplace.
 For better or worse, companies everywhere are applying this template. Prosperity, of course, is the chief prod. Success is convincing, and this is reflected in the mainstream literature on corporate behavior, once so devoted to extolling the Japanese way. Certainly Marina v. N. Whitman, a professor of business administration and public policy at the University of Michigan, embraces the American model in "New World, New Rules," which barely mentions Japan, now so mired in recession.
 "Nations on every continent and at every level of development have paid us the ultimate compliment of imitation," she writes. "They emulate our form of economic organization in hopes of achieving the economic riches that Americans enjoy and take for granted."
 Whitman is understandably partisan. She was an economist in the Nixon Administration and a vice president and chief economist at General Motors from 1979 to 1992, when the nation's giant corporations were evolving into their current more global, less patriarchal form. She is a friend and colleague of the politicians and executives who preach the wonders of the American model.
 Perhaps that is why she shares with her readers almost none of what she witnessed at G.M. or felt in those stressful years. At a farewell party early in her tenure, she praised a departing executive for his outstanding contribution to the company, only to be criticized by her superiors for praising someone "who had demonstrated his disloyalty by leaving" the company. "By the time I left G.M. a decade later," she writes, "we were all gaining weight attending a constant series of farewell parties for departing colleagues," all encouraged by G.M. to get out.
 That is about as personal as Whitman gets. Absent are the anecdotes, the feelings, the judgments shaped by her own experience that could have lifted "New World, New Rules" to the level of original, significant history. What she offers instead is first-class Cliffs Notes: abstract, dry, nonjudgmental, textbook-dull, but fairly scrupulous in listing the standard pros and cons of the market-driven American model, with its aversion to regulation.
 There are sections, for example, praising workplace changes in which middle managers have disappeared and workers operate in self-motivated teams. What is missing is the more troubling observation offered lately by people like the New York University sociologist Richard Sennett, who argues that the teams, far from empowering workers, alienate and control them.
 Whitman is at her best in recognizing that the American model will survive as a beacon only if it weathers the inevitable next economic downturn. Corporate America, not government, she argues, must provide the social programs that can protect workers in harder times. And she lists such ideas as job training, portable pensions and temporary work to ease the transition from one job to the next.
 She also insists that income inequality must not widen in the next downturn, exacerbating social tensions. The world will prosper only if the American model endures, she asserts. But in her guarded prose, she never manages to convince a reader that she herself believes it will, in fact, endure. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NEW WORLD, NEW RULES (BOOK)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); LITERATURE (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; WHITMAN, MARINA V N

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



556 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 30; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 8312 words

HEADLINE: Eclipsed

BYLINE: By Bill Keller; Bill Keller is the managing editor of The Times. He would like to acknowledge the assistance of Maxim Tarasenko, a young Russian space expert, who was killed by a hit-and-run driver on May 14.

 BODY:
If you can't get to the moon, Baikonur is not a bad approximation. The rocket range that bills itself as "the Biggest Cosmodrome in the World" is a bleak expanse of pitted flatlands, unbearably cold except when it is unbearably hot and impossibly remote.
The features that make it a wretched place for humans were all points in its favor when Baikonur was chosen as the main testing facility for Russia's missiles and space rockets. It is possible to fire a test rocket 5,000 miles without landing in China or Turkey or Japan and with little danger of bombarding a major city. The skies are usually clear. The terrain is ideal for retrieving misfires. And there is no one around to snoop. 
 In the depths of the cold war, battalions of engineers, scientists and generals converged here to astonish the world. It was from Baikonur, in the span of 43 months, that the Soviets launched the first satellite, the first dog, the first rocket to hit the moon and the first man in space.
When I visited Baikonur this spring, it took a constant effort to recall that this barren sweep of steppe had been a front in one of the greatest battles in the history of the cold war -- indeed, of nationalist-inspired adventure. Today on the wind-swept test range, whole blocks of apartment buildings sit deserted. The network of launching stations that once blasted 150 civilian rockets into space each year now handles only 20 or 30. In fact, the cosmodrome is not even in Russia anymore; thanks to the dissolution of the Soviet Union, it is now part of Kazakhstan, a sovereign country that suffers the Russian presence somewhat grumpily.
Bundled against a searing wind, I rode with Russian escorts past banks of tracking radar and rusting tanks of liquid oxygen and kerosene to a destination now usually closed to outsiders -- Area 110, which was built to be the scene of the greatest Soviet space triumph, the launching of a giant booster rocket that would deliver the first man to the moon.
For an hour, my companions and I ambled about the long-abandoned apparatus, circling the great flame pits and the metal tracks on which the servicing tower was slowly wheeled into place for launches. Sagebrush poked through cracks in the concrete. The old transporter that took the rockets to their pad sat like an upended metal cockroach. Surveying the ruin, the Russians joked that it was as if aliens had landed, built a civilization and then suddenly flown away.
On a lark, we huffed up the stairs of the old service tower and stood on a platform 150 feet above the launch pad.
"There you are," said Sergei Solovyov, the deputy director responsible for this artifact, saluting the view with a sardonic flourish. "It's like visiting the pyramids of Egypt."
On July 20, 1969, 30 years ago next month, Apollo 11 set down in the Sea of Tranquillity. The story of how the Americans won the moon race is known to earthlings around the globe. The story of how the Russians lost -- and how close they came -- has remained well buried in the wreckage of the Soviet experiment.
The secrecy enveloping the Soviet space program in its time was pathological. The identities of the chief rocket designers were literally state secrets. The Soviets worked in isolated communities, their scientific works were unpublished, their successes were anonymous, their failures were covered up. That the Soviet Union was striving to land men on the moon was not only withheld from the public but also officially, categorically denied. And when the Russian moon program was finally abandoned, the Kremlin spent considerable effort to expunge it from history.
In the past decade, however, the tale has leaked up from its grave. A Government-sanctioned version of the Soviet moon project was published in 1989. Since then, several space veterans have picked at the official account in memoirs of their experiences. Earlier this year, when I went to interview the octogenarian survivors of the Soviet moon mission, it was like sitting in on an argument that had suddenly been resumed after a 30-year interruption, an outpouring of ancient but vivid memories colored by some score settling and self-vindication. On the American side, where the Soviet moon effort was a topic of copious spycraft and speculation, the C.I.A. has gradually declassified many secret satellite photographs and intelligence reports from the period.
From all of this, we learn that the Russians entered the moon race grudgingly, that many Russian rocket makers doubted the race was winnable, or even worth winning -- what was this contest, anyway, but a monstrously expensive exercise in political vanity? We also learn that in this competition the Soviets were as much at war with themselves as with us. Most of all, we learn that despite it all, they gave us a race, a real race.
On April 12, 1961, John F. Kennedy received the news that the Soviet Union had sent the first human into orbit around the earth. The ferociously competitive young President directed his Vice President, Lyndon Johnson, to survey expert opinion and report back what America could do to regain its plummeting prestige.
"Do we have a chance of beating the Soviets by putting a laboratory in space, or by a trip around the moon, or by a rocket to land on the moon, or by a rocket to go to the moon and back with a man?" Kennedy asked in a memo to the Vice President. "Is there any other space program which promises dramatic results in which we could win?"
Wernher von Braun, the German rocket inventor who joined the American effort after World War II, told the Vice President that the Americans had "a sporting chance" of flying men around the moon first, but that he felt the best bet was to try a manned moon landing. Such a feat would require a monster rocket, 10 to 15 times as large as the one that had lofted the cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin into orbit. The U.S. Air Force had done considerable work on such a rocket.
On May 25, Kennedy told Congress that we were going to the moon, that American stature depended on it. In the years to come, supporters of the space venture would articulate a variety of justifications for Kennedy's undertaking: the romantic notion of manifest destiny, the scientific yearning for knowledge, the stimulation of new technology, even delusional schemes to create a military outpost on the moon. But the first and fundamental reason the Americans decided to go to the moon was simple: we thought we could get there first.
The moon was not on the Soviet agenda, but it did tantalize the one man responsible for the apparent Soviet dominance in space: Sergei Pavlovich Korolev. Korolev (pronounced kor-ul-YOV) was the most influential of the chief designers who presided over Soviet aerospace. His rocket-design campus, based at a former artillery factory outside Moscow, had given the world Sputnik and the first man in space, not to mention the first intercontinental ballistic missile.
Long before Kennedy's speech, Korolev had set his sights on the moon -- not as a geopolitical prize, or even as a destination, really, but as a platform for more ambitious missions to the planets beyond. Already he had launched the first rocket to hit the moon; it smashed into the surface with a cargo of Soviet souvenir dog tags, thus setting a record for cosmic tackiness that would stand until 1971, when Alan Shepard of Apollo 14 hit golf balls across the lunar fairway. Another of Korolev's spacecraft had sent back the first photographs of the dark side of the moon.
Korolev had few illusions about the system he served. When he was 31 and a promising engineer at a rocket-design institute, Stalin's goons knocked at his door early one morning and took him away from his wife and sleeping 3-year-old daughter. A victim of the Soviet leader's systematic purge of the intelligentsia, Korolev was confronted with testimony extracted from three colleagues and beaten until he confessed to preposterous charges that he had conspired in aid of German rocket designers. He was cast into the lowest circle of Stalin's hell, the frozen pit mines of Kolyma, where he felled trees and pushed wheelbarrows in the excruciating cold. He had lost his teeth and damaged his heart by the time, a year later, he was summoned to less brutal custody -- a prison aerospace-design facility run by the secret police. For another six years, Korolev helped design aircraft and rockets for the war effort while confined with other purged intellectuals.
Soviets of Korolev's generation tend to minimize the psychological impact of Stalin's terror; with the arrest of something like five million of the country's brightest in just one spasm of paranoia in 1937 and 1938, unjust persecution hardly qualified as an exceptional experience. "We were absolutely indifferent to the camps," insisted Boris Raushenbakh, one of many rocket makers who, like Korolev, survived the hardships of forced labor. "They were like natural events." Korolev's daughter, Natalya, the keeper of a trove of her father's memorabilia, said he refused ever to talk of his experiences as a prisoner.
Yet there were aspects of Korolev that were, at the least, reinforced by his brush with the brutality of the Soviet state. Though he would later mouth the platitudes of the Communist Party, friends say he did so without much pretense of conviction. Though he gave his country a formidable arsenal, his real allegiance seemed always to be to a less nationalistic dream, humankind's dominion in space. And he was unmistakably blessed with some of the skills that this horrid system bestowed on many of its citizens -- including a capacity to swallow suffering and a gift for wily improvisation.
After the war, Korolev was absolved of his charges, commissioned a colonel and sent with a military delegation to Germany to mine whatever records of the German weapons program had not already been snatched up by the Americans. They brought back the blueprints of the German V-2 missile, which under Korolev's guidance evolved into a family of Soviet rockets so successful that they are still in use today.
By 1961, when the moon race began, Korolev dominated the landscape of Soviet rocketry. James Harford, whose biography of Korolev, the first in English, was published in 1997, ranks Korolev ahead of von Braun among the greats of space, not just for the litany of his space spectaculars but also because in a short life he excelled across the entire range of space achievement.
Korolev was less a technical wizard than a visionary and a master director -- a bit of H.G. Wells, a lot of Orson Welles. He had the kind of bluff, rules-be-damned charisma that stands out in a nation of bureaucrats. Pictures (made public, of course, only after his death) show a broad-shouldered, bull-necked, square-faced man with riveting black eyes. Sometimes he is shown tieless, sleeves rolled up, with a rakish fedora shading his brow. His salesman's charm was irresistible -- to the rocket makers he urged and bullied through 16-hour days, to an array of women and to the political leaders on whom his program depended.
In his memoirs, the Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev recalls the rocket chief's visit to the ruling Politburo shortly after Stalin's death. The party luminaries gathered and stared in disbelief as Korolev displayed his rocket models and explained how the wingless, cigar-shaped contraptions could reach America -- or Mars. "I don't want to exaggerate, but I'd say we gawked at what he showed us as if we were a bunch of sheep seeing a new gate for the first time." Khrushchev became a regular visitor to the rocket-design bureaus, where he inspected each new device with childish delight.
In 1964, Korolev would persuade the Kremlin to let him draft a trustworthy newspaper reporter and a television newscaster into his corps of cosmonauts, in hopes that the ensuing publicity would inspire greater support for space exploration. This was decades before NASA realized the public-relations value of sending schoolteachers and senators into space.
"Actually, he wanted to send a poet, a Lermontov, but that was out of the question," recalled Yaroslav Golovanov, the newspaper correspondent who trained for a spaceflight but never made it.
On Dec. 5, 1962, the C.I.A. completed its top-secret annual assessment of the Soviet space program. The agency's verdict was that an American victory was no sure thing. "Given their ability to concentrate human and material resources on priority objectives," the agency contended, "we estimate that with a strong national effort the Soviets could accomplish a manned lunar landing in the period 1967 to 1969."
The American view of the Soviet Union at the time was one of wonder and suspicion. Kennedy had campaigned against Richard Nixon with the claim that the Soviets enjoyed a menacing lead in nuclear warheads. (One missile-gap alarmist put the Soviet advantage at 3,000 weapons.) After Sputnik, American schoolchildren were drilled for the possibility of nuclear attack, and the backyard bomb shelter became a cottage industry.
In hindsight it is clear that the Soviet Union was actually a Wizard of Oz state, straining to maintain its superpower status. At the time of Kennedy's challenge, the country was 15 years past a war that killed 27 million of its people, eight years past the vicious rule of Stalin. Its economy was a clumsy, musclebound extension of the state bureaucracy. It had no nimble private industrial base -- no General Electrics, no Lockheeds, no Boeings.
Moreover, by at least the end of 1961, satellite intelligence had shown Kennedy that the missile gap was, in fact, very much in America's favor. The C.I.A.'s most generous estimate was that the Soviets had a mere 25 missiles capable of reaching American soil -- Russian experts today put the number as low as 4 -- and they required so long to be fueled that they could be caught on the ground if America struck first.
All of this Khrushchev knew, and he waged an effective public campaign of bluster and bravado to prevent the world from seeing the little man behind the curtain. When Kennedy, a month after his space challenge, proposed to collaborate with the Russians on a lunar venture, Khrushchev declined. Loath as he might have been to enter into a costly moon race, he did not want to be seen as America's junior partner in the venture -- and he did not want Americans to see how much the Soviet image was built on a bluff.
"My father rejected it because, he told me, 'If we will try to work together then they will know how weak we are, that we have no missiles,"' said Sergei Khrushchev, who has been the main curator of his father's records and memoirs.
Like Khrushchev, Soviet space scientists approached Kennedy's moon challenge warily. What he proposed would demand an effort, the scale and expense of which was far beyond anything Korolev had undertaken to date.
"Our first thought," said Boris Chertok, the brilliant engineer who designed most of Korolev's guidance systems, "was, Is this a bluff, or is he serious? Our impression was it was not a bluff. The feeling within the engineering community was that it was realistic and could be done. And it gave us a sense of satisfaction, because we were sure it would force our leadership to pay more attention to the Soviet space program."
Within the secret network of scientists and engineers, there was at first no consensus that it made sense to rise to the American challenge. Some engineers, like Boris Raushenbakh and Konstantin Feoktistov, say they argued at the time that the Soviets could not match America in a spendathon and should instead build an orbiting space station, which played to their strengths and would create an impressive and lasting redoubt in space. Others, especially the scientists, argued for focusing on unmanned space exploration, which would be cheaper and less risky.
Korolev, however, embraced Kennedy's challenge as a justification for his own dream of manned space travel and rallied the rocket makers around him. Look what we have already accomplished against long odds, he exhorted. Think how we could dazzle the world.
"Later, space would become just a job," said Raushenbakh, who, like most of the engineers, was soon won over. "In that first decade, it was a romance."
Korolev faced more serious resistance from the political leaders, and especially the generals, who were alarmed by America's flourishing arsenal.
Throughout the attempt to land Soviets on the moon, the space program would compete for money with an array of military initiatives. Precise comparisons are almost impossible because the systems were so utterly different, but in the end the Soviets would spend no more than half of the $25 billion America invested in the Apollo program, and the fraction may have been much smaller.
The battle for time was even more taxing than the battle for money. Unlike the United States, whose civilian space program was largely independent of the military, the Soviet Union employed the same engineers, factories and launching pads for both the arms race and the space race. Soviet engineers were simultaneously laboring to match the Americans in intercontinental ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, antimissile defense weapons, bombers and fighter planes, plus brainstorming a variety of more outlandish ventures, like an orbiting military space station.
"We could only undertake a lunar program as a sideline," said Chertok, the guidance engineer. "Not one of us was freed of our military responsibilities. The problem was not only the burden on the work force and the production facilities, but on the brains as well."
Moreover, since Soviet industry was organized on the company-town model, with every public service an outgrowth of the factory, Korolev was in effect the ward heeler for the little town called Podlipki on the edge of Moscow where his work force lived.
"Unlike von Braun and NASA, Korolev had to worry about the building of this whole municipality, about kindergartens and schools and hospitals and health care for his employees," Chertok said when I visited him at Podlipki, which was recently renamed Korolev. "He had to lobby the Government to make sure the food allotments to his workers were up to Moscow standards."
Korolev pleaded and badgered and connived to keep the program moving. To win over the ruble-conscious political leaders, Korolev low-balled his estimates of what a moon program would cost. To win over the military, he promised that his moon program would deliver an array of strategic advantages.
"Korolev was always doing his space work on the backs of the military," recalled Gen. Kerim Kerimov, who was the military's watchdog over Korolev. "When the military asked for a rocket to send up spy satellites, which required a lift of three tons, Korolev made a rocket capable of lifting seven tons and sent Gagarin."
The military complained constantly to Dmitri Ustinov, the Minister of Armaments, but the powerful Ustinov had been an early patron of Korolev.
"Ustinov would sigh and say, 'You are probably right, we will take measures,"' Kerimov chuckled. "But he loved Korolev."
When it came to his big moon rocket, which was called the N-1, Korolev again rolled the military. Boris Dorofeyev, who supervised the design of the rocket, said the early proposals sent to the Kremlin billed the N-1 as a vehicle for lofting military spy satellites, for carrying multiple warheads around the globe, even for putting a nuclear battle station into orbit.
"There was some vague wording about 'investigation of the moon and planets,' but there was not a word about landing a man on the moon," Dorofeyev told me over his dining-room table in Podlipki.
As the project evolved, and the military realized that the slow-fueling rocket would be a sitting duck on a launch pad, the putative military uses dropped off one by one, until the N-1 no longer pretended to be anything but the vehicle to get a Russian to the moon.
Reluctant as Khrushchev was to enter into another spending duel with the United States, he was also not prepared to lose. In February 1962, Khrushchev invited the rocket designers to his country retreat in the Crimea, and after a day of feasting and conversation authorized the designers to proceed with their moon rocket. The commitment was a little vague, and it would take another two years of cajoling to get it into bankable form.
Finally, in 1964, with Khrushchev on the verge of being ousted from power, Korolev drafted a letter to the party's second in command, Leonid Brezhnev. The document, published only last year, was a brazen appeal. In it, Korolev claimed that the American program, with its powerful Saturn rocket, had leapt so far ahead that the Americans stood a good chance of landing on the moon as early as 1967, in time to spoil the 50th anniversary of the Russian revolution.
That somewhat exaggerated warning seemed to get the Kremlin's attention. In August 1964, the party issued a decree formally establishing the goal of sending a man to the moon. It was somewhat more equivocal than Kennedy's -- and it was secret -- but the Soviet rocket makers now felt they were fully in the game.
"At that time, it still seemed possible," Chertok said. "We thought we could be the first to circumnavigate the moon, and that we could at least hold our own in the race for a lunar landing."
In a race that would last 98 months, from Kennedy's speech to Armstrong's landing, the Soviet Union was 39 months behind. Korolev was starting late. But he was wasting no time. By October 1964, an American Corona spy satellite passing over Baikonur photographed a huge hangar and the first excavations of a large, new launch pad. For the Americans, it was the strongest evidence yet that the Soviets had decided to take on J.F.K. "They knew then," said Charles P. Vick, an expert in the Russian space program, "that something big was going on."
Getting there was not the challenge of a lunar expedition. Both sides had shown they could slam a rocket into the moon. The problem was getting back. In order to make a round trip, you have to lug the spacecraft in which a crew would orbit the moon, a vehicle for descending to the surface, the fuel to get off the moon and sufficient shielding to protect the passengers when they re-enter the earth's atmosphere. Throw in a lunar rover and this is heavy freight indeed, on the order of 100 tons. There were many other complications -- the intricate choreography of a rendezvous in lunar orbit, for example -- but the single biggest hurdle was the need for that monster rocket.
To complicate matters, the Soviets needed a rocket with extra lift to compensate for their geographic disadvantage. The gateway to lunar orbit is through the Southern Hemisphere. Because the Soviet Union sits so far north on the globe -- and because Korolev and company were reluctant to risk firing rockets south across China -- they launched on a northern trajectory, which required them to shimmy from one earth orbit to another for the best access to the moon.
And to make the challenge even more daunting, the Soviets were compelled to mount this effort not with a unified team of scientists and designers but with a rocket industry riven by divisions personal, professional and bureaucratic.
Thanks to the kind of wasteful whimsy that shaped much of the Soviet economy, aerospace was split into parallel industrial complexes. After World War II, the Soviets at first thought to put rockets into the Aviation Ministry. But the Aviation Minister of the time sneered at rocketry as an unfit match for the manly business of piloting airplanes. The shrewder Dmitri Ustinov, by now Stalin's Minister of Defense, recognized the potential of missiles and adopted them into his branch of the Government -- as artillery. Since Aviation had no interest in sharing with Artillery, Defense built its own duplicate network of aerospace contractors and subcontractors: for engines, guidance systems, fuels.
The situation was thus ripe for conflicts, the most fateful of which developed between Korolev and the Soviet Union's leading maker of big rocket engines, Valentin Glushko.
Glushko had preceded Korolev into the labor camps, and according to documents published last year, Korolev knew that Glushko was one of the three colleagues who had given testimony against him -- testimony extracted by torture, no doubt, but perhaps not the foundation of a trusting friendship. Glushko, for his part, had never quite got over the fact that during their years together in the forced-labor aerospace facilities, he had outranked Korolev in the prison pecking order. The engine maker was a proud and prickly character, with sufficient status in the Balkanized world of Russian rocketry that he could say no, even to Korolev.
By the beginning of the 60's, Glushko was in great demand for military projects. He had developed a series of ingenious engines based on a storable propellant that could sit for months in a silo and fire in short order. This fuel solved the sitting-duck problem of Soviet nuclear missiles, but it had a serious defect for a rocket intended to carry human cargo. The fuel was powerfully toxic and in an accident would be likely to spray the cosmonauts and anyone nearby with lethal fumes. Korolev pressed Glushko to come up with a more powerful engine based on a safer formula of kerosene and liquid oxygen. The headstrong rocket maker refused. Thus Korolev began his most ambitious undertaking without the services of the country's top engine maker.
Korolev turned to an aircraft-engine designer, who did not have the experience or facilities to build a giant engine. While the engine the designer came up with was a masterpiece of engineering -- so reliable that two American companies now import it -- it was also so small that it required a ring of 30 of them to lift the N-1 moon rocket.
No one, before or since, has built a rocket with more than 10 engines. For Korolev's rocket to succeed, it would have to depend on highly sophisticated electronic choreography. The engine vibrations had to be synchronized to prevent catastrophic fits of shaking. Moreover, the designers had to assure that if one engine in the circle failed, its opposite number would switch off to keep the thrust balanced and prevent the rocket from tilting to the side. This would have been a lot to ask of engineers anywhere, but the Soviet Union was famously weak in the kind of miniature electronics required.
Roald Sagdeev, a physicist who for a time ran the Soviet Space Research Institute, said microelectronics never had the dazzle it took to capture the interest of the political leaders, who were, in effect, the C.E.O.'s of all Soviet industry.
"Under the czars, the bells always had to be big," said Sagdeev, who now teaches at the University of Maryland. "The same thing with the Politburo. They loved the big pieces of hardware. Tiny things like small electronic brains -- who would pay attention to that?"
Right up to the finish line, the Soviets toyed with a variety of scenarios for reaching the moon, but by late 1964, Korolev had settled on an approach not unlike the one chosen by the Americans -- a launch into earth orbit, then a second leap into lunar orbit, from which a module would descend to the lunar surface. While the American module was equipped for two men, the Soviet version would have deposited a single cosmonaut on the surface. To further cut the weight, there would be no air lock connecting the lunar orbiter to the landing craft -- the cosmonaut would spacewalk from one vehicle to the other. Later, the Soviet scheme was refined to include an advance ship, an unmanned moon flight that would drop off a spare escape module, in case the cosmonaut's landing craft failed to take off.
While the two countries vied to perfect their powerful rockets, they competed simultaneously to develop spacecraft for a moon voyage -- vehicles that could endure for days, carry a crew of astronauts, navigate through space, dock in orbit. Throughout the early 60's, Korolev's designers labored on a family of spacecraft: the Vostok, which took Yuri Gagarin into space, a clunky upgrade called the Voskhod and the more elaborate, two-compartment Soyuz. Repeatedly they beat the Americans by coming up with new space maneuvers.
The Soviets embellished their technical feats with propaganda flourishes, like sending the first woman into space (proof that the Communist utopia had achieved equality of the sexes!). And they were not beyond a little sleight of hand. In August 1962, for example, the Soviets became the first nation to send up two manned space capsules at the same time. They fired one Vostok into orbit, and then, when it sailed over Baikonur a day later, they launched a second into orbit alongside it. The two capsules cruised past American tracking stations about three miles apart, creating the impression that the Soviets had somehow maneuvered them together. According to Vasily Mishin, Korolev's deputy, the Soviets were happy to help the Americans fool themselves.
The pressure of the space race sometimes drove the Soviets to push their luck. In 1964, knowing the Americans were on the verge of sending up a spacecraft with two astronauts, Khrushchev called Korolev and -- according to Mishin -- demanded the launch of a vehicle with three cosmonauts as quickly as possible.
Since the Voskhod spacecraft they were testing was too small to fit such a crew in full regalia, the Soviets decided to launch the cosmonauts without space suits -- and without ejection seats.
"Was it risky?" Mishin said to James Harford. "Of course it was. For approximately 20 seconds of flight prior to insertion into orbit, the crew did not have any means of escape in the event of an emergency." In October, the three unprotected cosmonauts -- including Konstantin Feoktistov, who helped design the cramped vehicle -- succeeded in making 16 orbits of the earth, beating the American two-man flight handily.
In the next Voskhod flight, five months later, Aleksei Leonov had a more gut-wrenching experience while racing to beat the Americans in the first spacewalk. The space suit for the first extravehicular adventure was a rush job; the only time the empty suit was sent into space for quality testing, the delivery vehicle self-destructed. Then an unmanned Voskhod test flight, intended to gather crucial data for the humans to follow, exploded. With only one Voskhod left in the hangar, Korolev and his cosmonauts decided to chance a manned flight anyway, and it was nearly a calamity. The moment Leonov emerged from the capsule into the great vacuum of space, his soft suit ballooned until he resembled the Pillsbury Doughboy. He discovered he could not manipulate the gloves or bend his legs, and his inflated suit would not fit back through the hatch. At the risk of giving himself a lethal case of the bends, he depressurized his suit enough to slither back inside.
Then, on the return trip, the automatic re-entry system failed, requiring Leonov and his partner to steer in manually. Afraid of landing in a city's electrical lines or, worse, in China, they aimed for the Ural Mountains, where they landed wedged between two fir trees in deep snow, and waited overnight for a rescue. Naturally, none of the mishaps were made public for a quarter of a century. The first spacewalk was hailed as yet another advance on the Americans.
Leonov, now a glad-handing executive at one of Moscow's private banks, shrugs off the danger. "We went into it with our eyes open. My job was test pilot, after all. And extreme caution would have meant we lost the race."
As Korolev's moon program gained traction in 1965, he had to worry not only about the Americans -- whose big rocket, the Saturn, was already showing promise in suborbital flights -- but also about rival designers eager for a piece of the action.
The most notable of these was Vladimir Chelomei, who ran a design bureau under the Aviation Ministry specializing in cruise missiles. A possessive and ill-tempered technical wizard, Chelomei spent most of his life making missiles for the military and thus lived and died in an even tighter shroud of secrecy than Korolev.
In March, I negotiated a corkscrew of back roads through the remaining winter snow and slop outside Moscow to visit the cruise-missile factory where Chelomei presided, and to hear his side of the story from one of his top designers, Vladimir Polyachenko.
Polyachenko took me to an outlying guest house and unpacked a sheaf of tidy, handwritten notes, which he had copied for the occasion from historical documents in the factory archive. ("These are not classified," he explained, when a Russian space expert accompanying me expressed his excitement at these documents. "They are just not available.")
Over the course of two hours, my host made a strong case that Chelomei's plan for the moon was, in fact, technically superior to Korolev's. This is not a viewpoint that has been argued much, in part because Korolev's heirs are the ones writing memoirs. I don't claim to be qualified to judge, but by the time Polyachenko was done, I wondered if the Soviets, charmed by Korolev, had not bet on the wrong genius.
Within the design fraternity, Chelomei was outspokenly contemptuous of Korolev's 30-engine moon rocket. A specialist in dynamics, he contended that it was nearly impossible to synchronize the vibrations of so many engines. But since Korolev had locked up the lunar-landing franchise, Chelomei concocted an alternative proposal to fly men around the moon. It involved using a large, nearly perfected rocket called the Proton, based on Glushko's toxic-fueled engines, to launch a great vehicle on a circumlunar trajectory.
In late 1965, an expert commission endorsed the scheme, with 47 scientists and engineers supporting it and only three, all from Korolev's shop, dissenting.
"We thought going around the moon was more realistic, given the short time," Polyachenko said. "We believed a lunar flyby was easier to achieve and would help solve the harder problem of landing on the moon."
Chelomei was not a complete illiterate in the political arts. He had the wit to hire Khrushchev's son, Sergei, as a rocket engineer. But he was no match for the manipulative wile of Korolev.
A month after the report came out, Korolev held a meeting at his headquarters in Podlipki and unveiled his latest scheme. Now Korolev wanted to expand his program to include a flight around the moon -- using a hybrid of Chelomei's booster and his own N-1, with his own spacecraft mounted on top. Chelomei, in effect, would provide the truck that would deliver Korolev's payload around the moon. In late 1965, this plan was added to Korolev's mandate, and Chelomei -- though he continued to promote his rocket for lunar flights -- was essentially out of the moon business.
In co-opting his rival, though, Korolev had spread himself even thinner. "These two programs consumed a lot of resources and effort, and they were not linked technologically," said Chertok, the engineer, who at 87 is writing about this period for the fourth volume of his memoirs. "They had nothing in common except one stage of the rocket -- different spaceships, different guidance systems, different engines and so on. So we were chasing two rabbits."
Within the Kremlin, there was growing irritation that the Americans seemed to be acting more Soviet than the Soviets. Korolev's newly published records include notes he took at a stormy meeting of top party leaders, in which they railed in exasperation at the rival rocket czars for putting "private interests" above "common state interests." Just look at how the Americans seemed to have mastered their "capitalist antagonisms," one party leader exclaimed.
This may be the most delicious paradox of the space race: while the Americans, those free-market gladiators, assembled a huge bureaucracy and frog-marched their industry in a great mobilization, the ostensibly single-minded command economy of the Soviet Union devolved into a greedy squabble.
In 1966, Soviet space aspirations suffered a disorienting blow. Korolev died in a Kremlin hospital while having a cancerous tumor removed from his intestine. He was 59. In death his identity was declassified. He was buried with other heroes of the Soviet state in the Kremlin wall, maps were redrawn to add his name to streets, towns, even a crater on the moon. The burden of continuing the race fell to Korolev's deputy, Vasily Mishin, a solid engineer utterly lacking in his boss's charisma or political gifts.
The United States, meanwhile, was enjoying a spurt of innovation in space. In March 1966, the Americans were the first to dock two spacecraft in orbit, and through the year they perfected the art of the rendezvous in space. The Russians, still tinkering with the Soyuz spacecraft, went the full year without a manned flight.
American intelligence reports now speculated that the Soviets probably had no hope of putting a man on the moon before 1970 and were more likely to try a manned flight around the moon to, in the C.I.A.'s top-secret estimation, "offset some of the propaganda value of a successful U.S. lunar landing."
But in January 1967, the Americans suffered a harrowing setback. An electrical fire ignited the oxygen-rich atmosphere in the Apollo 1 capsule, incinerating three astronauts taking part in a training exercise. The tragedy meant the Apollo program would stand down for months, and quickened Soviet hopes of taking the lead. They soon reinforced their own optimism by successfully testing Korolev's hybrid circumlunar rocket in an eight-lap jaunt around the earth.
While the technicians tinkered with the machinery, Russian cosmonauts were training intensively for the moon, both for a landing and for a face-saving flyby.
To prepare cosmonauts for the possibility of visual navigation through the southern sky, Aleksei Leonov told me, the Soviets flew them to Somalia, a country then friendly with Moscow.
"We had to be proficient with the southern sky, in case the landing controls failed and we had to navigate manually," Leonov said. "They took us into the desert at night, far away from any city lights, and we lay on our backs, studying the constellations. In the morning, we had to draw the stars from memory."
To simulate the hazards of landing a moon vehicle, Leonov said, cosmonauts ascended over a training field in helicopters, then turned off the engines and practiced bringing the choppers to earth manually.
In April 1967, however, the Soviets were slowed by a disaster of their own. A cosmonaut sailed into orbit for a critical test of the Soyuz spacecraft, which was to be part of a moon-landing mission. The plan was to launch a second craft and carry out the Soviets' first manned docking. But the first spacecraft malfunctioned, and during an attempted early return the parachute wrapped around the re-entry vehicle. It crashed to earth, killing Vladimir Komarov, the cosmonaut on board. It would be 18 months before the Soviets chanced another Soyuz launch.
There is debate to this day about whether the Russians raced with less regard than the Americans for the risks to human passengers. It is true that Russia is not a Ralph Nader culture, as anyone who has flown the slovenly skies of Aeroflot can attest. American astronauts have been appalled, upon visiting the Russian Mir space station, to see cables draped casually through air locks that are supposed to seal off hazardous modules in case of a fire or other emergency.
Still, the Russians have lost fewer lives in their space program than the Americans. Moreover, after the fatal Soyuz crash, more conservative rules were set in place requiring a series of error-free unmanned flights before men would be launched around the moon.
Mark Wade, who runs the on-line Encyclopedia Aeronautica (solar.rtd.utk.edu/ mwade/spaceflt), argues that this new safety regimen may have prevented the Russians from beating the Americans in a scene-stealing flight around the moon. A Soviet spacecraft that circled the moon and splashed down in the Indian Ocean in September 1968 might have had cosmonauts on board if the Soviets had not turned cautious after the earlier Soyuz disaster. Instead, it traveled without passengers.
Three months later, three astronauts aboard Apollo 8 orbited the moon 10 times -- radioing back a Christmas message and photographing that unforgettable scene of an earthrise over the lunar surface.
At the drawing board and in the design shop, the competition never slowed -- even as the Americans seemed to be pulling away. Korolev, always impatient to get to the launch pad, had never placed much stock in static testing of his components -- and the policy continued after his death. Constructing the apparatus to test-fire a rocket engine on the ground was time-consuming and expensive. Build the rocket, blast off, monitor the mistakes, then build the next rocket better -- that was the Korolev way.
In contrast, Apollo engineers tested every component on the ground, producing rockets that generally flew the first time. So did Korolev's rival, Chelomei.
"Korolev was a gambler," said Sergei Khrushchev, who worked for Chelomei. "He told me: 'You are working wrong, step by step. I build the rocket and push the button."'
On Feb. 21, 1969, knowing the Americans were months away from a moon launch, Korolev's successors pushed the button on the first unmanned test of the giant 30-engine booster rocket intended to take cosmonauts eventually to the moon.
It lifted majestically from the pad. But 68 seconds into the flight, violent vibrations broke a fuel pipe. Hot propellant poured into the tail section, shorting the wiring and shutting down all the engines. The rocket crashed 34 miles away.
On July 3, the Russians tried again. This time, as the rocket was getting to its full thrust, one of the engines apparently inhaled a stray bolt and exploded. As the huge rocket lifted from the pad, a safety system began shutting down the other engines one by one, but a single rocket remained lighted, enough to tip the rocket on its side. It toppled to the ground in a huge ball of flame that left the launch pad a charred ruin.
There was one last-ditch attempt to steal some of America's thunder in the face of the impending American moon landing.
In the first months of 1969, a team of engineers labored almost without sleep to finish work on an unmanned probe they hoped would, for the first time, scoop up a sample of the moon and bring it back to earth. The robot probe, called Luna, was the 15th in a series, and at liftoff July 13 every bug seemed to have been worked out of the craft. But the probe could not get its landing equipment to work and it was stuck in lunar orbit on July 20, when Neil Armstrong stepped onto the moon. The next day the little robot crashed to the lunar surface.
That third week of July, the race was finally over. The American moon landing, the live television event of the century, was blacked out in the Soviet Union, except for a special few -- the generals and party big shots and top members of the Soviet lunar team. Ordinary Russians would get a brief account of the trip on the nightly news, where it was the fifth item, following a salute to Soviet metalworkers and the celebration of Polish Liberation Day.
At the rocket design center in Podlipki, the Russian rocket engineers and cosmonauts who had dominated the cosmos for most of the young space age gathered around flickering black-and-white monitors to observe their rivals' ultimate triumph.
As the landing module descended softly into the Sea of Tranquillity, and a translator rendered Neil Armstrong's words into Russian, there was a hush compounded of awe and disappointment, envy and suspense.
Chertok tamped down his sadness and embarrassment by thinking about where this would lead. His mind was already drifting to the next round of competition, to surpass the American feat by building a permanent lunar base. Surely, he thought, this was just a new beginning.
When the news of its success reached the Russian public, it inspired a mix of reactions -- excitement, whispered questions about why the Soviets had not made it there first and the kind of self-effacing jokes that are part of the charm of Russian stoicism.
"Bad news, comrade: now even the Chinese have landed on the moon. But there is good news, too: all the Chinese."
After the explosion that destroyed the N-1 launch pad, it took two years to build a new one nearby. From there, the Russians fired a third test in June 1971. It crashed 10 miles away, blasting a deep crater in the salty soil, where bits of the rocket still lie. You can harvest them, like fragments of the Berlin wall, as souvenirs.
In November 1972, a fourth rocket lofted high into the sky, and Russian hopes soared for 107 seconds, until an explosion in the tail destroyed the rocket.
Many veterans of the program and some Western experts think Korolev's experts were close to making the dance of 30 engines work, and a fifth test might have succeeded.
Delegations of rocket makers pleaded that it was still possible to trump the Americans, to build a lunar base, a way station to the planets. But the politicians had run out of patience. The rocket program drifted until 1974, when Valentin Glushko, Korolev's sullen rival, was put in charge; he promptly ended the program and set about obliterating it from the public record. Though he made one last effort to revive his own moon rocket, it was unsuccessful, and he died in 1989.
The unfired N-1 rockets were dismembered and used as scrap. Around Baikonur their remnants have been recycled as playground sandboxes, shades for picnic tables and feeding troughs for pigs.
"Our leaders wouldn't listen to us," Mishin, Korolev's successor, said. "When we said we were prepared to do it better -- later, but better -- than the Americans, they said no."
Mishin was made the fall guy for the moon defeat. He was called before the Central Committee for a reprimand and fired. His name was omitted from the Soviet space encyclopedia.
For Americans, the wonder of Apollo had waned by Dec. 19, 1972, when Eugene Cernan, the last of 12 Americans to visit the moon, blasted off with a graceless farewell -- Let's get this mother out of here." No human has set foot on the moon since, and there are no plans to return.
If the Apollo program won by mounting the kind of command performance that was supposed to be the strength of the Communist system -- if, as Korolev's heirs like to say, we won by doing it their way -- then the demise of the Apollo program fits with the classical dimensions of the story. Like the whole Soviet experiment, Apollo was an audacious, crisis-driven, quasi-military undertaking that could not be sustained once it had no enemy to compete with.
These days the Russian space program is a shell of its ambitions, crippled by the general economic decline, by the lack of public interest, by political stresses. Baikonur is participating in the assembly of a new, American-led international space station, but the Russian role is widely viewed as a kind of welfare program to help prevent the complete collapse of Russia's economy. Those Russians who are not indifferent now tend to regard spaceflight as a costly Government folly or, worse, as yet another arena in which the arrogant Americans lord it over their defeated cold war rivals.
Among the Russian veterans of the moon race, wistfulness about the space program is inseparable from a larger disenchantment. They talk with bitterness about the loss of purpose, the squandered human potential, the humiliation before the West.
Mishin, the scapegoat, has devoted the past decade to vindicating himself. He lives, at age 82, in a cavernous but shabby apartment above a flagrant reminder of American hegemony -- the Beverly Hills Casino and Disco. His spirit seems curdled by resentment.
"I was accused of failing to beat the Americans," Mishin fumed in March. "But everyone knew from the beginning the Americans would win. By the time Korolev died, it was already absolutely clear."
At the end of our interview he lapsed into a nostalgic reverie for the days of Stalin, whose harsh ways, Mishin assured me, had really been much exaggerated. The new international space station, Mishin theorized, was probably disguising some new American military advantage.
Feoktistov, the engineer-cosmonaut, is robust, thick-haired and wry at 73. He lives comfortably in a housing complex built for cosmonauts, with a picture window looking onto snowy forests and a military guard to keep out trouble. Although he continues to teach at a technical school, he now professes to regard the long-running Olympics of manned spaceflight as a laughable folly.
"We had a lunar program because the Americans had a lunar program," he said. "When I speak of the stupidity of the Soviet program, the same applies to the American program. These decisions were not made by scientists. They were made by politicians. And for what?"
The single most intriguing discovery about the moon itself, Feoktistov said, the possible presence of water at the lunar poles, which could sustain an eventual lunar colony, has come from an unmanned probe 26 years after the last human left the moon.
"From an engineering standpoint, the Apollo program was quite an accomplishment," Feoktistov mused. "But what was the result? They brought back a few hundred kilograms of rocks. We got absolutely no information about the origin of the moon, for example. The Americans wasted $25 billion for prestige. For $25 billion, they might have done something more interesting."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rocket men: Sergei Korolev, far right, the charismatic aerospace designer, saying bon voyage to Yuri Gagarin, near right, before the first manned spaceflight, in 1961; Aleksei Leonov, left, during his historic leap into space, in March 1965.; There's no such thing as a free launch: The N-1 rocket, left, which Korolev got the military to bankroll, blasted off to disaster in February 1969; Soviet engineers studying a model for the N-1 launch pad, above.; The dark side of the moon: Photographed for the first time, right, during the Soviet Union's Luna 3 mission, in 1959; Korolev, below, viewed the moon as a stepping stone to other planets.; Once in a red moon (clockwise from right): A trinket sent to the moon during Luna 9; posters of Gagarin, May Day 1961; Korolev (second from right) and Khrushchev (second from left) at a reception for Gagarin (center); Vladimir Komarov (left) and Konstantin Feoktistov live on Russian TV, October 1964.; Moon unit: Soviet space fashion circa 1968, below. Getting ready to blast off at the N-1 launch pad, right. Valentin Glushko, master designer of rocket engines and master refuser of Korolev's demands, bottom.; Moonstruck: These U.S. spy satellite photos of launch pad facilities under construction at Baikonur, above, convinced the Americans that the Russians might get to the moon first; Vladimir Chelomei, left, the anti-Korolev.; Mishin control: Vasily Mishin, right, Korolev's heir. The second N-1 explosion, above, July 1969. The funeral for Komarov, killed during a 1967 Soyuz flight. (Right page, clockwise from upper right: Sovfoto/Eastfoto; National Space Science Data Center; Sovfoto/Eastfoto; from "Fiftieth Anniversary Landmarks"  Energia Ltd. Left page: Hulton Getty/Liaison Agency. Clockwise from upper right: Marc Riboud/Magnum; Natalya Koroleva; Archive photos; Videocosmos. Clockwise from top: Videocosmos; Charles Vick; Videocosmos; Energia Ltd.; Sotheby's. Clockwise from right: V. Savosryanov/Tass/Sovfoto/Eastfoto; Energia Ltd.; from "Communist Moon"/Llanishenfilms Ltd./Discovery Wings Channel.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); EGYPT (74%); 

STATE: EARTH'S MOON (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); EGYPT (74%); EARTH'S MOON (94%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MOON; APOLLO PROJECT MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); SPACE PROPULSION (78%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); RADAR SYSTEMS (71%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; KOROLEV, SERGEI PAVLOVICH; CHELOMEI, VLADIMIR; GLUSHKO, VALENTIN

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



557 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 16; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 6-27-99: On Language;
Faith-Based

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
'Government should welcome the help of faith-based institutions," Gov. George W. Bush of Texas said in 1996. In April of this year, a spokesman for his brother, Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, told The News and Record of Greensboro, N.C., "The Governor supports faith-based initiatives."
"For too long," said Vice President Al Gore to the Salvation Army in Atlanta last month, "faith-based organizations have wrought miracles on a shoestring." He welcomed "the voices of faith-based organizations." 
 In covering Gore's speech, John Harwood of The Wall Street Journal noted "both political parties' growing acceptance of faith-based solutions since Republicans began promoting the idea several years ago." But Kevin Sack of The New York Times, though reporting Gore's usage in direct quotation, did not use the suddenly popular phrase in his own writing; instead, he used the more traditional noun in discussing "government financing of religion-based welfare-to-work initiatives."
Faith-based is hot enough to be enshrined in the official canon. In Wisconsin, the Joint Legislative Council established the Special Committee on Faith-Based Approaches to Crime Prevention and Justice. Assembly Speaker Scott Jensen's legal counsel defines those approaches as "the acknowledgment of and faith in a higher power," the belief that social pathologies include "conditions of the soul" and that treatment involves "a fundamental transformation of character."
The earliest use of this modifier now so in vogue was in criticism, not affirmation, of religion in public life. In 1981, Clarence Martin, a lobbyist for the Association for the Advancement of Psychology, wrote that scholars of the social sciences, heirs to Darwin, Marx and Freud, "are the empirical left who may challenge the views, or more importantly reject the faith-based values, of the creationists, the moral majority, the laissez-faire industrialists, the economic determinists, the sexists, the militarists, the coalition who put Reagan in office."
The linguistic mystery: why are political figures all using faith-based rather than religion-based or, more simply than that adjectival compound, the old-fashioned adjective religious?
Religion (probably from the Latin religare, "to restrain") is a set of beliefs; faith, (from fidere, "to trust") is the unquestioning trust in the truth of those beliefs.
American political tradition, following its metaphor of "a wall of separation between church and state," shies away from "religion in politics" but not away from religious values in public life. By substituting faith (trust in the truths) for religion (the organized set of beliefs), the new compound adjective gets around the traditional objection. The Rev. Bill Callahan of the Quixote Center in Hyattsville, Md., says, "The language of faith-based signals to people our motivation while separating us from the institutions."
-Based is a hot formative suffix. Though broad-based is two centuries old, zero-based took off around 1970 and missile lingo gave us land-based, sea-based and space-based. A discussion of this particular parasynthetic derivative is based-based.
 
Dismilitarize?
Few people are for unilateral disarmament. Most Koreans and Americans are familiar, after four decades, with a demilitarized zone, or DMZ. Now, from the war that brought us nonpermissive environment, we have a distinction drawn between disarm and demilitarize.
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Gen. Henry H. Shelton, said on ABC's "This Week": "We never said that we were going to 'disarm' the K.L.A. We used the term 'demilitarize."' The Wall Street Journal editorialized on its meaning to the Kosovo Libercation Army: "This distinction apparently means they can keep their hunting rifles, relying on a U.N.-supervised force to protect them from Serbian tanks."
The distinction, more finely put, is this: disarm means "to divest of weapons; to deprive of the means of attack." Demilitarize means "to close a military organization; to remove the military power or potential."
Now we're into the trickiest kind of semantics. How disarmed do you have to be to call yourself demilitarized? I think it depends, first, on the power of the weaponry: if you carry a rifle or a pistol, you are armed but not necessarily militarized; if you are in an armored personnel carrier or in a choppering gunship, You're in the Army Now. But how about an automatic rifle, a small mortar or a light machine gun? If that's not militarized, what about a little howitzer or a heavy machine gun or shoulder-mounted missile? This has yet to be determined.
The second part of the meaning of demilitarized deals with organization. Can a demilitarized group call itself an army? (The Salvation Army would say yes.) Are a buncha guys hanging around in civvies and calling one another "Mister" demilitarized if they practice maneuvers and draw a table of organization in the sand?
The Pentagon spokesman, Ken Bacon, informs me: "Disarm means to take weapons away from an army. Demilitarize means to disband the army." As I get it, the K.L.A. will be disbanded but not disarmed, which suggest its members can keep all their arms as individuals but may not assemble or otherwise get organized.
The current meaning will be worked out at the negotiating tables and on the field, then passed to lexicographers. Meanwhile, we are in a very gray area. I asked a top soldier-diplomat if he would like to set me straight on the latest specific meaning of demilitarize. I am not sure if he replied, "No, thanks" or "No tanks." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); THE SALVATION ARMY (57%); THE SALVATION ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (57%); THE SALVATION ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES RELIGION (97%); POLITICS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); CHURCH & STATE (87%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CREATIONISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LINGUISTICS (75%); NEW CHEMICALS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); LAWYERS (64%); CRIME PREVENTION (51%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM GEORGE W BUSH (88%); AL GORE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



558 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1849 words

HEADLINE: The Rise and Fall of Edward Doyle Sr.;
A Teamsters Icon Who Could Deliver Votes Is Forced to Resign His $172,000-a-Year Post

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: ELMSFORD

 BODY:
FOR 15 years, Edward Doyle Sr. has been the most powerful labor leader in Westchester, treated with adulation by truck drivers proud that they earn more than $50,000 a year and with deferential regard by the county's leading contractors and political leaders who crave his good will.
When Mr. Doyle holds a golf tournament for a charitable foundation named for his parents, the guest list reads like a "Who's Who in Westchester," said State Senator Nicholas A. Spano, the county's Republican leader. (And Mr. Spano does not play golf.) 
 When Mr. Doyle threw his support in the tight 1993 race for county executive behind the incumbent, Andrew P. O'Rourke, it assured defeat for the Democratic contender, Assemblyman Richard E. Brodsky.
"I would say that anyone who runs for office in Westchester comes to see Eddie Doyle," said the union's lawyer, Roy Barnes, in a matter-of-fact remark that other political leaders echoed more privately. "Eddie can deliver votes and can deliver manpower and contributions."
This month, the 59-year-old Mr. Doyle lost an important perch on the county's Olympus when, facing the threat of lifetime exile from the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, he agreed to a seven-year suspension and resigned the $172,000-a-year presidency of Local 456.
His comedown resulted not from sour labor negotiations or reckless political dealings, but from his purchase of two used cars at discounted rates from the same Yonkers car dealer from which his local bought new cars for its officers and business agents. Charging embezzlement and bribery, investigators for a board that monitors corruption within the Teamsters said he got the favorable rates for his two personal cars because the Teamsters were paying top dollar for their new cars. The United States Attorney's office in Manhattan is delving into the same set of circumstances.
But his departure from the Teamsters does not mean he has lost all his footholds as a power broker. The Teamsters, which Mr. Doyle's critics say he ran like a family candy store, will now be run by his younger brother, Bernard, 55, and by a seven-member executive board that also includes his son, Edward Jr., and his brother-in-law, George Graff. A 20-minute ovation that a thousand Teamsters delegates gave the departing Mr. Doyle on June 14 suggested how long his influence will linger.
Mr. Doyle will also remain as head of the Westchester-Putnam Building and Construction Trades Council, with 35,000 members, whose delegates unanimously reaffirmed his leadership on June 15. Under his stewardship, the council, an umbrella group of 17 construction unions like carpenters, steam fitters, bricklayers, plumbers and heavy equipment operators, has locked up 95 percent of the county's nonresidential construction and maintained a decade of labor peace. By hammering out "project labor agreements," it has assured an absence of strikes and a more reliable pace of work on $2 billion worth of new construction since 1994.
"He's out of the Teamsters, but his role in Westchester won't be that much different," Mr. Barnes said.
Still, his dethroning as head of a 3,500-member local has wounded a man who, intimates say, lived and breathed the union in which he had been bred by his father, also Edward Doyle, who was president of the local from 1940 until his death in 1960. The plain-spoken, steel-willed Mr. Doyle had tears welling in his eyes as he spoke of his loss in an interview at union headquarters, based in a squat dark glass building here.
"My members don't want me to leave here, no way at all, but what choice do I have," he said. "They told my attorney if I go to fight it they might not only ban me for life but possibly try to have me criminally indicted. What kind of choice is that? They say I resigned; sure I resigned. They said sign this thing that I wasn't under no coercion. They gave me five minutes to make a choice for my whole life." He added, "I didn't get where I was by being a choir boy, but I've never been dishonest."
The three-member Independent Review Board, which includes William H. Webster, former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, was set up under a 1989 consent decree between the Teamsters and the Federal Government stemming from a settlement of a civil racketeering lawsuit. Mr. Barnes said the board began investigating Mr. Doyle after an incidental allusion to him on tapes recorded during an investigation of John A. Gotti, the acting Gambino family crime boss. Mr. Barnes said that Federal investigators were never able to find any link between Mr. Doyle and organized crime.
The board accused Local 456 of buying 12 cars for its officers and business agents costing a total of $377,630 -- roughly the manufacturer's suggested retail price -- from Park Lincoln Mercury of Yonkers and trading in their old cars for less than they were worth. In exchange for this arrangement favorable to the dealer, the investigators said, Mr. Doyle and other union executives were able to repurchase the union's used vehicles for their private use at sharply discounted rates, saving themselves a total of $18,335.
He was negotiating a price favorable to himself rather than to the local, said Charles M. Carberry, chief investigator for the review board.
In Mr. Doyle's case, he was able to buy a used Lincoln Continental in 1995 for his wife, Linda, for $14,500, $2,000 below what the local received on the trade. Then in 1998, his wife bought another used Lincoln for $14,500, exactly what the local had received on the trade-in -- and without a dealer markup. Such discounts, the board said, constituted a bribe for future union business. The discounted cars, the board observed, were not available to anyone except officials selected by Mr. Doyle.
In interviews, Mr. Doyle and his lawyer rejected the board's logic. They argued that in calculating the price of the new cars the board neglected to count options like CD players and sun roofs. In analyzing the trade-ins, Mr. Doyle said, the board relied on a used-car price guide different from one used by all metropolitan New York area dealers.
Mr. Doyle, a muscular man with silver hair swept back in 1950's rock-star style, has been a member of the Teamsters for 40 years. As a teen-ager, he learned the union business sitting in with his father on negotiations and driving with him to construction sites. He became a truck driver at 18, hauling coal and concrete and servicing oil burners.
Mr. Doyle's legacy is that he recognized that the union, more than knuckling its way in with picket lines, needed to gain a seat at the political and legislative table, where larger economic decisions are made. The Teamsters' office is sprinkled with dozens of political trophies -- he recently received a proclamation from County District Attorney Jeanine Pirro -- and photographs of him with Gov. George E. Pataki and dignitaries like John Cardinal O'Connor.
Democrats and Republicans describe Mr. Doyle as an unadorned man who, in Nicholas Spano's words, "will give you a straight answer and you will always know where he stands." Mr. Brodsky, whose Assembly campaigns Mr. Doyle has backed, said, "He became the single most influential figure in the local economy and local politics because he's disciplined and tough."
Mr. Doyle described his own leadership talent as a knack for knowing what his members need and sensing how hard to press.
"I know how far to push an employer and when to stop," he said. "I could push for a little more, but I could also lose my members their jobs. Without those employers, where are we going to go?"
Mr. Doyle defends the domination of the local executive board by his relatives, saying each relative was a veteran truck driver who joined with him in the battle to take over the union's leadership. Ken Paff, a national organizer for Teamsters for a Democratic Union, the reform movement inside the 1.4 million-member national union, says such family fiefdoms are not surprising in a national union that is still run by a Hoffa.
Local 456 represents not only drivers of fuel trucks and dump trucks but also hundreds of workers at the county's cities and villages and a contingent of 300 administrators, doctors, lawyers and financial officers who work for Westchester County or the county hospital. Andrew P. O'Rourke, the former county executive, said these managers unionized in the late 1980's after the County Board of Legislators refused to grant them a raise.
Mr. Doyle has not only won salaries for drivers that surpass that of teachers but also such perquisites as a $5-an-hour retirement annuity.
Mr. Doyle has also enhanced the county's business climate. Mr. O'Rourke said when builders wanted to build The Westchester mall, a project crucial to the revival of business in White Plains, Mr. Doyle negotiated a contract that assured that all the work would be carried out by unionized workers in exchange for a promise not to strike and for an agreement that all unions would abide by the same hours and other working conditions
"We got the guarantee that the project would be completed in time and it has been tremendous for Westchester," Mr. O'Rourke said.
Part of Mr. Doyle's clout in dealing with figures like Mr. O'Rourke has come from the vote-pulling sway of the local and building trades council. While still a young truck driver in Yonkers, Mr. Doyle figured out that he would wield much more influence by joining the Conservative Party, whose ideology did not dovetail with his but whose votes often swung victory to either the Democrat or the Republican. He has taken that pragmatic strategy to county and local elections. He supported the Republican Mr. O'Rourke in his re-election bids, but in the last election he backed the Democratic favorite, Andrew J. Spano, for county executive.
"When Eddie Doyle says he's going to help you he delivers," said Nicholas Spano, who is no relation to Andrew Spano. "During the campaigns, where we may need 20 or 30 volunteers to help put up signs or construct signs or hand out literature, Eddie has always been a phone call away."
Mr. Doyle is often praised for his long resistance to mob figures who tried to penetrate the local. Mr. Doyle says that in the early 1950's, during his father's tenure, a local executive, John Acropolis, was shot and killed in the battle to organize the garbage industry and keep the mob out. Around the same time, his father was run off the road and left with a heart condition that later proved to be the cause of his death. Mr. Barnes said it was ironic that a board charged with rooting out organized crime has forced out a leader who did just that.
When he looked at the case against Mr. Doyle, Mr. Paff observed that it had been personal failings rather than mob ties that have most often proved the undoing of Teamsters leaders.
"Most of the people removed from the union were not charged with organized crime association," Mr. Paff said. "They were charged with things like this: confusing the union treasury with their own bank account."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Westchester Teamsters demonstrated outside their union's headquarters in Elmsford on the last day of work for Edward Doyle Sr., right, as president of Local 456. Mr. Doyle continues to head the Westchester-Putnam Building and Construction Trades Council and presided at a recent meeting of its executive committee, left. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Teamsters line up to hug Edward Doyle Sr. at the Elmsford headquarters. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESIGNATIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (83%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOLF (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (74%); BRIBERY (73%); MASONRY CONTRACTORS (72%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (72%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); CHARITIES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (68%); EMBEZZLEMENT (63%); FOUNDATIONS (56%); 

PERSON: EDWARD DOYLE SR (96%); ROY BARNES (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



559 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3045 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Up With Jones Beach;
A City on the Sand for 8 Million, Silicone Singles to Kite Flyers

BYLINE: By DAVID WINZELBERG

DATELINE: JONES BEACH STATE PARK

 BODY:
THERE are more than 1,200 miles of shore on Long Island, but for millions of people who come here to frolic in the sand and surf there is only one beach.
For the last 70 years, Jones Beach has been the summer playground for generations of Long Islanders. A uniquely suburban refuge (where else are beaches named for parking lots?), it boasts six and a half miles of oceanfront within its 2,413 acres and a slew of other features, including miniature golf, shuffleboard and even an unofficial nude beach. 
 One of the most popular summer destinations in the country, Jones Beach State Park recorded nearly eight million visitors last year, outdrawing Yosemite and Yellowstone National Parks combined. State parks officials are expecting to eclipse that number this year. More than 320,000 people lay blanket to blanket at Jones Beach during the recent Memorial Day holiday, the largest opening weekend crowd in 20 years.
With a beach in his own backyard, Ruben Sierra travels here from Far Rockaway, in Queens. "You have pools, a nice boardwalk, nice restaurants, a clean beach and good security," he said. "They don't put up with nonsense. It's much safer and you can really enjoy yourself."
Michael Hollander, president of the Long Island Conventions and Visitors Bureau, estimated that Jones Beach brings in around $50 million a year to the Long Island economy. "A majority of the visitors are now from New York City and New Jersey," he said. "It draws more people than the Jersey Shore. It's less commercial and away from civilization. You wouldn't even know where you were if somebody flew you in."
Though flying in is not an option, it probably would be the transportation of choice for those who have been bumper to bumper on the Meadowbrook Parkway on a sweltering Sunday morning. Most of the 23,000 parking spaces at Jones Beach fill up fast, especially on peak weekends. Field 6, with the shortest walk from asphalt to ocean, is usually filled by 9 A.M.
For those who want to avoid the traffic, Jones Beach is served by buses originating from Jamaica, Hicksville, Wantagh and the Freeport L.I.R.R. station. The bicycle path that runs alongside the Wantagh Parkway from Cedar Creek Park, just south of Merrick Road, provides another alternative. Some cyclists and skaters actually use it to get to the beach; the park provides storage racks and a bike lifeguard on the lookout for thieves.
Like any large town, even one where no one spends the night, Jones Beach has developed a demographic pattern. And like any large town, the pattern includes a kaleidoscope of groups: singles, families with children, retirees, the steroid and silicone crowd, gays, walkers, joggers, boaters, beachcombers, surfers, bellyboarders, fishermen, kite flyers, chess players, nudists, nature lovers, suntan freaks and on and on.
Field 5 on shallow, surf-free Zach's Bay attracts young families with toddlers. Distant West End 2, known for its singles scene, also lures nature lovers and its wide beach allows for extra personal space. "We like it because it's quiet and has a great shower house," said Karin Fern, from Manhattan.
Robert and Jana Guskin, from Plainview, married after meeting at West End 2, 25 years ago. "I was there with my friends and she was there with her friends," said Dr. Guskin. "She was shiny from baby oil. Nobody knew from melanomas back then."
Sometimes called Muscle Beach, Field 4 displays a large collection of hardbodies. "We come here for the mostly naked girls," said Sean Foronjy, 18, from Westbury. Looking out over the central mall beach from the boardwalk steps, Santina Dignoti of Elmont said, "It's a meat market."
The largest contingent of kite flyers is at Field 6, among the hard-core beachgoers who have to arrive early before the parking lot fills up. The park police call them the Sandinistas because they keep to the sand.
The other subgroup at Field 6, dubbed the concretions, are mostly retirees who never leave the concrete patio area behind the concession stand.
Martha and Jack Kasner, from Island Park, have been coming here for 30 years and station themselves on beach chairs on a narrow strip of cement in the shade of the lifeguard shack. "They call this spot Martha's Vineyard," Mrs. Kasner said. She said that she came to the beach only on weekends, but that her husband was here every day, even in the winter. "They turn the West Bathhouse into a senior citizens center," Mr. Kasner said. "We play cards."
Sitting at a table on the patio, Clarence Dahl, from Wantagh, and Barry Lorber, from Massapequa, both retired, said they had made dozens of friends at Field 6 over the years. "We like this beach because of the convenience and the pretty girls too," said Mr. Dahl, nodding approvingly toward a bikini-clad blonde about 40 years his junior.
"This is a crossroads," said Mr. Lorber. "It's kind of like Times Square here."
And two miles to the east, sometimes known as Field 6 1/2, although without its own parking lot, is a nude beach with a predominately gay clientele. "We don't recognize it as such," said Frank Kollar, park superintendant. "It's remote. You have to go way out of your way to get there."
Although there is a state law prohibiting nudity, members of the park police usually ask the offenders to move a few yards to the east, just outside the park and toward the Town of Oyster Bay beach. The small park force, which numbers less than 100, including 50 seasonal officers, primarily concentrates on traffic control and lost children. Officers Paul Marcel and Ed Wahl said they located about a dozen lost children each day.
"We've found them up to two miles from where they were reported," said Officer Wahl, a retired Nassau County police lieutenant who has worked the last 12 summers here.
Deeply tanned and armed with easy smiles, the patrol team of Officers Wahl and Marcel are more like beach ambassadors than crime fighters. Park regulars call them by their first names.
Officer Marcel, who moonlighted as the voice of Frankie the Frog on a compact disc for children, said most park police tasks were service-oriented, like the rescue of a stranded fisherman when the tide came up and covered part of the West End jetty. But the park police said officers sometimes went undercover to make drug arrests, and insisted, all evidence to the contrary, that the police were also diligent in keeping people from bringing alcoholic beverages onto the beach.
Equipped with all-terrain vehicles, bicycles and personal watercraft, the park police also handle car break-ins and altercations fueled by all that alcohol that isn't being consumed on the beach. But the police report that such incidents are down over the last few years. "It's not like Baywatch at all," said Lieut. Stephan Kowal, an 18-year park police veteran.
Officer Wahl, whose father was a state trooper who patrolled the beach when the park first opened in 1929, recalled a recent lifesaving effort of an 18-month-old child. "I was riding my A.T.V. in the middle of the beach and a man came running with a package in his arms. He said, 'My baby stopped breathing!' I gave him mouth-to-mouth while I was driving. After a minute, the kid threw up all over me."
While the park police protect the crowds on land, the 275 lifeguards at Jones Beach watch over the people in the water. Every year, 2,500 to 3,000 rescues are performed here, including about 500 in the park's two swimming pools.
During a busy day, as many as 25,000 people can be in the water at once, according to Joe Scalese, director of lifeguards. Mr. Scalese said that dangerous riptides were rare, but that a milder undertow called a sea puss was a frequent problem.
"We keep a close watch on the tide and the sweep," said Mr. Scalese, 54, a lifeguard here for 38 years who has lost his leathery tan now that he has a desk job. "We take a preventative approach."
Jones Beach lifeguards, who range in age from 17 to 72, occupy the 50 lifeguard stands from Memorial Day weekend to Labor Day. Despite their vigilance, there is a drowning death every two or three years, said Mr. Scalese, mostly outside the green-flagged areas that denote sections monitored by lifeguards. "It's usually people that aren't beach savvy that are the problem," he said.
Lifeguards come on duty at 9:45 A.M. and stay until around 8 P.M. But some beachgoers don't know when to leave. "We pull hundreds of people off the beach at night," said Bill Hroch, a lifeguard at Field 6.
Beside lifeguards there are 25 emergency medical technicians at the park's six first aid stations, who treat everything from splinters to heart attacks. The state hires 650 seasonal workers to help the 59-member year-round staff maintain the park. High school and college students make up the summer employees who help pick up 35 tons of garbage each day. Every morning beginning at 5 A.M., crews comb the beach with tractor-drawn surf rakes, which clean out shells, wood, bottle caps and other debris.
Lisa Solina, a surf rake operator, said the crews started at Field 6 and worked their way west, raking the sand from the water's edge to the high-tide line.
Most of their haul is seaweed, Ms. Solina said. There have been no doubloons or diamond necklaces. "I should be so lucky," she said. "We couldn't keep anything anyway. It would have to be turned in."
Tiaras lost on the beach are the grand prize for beachcombers, the most dedicated of whom use metal detectors to locate buried treasure. Dozens of gizmo-equipped treasure hunters, allowed on the beach by permit only, can be found sweeping the beach in the morning or evening following a weekend day, listening for the detector's beeping through headphones. "I always hope for jewelry," said one occasional beachcomber, "but I mostly get tin foil and a bunch of bottle caps."
Other areas of Jones Beach State Park feel less like Beach and more like Park. Walkways in the central mall and other areas are planted every spring with 48,000 annuals. At a nursery at the east end of Zach's Bay, park staff grow 12,000 mums for fall planting.
The central mall is dominated by the Jones Beach water tower. Modeled after the campanile of St. Mark's Cathedral in Venice, the 200-foot high water tower could be the most recognizable edifice in Nassau County. It holds a 315,000-gallon water tank, which is supplied by three 1,000-foot wells.
On a busy day, the park will go through up to half a million gallons of water. Jones Beach has its own sewage and water treatment plants to handle the use of its 1,400 bathroom fixtures. Since last year the park spent $2.5 million in plumbing improvements, including the renovation of the women's comfort station at the central mall and replacement of water mains that had not been changed since it first opened.
As the water takes its toll on the plumbing, the ocean waves take a toll on the beaches. About every five years, the Army Corps of Engineers dredge the Fire Island Inlet and replace sand back onto Jones Beach that was eroded with the tide. Since the 1950's some 18 million cubic yards of sand has been restored to the beaches here, according to Henry Bokuniewicz, a professor of oceanography at Stony Brook.
The jetties at Fire Island Inlet to the east and the Jones Inlet to the west block the natural movement of sand, making a big difference in the size of the beaches (and thus the length of your hike from the car to the water). At high tide the beach is nearly 1,400 feet wide at West End 2 and less than 400 feet at Field 6.
Before it became a pet project of Robert Moses, head of the Long Island State Park Commission, Jones Beach was an undeveloped coastal barrier island about five miles from the mainland, used only by an occasional fisherman.
The long, narrow spit of sand and marsh was named after Maj. Thomas Jones, an Irish mercenary and part-time pirate who preyed on merchant ships in the Atlantic. Major Jones married Freelove Townsend in 1696 and settled some 600 acres in what is now Massapequa. A few years later he laid claim to the offshore barrier island, where he established a whaling station. The beach and marshland remained mostly uninhabited until Moses envisioned a public recreation opportunity two centuries later.
Over 40 million cubic yards of sand was the main ingredient when construction of the park began in December 1926. More than 25 miles of the Great South Bay were dredged to deepen the waterway and provide the sand to cover up channels and shore up the beaches. Millions of sprigs of dune grasses were planted by hand to keep the sugary bay-bottom sand from blowing away. By the time it opened, Jones Beach was an environment utterly transformed.
"If someone was to propose today what Robert Moses did decades ago, it's highly unlikely they would get the necessary environmental permits to do so," said John Turner, a legislative director of the state's Water Resource Commission. "But to Moses' credit, this was a noble gesture which provided a huge public benefit."
As with most of his other projects in a career that transformed Long Island, Moses brokered deals that garnered the cooperation of local governments to build the park and its access roads. When a causeway contractor ran out of money, Moses reportedly borrowed $20,000 from his mother so the project would be completed in time.
"He wanted every New Yorker to have a piece of this beautiful coast without having to have a mansion," said Bernadette Castro, the state Parks Commissioner. "Originally the park workers wore sailor uniforms, because Moses wanted people to feel like they were aboard their own ocean liner."
The sailor uniforms are gone, but many architectural details with a nautical motif -- the trash cans hidden in reproductions of shipboard air scoops and the boardwalk railings copied from cruise liners -- are still around. And in place of bygone features like the archery range, the roller skating rink, calisthenic classes and the adult play area where people rode grown-up-sized tricycles, new additions have been made. A children's playground opened three years ago. In August, the Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center for environmental education opens at West End 1. And just-completed beach volleyball courts, built not on the beach but back behind the miniature golf course, are to be augmented by locker rooms and bleachers in an effort to attract professional and amateur events, Ms. Castro said.
Despite contributions from the private sector, (local Saturn retailers gave $100,000 for the playground and the Ford Motor Company gave the same amount for the nature center) the state raised park fees this season. Admission to the pools went from 50 cents to $1 for children and from $1 to $2 for adults. The vehicle use fee went from $5 to $7 per car. Last year, the state spent more than $6.5 million on Jones Beach and took in about $4.3 million in revenue.
The nature center was built near a new nesting area of endangered piping plovers and will stress the importance of maintaining the fragile beach environment.
While the endangered birds are left undisturbed, other birds make their presence known. "We usually leave by four o'clock, because the sea gulls come and they're very aggressive," said one beachgoer. "They'll grab a sandwich right out of your hand."
The gulls have a lot to choose from. There are 11 permanent food service locations, including newly renovated concessions at Field 6 and the West Bathhouse, as well as 13 new portable kiosks on the boardwalk that sell drinks and ice cream. To help reduce the long lines that slowed service last summer, the concession staff has increased from 75 to 250, according to Patrick Liebler, a general manager with Delaware North Park Services, concessionaire for all the food outlets in the park. And so far, business is good.
"Our business was up 75 percent from last year's Memorial Day weekend," Mr. Liebler said. "We're excited for a big summer. If Memorial Day was any indication, we're expecting a home run."
On their way for some french fries at the central mall, Fidias Peralta and Nicole Lago, both students at Nassau Community College, said they had been coming to Jones Beach for years. "I remember playing baseball on the beach with my cousin when I was 5," Mr. Peralta said. "I used to love sliding into the sand."
"I like the boardwalk and the people," Ms. Lago said. "It's big. It's pretty. I enjoy it."
 
Boardwalks Don't Roll Up at Night
 
LONG after the umbrellas have been furled and the scent of cocoa butter has faded, Jones Beach comes alive again.
People flock to the two-mile boardwalk after the sun goes down to feel the ocean breezes, socialize with friends or just walk off a big meal. "If you've gone out to dinner and it's Saturday night, it's just a nice place to go for a walk," said Esther Drexler of Bethpage. "We watch the guys play paddleball and the dancing in the bandshell. I love going there."
Miniature golf, shuffleboard and volleyball are a few of the activities available under the lights. Beginning next Saturday until Labor Day, there is live music and dancing in the bandshell at the Central Mall from Tuesday to Sunday nights. Country line dancing, square dancing and traditional ballroom dancing are included in the program each week.
One of the biggest attractions under the stars are the shows at the Jones Beach Theater, originally built in the 1930's. It had an island stage.
"I remember going to see shows like 'Song of Norway' and they would use a big boat floating by in front of the audience," said Richard Berkenfeld of Bayside.
Years later, when acts like Guy Lombardo were replaced by Bon Jovi, the moat became a problem. "People kept diving into the water trying to swim to the stage," said the concert promoter Ron Delsener of Delsener Slater Entertainment. "We had to get a lifeguard."
The moat has been filled in since then and replaced by more seating. Last spring, a $22 million balcony was added, increasing the number of seats to 14,200. Mr. Delsener said that since 1983, his group has spent $30 million renovating the theater.
"It's my whole life," he said. "I love that it's on the water. It's easy to get in and out. As a summer venue, it's a real treat." DAVID WINZELBERG
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The water hasn't exactly warmed up yet, but the hardiest beachgoers are undeterred. Below, the "meat market" at Field 4. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times); Population densities can get far greater than this on some of the park's 2,413 acres. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 17)
 
Drawing/Map (Jody Emery/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (58%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (58%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BEACHES (92%); STATE PARKS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); SURFING (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); NATURISTS & NATURISM (77%); CHILDREN (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (75%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); FAMILY (69%); WALKING & JOGGING (61%); STEROIDS (60%); CYCLING (60%); BOARD GAMES (60%); 

PERSON: JONES BEACH (92%); JACK KASNER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



560 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 17; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Takes Second Place in School Budget Rejections

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to rejecting school budgets, Westchester is No. 2 -- second only to Erie County in the number of school districts where voters overturned spending plans this year.
In Erie, eight budgets were rejected while in Westchester voters turned down seven, said Mary Ellen Clark, a spokeswoman for the state Education Department's Division of Management Services. 
 How did many opponents of the budgets feel? "It's not that we're opposed to education, but as taxpayers we're starting to feel overwhelmed," said Bernard Mindich, a member of Citizens Organized for Responsible Education, a newly formed property owners' group in the Katonah-Lewisboro school district. "Like everything else in life, there's a limit."
The result has been a recurring ritual of spring for taxpayers and school officials in some districts. Voters go to the polls in May and either accept or reject a budget. School officials generally go back to the drawing board and decide either to resubmit the original budget, if it was rejected, or a scaled-down spending plan to a second vote; in many places, citizens' groups used to the period between the two votes to make their cases, both pro and con, on the proposals.
If the budget is defeated a second time, the district adopts what is known as a contingency budget or, as the state calls it, an austerity budget, which is based on state formulas.
In the first round of elections this spring, voters in Katonah-Lewisboro, New Rochelle, Mount Vernon, Valhalla, Greenburgh, Tuckahoe and North Salem turned down school spending plans. Out of the 35 districts in Westchester, only 27 hold budget votes. Some of the remaining districts were created by special acts and are special education districts, not required to hold budget votes. Another is the city of Yonkers, which according to its own laws, does not hold a public vote.
Of the 27 districts that do hold votes, only Eastchester and Greenburgh 7 failed to pass their budgets in 1998. The previous year, 1997, only Greenburgh 7 and Mount Pleasant failed to pass their budgets.
"Increasingly, property owners are asking themselves how long they can keep doing this, and their answer is, 'We can't anymore,' " said Donald McKenzie, the superintendent of the Putnam-Northern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services.
The pressure from voters may be to curb budgets, but at the same time, educators are struggling to balance growing demands from Albany for mandated school programs, decreasing state aid and growing student populations, said Stacy J. Holmes, the superintendent of the Southern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services.
In Westchester, the problem of property taxes versus school budgets is especially acute because taxes are already high and state aid is proportionately lower than in other counties. In determining aid to education, the state factors in the income of residents, as reported on tax returns and through statewide computerized income figures.
As of 1995, Westchester ranked second in the state to New York City in terms of personal income per capita, according to the most recent figures presented in the County Department of Planning's Databook. The average per capita income in the county in 1995 was $40,696.
As a result, the county's school districts have placed near the bottom of the list of those meriting state aid, and the onus of paying for public education in Westchester has fallen increasingly on property owners, who according to the state's calculations, can afford to shoulder it.
That's a conclusion that a lot of people question.
James Maisano, a Republican County Legislator representing parts of New Rochelle, Pelham and Pelham Manor, said that in New Rochelle, the state's policies were pitting parents of school-age children against the elderly. "This is an unhealthy situation forced upon us by a vacuum of leadership from the state," Mr. Maisano said. "It's time for all sides to lobby for reform in educational funding."
Linda E. Kelly, the superintendent of schools in New Rochelle, explained that in 1991, 25 percent of New Rochelle's educational budget was paid by the state, compared with 13 percent this year, and during that period the enrollment was up by 2,000 students to a total of 10,000.
In May, the district's $124.4 million budget was turned back. It was resubmitted on June 18 -- "as it was because there was no fat to cut," Ms. Kelly said -- and passed, signaling an 8.8 percent tax increase.
If, however, that budget had been rejected and a contingency budget had been adopted, taxes would still have risen 5.9 percent, said Kathy Hagendorf, a member of a citizens' group called Yes for Schools.
In Tuckahoe, a $12.8 million proposed school budget, which carried a 9.9 percent tax increase, was narrowly rejected by voters in May. As in New Rochelle, the Tuckahoe budget was also resubmitted in its original form this month and was approved, Board of Education President Leon Waskiewicz said.
He said it passed because of "a grass-roots effort on the part of the P.T.A. and the district to get out the vote." Mr. Waskiewicz said the cost of holding the second vote was about $2,000, which was paid by the Board of Education.
In the Katonah-Lewisboro Union Free School District, Mr. Mindich joined about 60 other citizens at a meeting of Core after voters in May spurned a $57.6 million spending plan and three other propositions related to the schools, which would have raised taxes 15 percent.
"The accumulated effect of tax increases over the years had people up in arms," he said.
Alfred B. Del Bello, a former state Lieutenant Governor and a Democratic County Executive in Westchester, said the citizens group, of which he is also a member, "wanted to send a message to the school board to get more efficient." He added, "If you compare the schools to businesses or to government, you can see the rate of the tax increases is not in line with the rest of the economy."
Rankling at any suggestion that the schools were profligate, Karen McCarthy, Katonah-Lewisboro's superintendent, said: "We are not providing kids with Cadillacs. This is just a Chevrolet kind of budget, and we should be getting a pat on the back, not criticism for it."
A revised budget of $56.8 million was approved in an extremely close vote -- 1,878 to 1,876 -- this month. But at the same time, voters turned down separate proposals to restore $582,000 in spending cuts and $512,000 for new school buses.
As is the case everywhere in the state, a second defeat would have meant that by law the district would have had to adopt an austerity budget -- in this case $55.9 million, which would have eliminated 25 teaching positions and 3 administrators and reduced spending for transportation and operations.
Used to budget failures, Greenburgh Central School's Board of Education adopted a contingency budget, based on state standards, and asked voters to approve three separate propositions, adding $430,000 in additional spending for buses, playground equipment and a school elevator.
All three were defeated, but the elevator will be built anyway, for $250,000, because it is mandated by the state. In large part the money will come from the state.
In Mount Vernon, Superintendent Ronald O. Ross cited "people who are just getting reactionary" as the reason that voters in his city turned back a $108.6 million budget with an 8.7 percent tax increase. Citizens will vote on a revised budget of $107.9 million on Tuesday.
Dr. Ross said, "I take full responsibility for not getting the message out on the budget." He explained that after the vote, the Board of Education revised the budget before returning it to the voters for a second vote.
After North Salem's school budget was defeated, the Board adopted a $20.1 million contingency budget, cutting $475,842 from its original plan. On Monday, voters approved a special allotment of $188,000 for buses and vans.
And in Valhalla, a revised $18.5 million budget -- down $299,867 from the original proposal -- was finally accepted by voters earlier this month.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: New Rochelle High School is the site for another vote on the spending plan. At Albert Leonard Middle School in New Rochelle, people line up to get ready to vote on the budget. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ERIE, PA, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN WESTCHESTER BOARD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN WESTCHESTER BOARD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ERIE, PA, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (94%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



561 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 15; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: First a Hatchery, Now Hope for Oysters

BYLINE: By SAM LIBBY

 BODY:
THE state is establishing a shellfish hatchery in the Noank section of Groton in an attempt to save Connecticut's indigenous stocks of oysters and an economically significant industry.
Two parasites, harmful to oysters but not to humans, have virtually destroyed Chesapeake Bay's oyster industry and have infected Connecticut's most productive oyster grounds, reducing the catch and harming the state's $50 million industry. The state hopes the hatchery can produce oysters resistant to the parasites 
 "The initial focus of the hatchery will be on the production of oyster seed that are disease resistant," said John H. Volk, director of the State Department of Agriculture's Bureau of Aquaculture. "The oyster seed will be made available to municipal shellfish commissions and small oyster industries that have been hard hit by the devastation of the MSX and Dermo oyster parasites."
The hatchery will breed and grow oysters that have demonstrated resistance to the two parasites and that have evolved to thrive in the particular conditions of the state's different estuaries and inshore waters that produce natural growths of oysters, Mr. Volk said.
Dermo is caused by a single-cell protozoan called Perkinsus marinus and is the slower acting of the two, taking up to three years to kill an infected oyster. Its name was derived from a fungus previously thought to be the cause of the oyster disease. MSX (for multinucleated sphere X), caused by the protozoan Haplosporidium nelsoni, kills within three to six weeks. Because oysters take three to five years to reach marketable size, either parasite can wipe out the market.
"A useful strain of oysters must not only be resistant, but locally adaptable," said James Markow, an owner of Aeros Cultured Oyster Company. The company operates a shellfish hatchery in Shirley, N.Y., and has worked with the Groton Shellfish Commission for the past seven years on a variety of oyster propagation projects.
"Something that might work in one place, all year might not work there the next year," Mr. Markow said. "With aquaculture you've got to always adjust."
MSX was first detected in Long Island Sound in 1985. Production fell from over 243,000 bushels in 1984 to 69,721 bushels in 1987, says Dr. Inke Sunila, a state shellfish pathologist.
In 1992, MSX returned to Long Island Sound. In that year, about 900,000 bushels of oysters were harvested in Connecticut waters with a wholesale value of about $42 million. By 1994 only about 600,000 bushels of oysters were harvested in state waters with a wholesale value of about $32 million.
In 1996 Dermo spread to Long Island Sound, but no known mortality associated with Dermo has occurred in Long Island Sound, Dr. Sunila said.
At the state hatchery, oysters will be grown from microscopic swimming larvae to the size of a pin head by feeding them a special blend of marine algae, said Karen Rivara, president and an owner of Aero. They are then moved to an oyster nursery where they are placed in nutrient-rich water pumped from the adjacent estuary.
The juvenile oysters are held in mesh-bottomed containers that protect them and provide a constant flow of water. When large enough, the oysters are placed in cages, which resemble lobster pots, and placed in the waters of Fishers Island Sound, where they will continue to grow until ready for market.
Aero will contribute $65,000 in nursery and other equipment and also the use of the George Billo, a 1905 oyster harvest boat. Under its contract with the Groton Shellfish Commission, Aero will then have access to about half the seed oysters that the hatchery produces in its first year (about 2 1/2 million seeds).
The plan for the hatchery's first year of aquaculture calls for the production of five million seed oysters. About 1 1/2 million of the oyster seeds will be turned over to the Groton Shellfish Commission, which conceived and is implementing the plan for the hatchery. The shellfish commission will run the hatchery in cooperation with the aquaculture division and private businesses and it will use the oyster seeds for recreational oyster programs. One million seeds will be sold to other commercial oyster companies.
The hatchery plan calls for the formation of new partnerships with other private shellfish businesses, other municipal shellfish commissions and marine educational and vocational agencies, said the Groton Shellfish Commissioner Neil Brown. The plan calls for the inclusion of businesses, educational programs, and shellfish commissions that can benefit from the association with the hatchery and can, in turn, benefit the hatchery, Mr. Brown said.
"Finding a solution to Dermo and MSX will not be a one-shot deal," said Mr. Markow. "These parasites will come back in slightly different form. It will not be as much of a problem in Long Island Sound as it is in the Chesapeake, because Long Island Sound has great flushing and colder water.
"It takes two to three years to grow an oyster to market size the old-fashioned way," Mr. Markow added. "Along comes a disease that wipes you out just as you're ready to harvest. With a hatchery/nursery we figure we can get them out in one and a half years. The faster you grow out, not only is it faster to market, but you're cutting your exposure to risk."
The long-term mission of the hatchery will be to assist the state's existing aquaculture businesses and help incubate new aquaculture businesses just as the state Agricultural Experiment Station assists and incubates Connecticut agricultural businesses, Mr. Volk said.
"An important mission of the hatchery will be education and training," said Stephen Jones, a maritime writer and Groton Shellfish Commissioner. "Students from the Regional Vocational Aquaculture School in Bridgeport, the Sound School in New Haven, and Project Oceanology will work in all parts of the hatchery operation," said Mr. Jones, a professor at UConn and the hatchery's education coordinator.
"The intent of the education and training program will be to give these young people the experience and ability to establish new aquaculture businesses or to find employment in existing aquaculture businesses."
After the hatchery fulfills its first mission of producing stocks of MSX and Dermo resistant oysters, it will be used for the cultivation of other shellfish stocks such as scallops, Mr. Volk said.
In the 19th century, scallops were harvested by recreational and commercial shell fishermen off Stonington, Clinton Harbor, and in the Niantic River. Scallops became scarce and have just been re-introduced in Clinton Harbor. Although there is limited recreational scalloping in the Niantic River, commercial scalloping no longer exists in Connecticut.
The idea of the hatchery began when the Groton Shellfish Commissioner, Roger Sherman, and the Commission chairman, Ronald Chappell, learned that the two-storied, brick building near the mouth of the Mystic River was about to be sold. The building had been used by UConn as a research laboratory focused on lobsters and blue fish from 1955 until 1998, when a new complex was built for the university's maritime expansion program at Avery Point Campus.
The brick building had been built as an engine factory at the turn of the century when Noank was still a fishing and ship-building village. Later, it housed a velvet-making mill. Following the hurricane of 1938, it replaced the state lobster hatchery, which had been situated about half a mile down the Mystic River and had been washed away by the storm, Mr. Jones said.
The thing that is unusual about the Groton Shellfish Commission, said Mr. Volk, is the institutional memory of its members. Many of the shellfish commissioners are watermen who are retired from private industry. They have the experience of their professions as well as the continuity of experience from their many years as shellfish commissioners, he said.
UConn initially wanted $500,000 to transfer ownership of the property to the state aquaculture division. But State Representative Lenny Winkler, a Republican of Groton, worked with Thomas Q. Callahan, an associate vice president at UConn, and the State Department of Agriculture Commissioner Shirley C. Ferris, who is also a UConn trustee, to agree to transfer the property to the state aquaculture division for free. UConn's compensation has yet to be determined, Mr. Winkler said.
"Right now all hatchery shellfish stocks are coming from out-of-state," Mr. Winkler said. "There's no need for this. There was no need to sell the property and there was no need for one state agency to pay another state agency to do something so beneficial."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Groton Shellfish Commission is helping establish an oyster hatchery in Groton. Above, commission members and others on a dock in Groton. At left, James Markow and Artie Valdez pull up an oyster rack. Bottom, crabs, which feed on baby oysters, being removed and, inset, young oysters. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: GROTON SHELLFISH COMMISSION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROTON SHELLFISH COMMISSION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AQUACULTURE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SHELLFISH FARMING (90%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (89%); MOLDS & FUNGI (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); PATHOLOGY (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: JAMES MARKOW (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



562 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Shaker Simplicity Comes to Wilton

BYLINE: By ALBERTA EISEMAN

 BODY:
THE simple, graceful lines of Shaker furniture holds great appeal for the contemporary eye. Chairs, tables, cabinets, desks and household objects made in the 19th century by members of this unique communal sect fetch handsome prices at auctions and antique shows and continue to influence designers and craftsmen.
Yet the men and women who fashioned these prized objects were not inspired by ideals of beauty or of style. They were following the principles of their church, which called for order, simplicity and the avoidance of ornamentation. 
 "All work done, or things made in the Church for their own use, ought to be faithfully and well done but plain and without superfluity," wrote Father Joseph Meacham of Enfield, the first American-born Shaker.
The relationship between the religious tenets of the Shakers and the products of their temporal labors is examined in the exhibition, "Hands to Work, Hearts to God; The Shakers and the World Around Them," now at the Betts-Sturges-Blackmar House in Wilton. Presented by the Wilton Historical Society and the Hancock Shaker Village, a museum in Pittsfield, Mass., the show introduces a comprehensive view of Shaker life and features objects drawn from the museum.
"What I realized as I pursued my interest in the Shakers as a cultural group was that people who were attracted to joining the Shakers came from rural New England communities that were very much like the ones in our area," said Marilyn Gould, director of the Wilton Historical Society. "Then I was eager to find out what relationship there might be between the goods people produced once they became Shakers and what was being made elsewhere at that time.
"What I found out was that the Shakers started out with the same basic forms that everyone was using -- the chairs, the candlestands, the cases of drawers," she said. "But then their desire to simplify took over. Take the candlestand, for example. In the worldly form, the shaft would be elaborately turned and shaped, as would the legs, whereas the Shakers would shape a more simply and more gracefully turned shaft."
The principles and traditions that governed Shaker life were brought to the American colonies in 1774 from England by a small group of Shakers, who then traveled throughout the colonies as missionaries, led by their mentor, "Mother" Ann Lee. By the mid-19th century, at the peak of the movement, there were 6,000 Shakers and they formed 18 communal villages stretching from Maine to Kentucky.
Their aim was to devote their lives to God and to create a "heaven on earth." Although their true name was the United Society of Believers in Christ's Second Appearance, they were called Shakers because of the religious dances they performed in their meetinghouses.
They built their communities by hand, meetinghouse first, with men and women assigned to different tasks and living separately, as celibate Brothers and Sisters. Married couples who joined the Shakers gave up their relationship and lived in communal families, consisting of as many as 100 men and women.
They raised their own food, made their clothing, produced medicines and developed trades like chair manufacturing and seed production.
The exhibition, which was supported by a grant from the Connecticut Humanities Council with the financial assistance of the Wilton Bank, emphasizes the work produced by the communities of Hancock and Enfield, Conn., the only Shaker village in this state.
The introductory room, where the history and beliefs of the Shakers are shown, features a 12-foot dining table set for eight. The men would sit on one side, the women on the other, with large ironstone platters set in the center, so all could help themselves without breaking the ordained mealtime silence.
The Brethren's Room displays a meetinghouse bench made in New Hampshire in 1830, a graceful rocking chair and two candlestands, one in the snake-foot and one in the spider-foot style -- two of the finest pieces in the show, Ms. Gould said.
"Each piece is totally simple and devoid of decoration but incredibly elegant," Mrs. Gould said. "They took basic furniture forms from "the world" -- their term for nonbelievers -- and then refined them" she continued. "When you consider how much furniture they had to produce to furnish their dwelling houses, I don't know how they did it."
The men's "retiring rooms" were usually built for four or six people and the massive case of drawers on display was no doubt meant to serve them all. Standing some eight feet tall, it is composed of eight large drawers topped by four smaller ones, with plain corners and base and simple wooden pulls.
Woodworking was considered men's work, and that included the now classic oval nesting boxes dubbed by Mrs. Gould "the Tupperware of the day." Displayed in a range of colors -- blue, brown, red or tan -- they were designed for storing pantry goods and were among the Shakers' most popular sale items.
Shaker women made most of the clothing for the community, as well as cooking, cleaning, working in the dairy and poultry house and taking care of the elderly and the sick in the Nurse Shop. After the mid-19th century, as male membership decreased, the women played an increasingly important role in the community's economic ventures, even making sales trips to market their goods.
They developed new products, such as a special wrinkle-resistant fabric, and distinctive clothing styles, like the hooded cloak with shoulder cape that is prominently exhibited alongside a simple, elegant go-to-meeting dress with white kerchief. The red wool "Dorothy Cloak," named for Sister Dorothy Durgin who designed it, became so popular among ladies of fashion that it was worn by the wife of President Cleveland at his second inauguration.
By the end of the 19th century, women assumed responsibility for the chair business, one of the most successful Shaker ventures. The chairs, some of which are on display in a range of sizes, could be ordered with woven, taped or upholstered seats and backs.
The concluding section of the show compares traditional New England styles of furniture like candlestands, cases of drawers, ladder back chairs, wash stands and tables with the Shaker furniture and analyzes the similarities and the differences between them.
Mrs. Gould planned the show in conjunction with the society's curator, Susan Gunn, while Hancock Shaker Village was represented by Sharon Duane Koomler, the show's guest curator, and her assistant, Deborah Caiola.
"Hands to Work, Hearts to God" will be on view at the Betts-Sturges-Blackmar House, 224 Danbury Road, Wilton, until Sept. 30. Exhibition hours are Monday through Thursday, 12 to 4 p.m., Sunday, 1 to 4. Admission: $5 for adults, $3 for seniors and members of the historical society, free for children under 12. For information about special events including talks, demonstrations and a special tour of Hancock Shaker Village, call (203) 762-7257.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the Shaker work on display in the "Hands to Work, Hearts to God; The Shakers and the World Around Them" exhibition in Wilton. (Wilton Historical Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (76%); MAINE, USA (55%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: WILTON BANK (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); ENGLAND (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (76%); MAINE, USA (55%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (90%); HISTORY (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%); 

PERSON: MARILYN GOULD (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



563 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: They Are to Rise, at Last, on 42d St. Between 11th and 12th;
The 15-Year Story Of 2 40-Story Towers

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
How does a developer measure time, when time just seems to stretch on and on and on?
"Well, I have six grandchildren I did not have when I bought the property," said Larry Silverstein, whose River Place -- a monumental rental and retail project on a full block of West 42d Street at the Hudson River -- is just now beginning to rise, after 15 years of waiting. 
 Mr. Silverstein, now 68, has secured a $140 million construction loan and has already finished the foundation for the first of his two 900,000-square-foot, glassed-in 40-story towers, which -- running counter to the emphasis on family-sized apartments in other locations -- will contain 921 smaller apartments: studios, one- and two-bedroom units. The first building, he said, is to be ready by the fall of 2000, and the second by 2004 -- exactly 20 years after he started.
Looking back, it is a scenario of the pitfalls and frustrations of Manhattan development.
Mr. Silverstein bought the site, bounded by 41st and 42d Streets and 11th and 12th Avenues, in 1984. When he bought it, the site was zoned for single-story industrial use. Mr. Silverstein needed 10 times that. By the time he got the zoning, it was 1989. Although the stock market had suffered its sharp skid two years before, the real estate market was still soaring. Mr. Silverstein figured he'd be digging in a few weeks.
But the day he got the zoning, the city was sued over the change, Mr. Silverstein said, grimacing at the memory. Mr. Silverstein said he tried to negotiate, but it was fruitless. By the time the dust cleared -- the developer won -- it was 1992. The real-estate recession had arrived in all its fury, and there was no money to borrow.
"The market was down the tubes and I thought I would die," said Mr. Silverstein, who built 7 World Trade Center, with its 2 million square feet of offices, and who owns 140 Broadway, with 1.2 million square feet of offices.
People suggested he sell his block. "Who would buy it?" he replied.
And so, he continued, he "sat there and crunched numbers and gnashed teeth and kept saying the nightmare will end, the sun will rise again."
But even when the real estate market began its recovery, the nightmare continued. By 1995, things were looking good: Mr. Silverstein had hired Costas Kondylis, the well-known designer of residential towers, to plan his towers, his health club and his tennis courts overlooking the river.
In 1997, he said, he was ready to "put the shovel in the ground," when word came down from Gov. George E. Pataki's office: Stop.
The Governor's office was promoting the site for expansion of the Javits Center. Finally, after a year, the word came down: Build the towers. It took six months to arrange another loan; the last 18-month delay cost him $10 million, Mr. Silverstein said. "But here I am, at last, building my towers," the developer said. "I guess you'd call it a saga." TRACIE ROZHON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Rendering of River Place, two 900,000-square-foot rentals. (Z. S. Tesla)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RETAILERS (72%); GOVERNORS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); 

PERSON: SILVERSTEIN, LARRY; ROZHON, TRACIE LARRY SILVERSTEIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



564 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3181 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Spur A Volume Business In Refurbishing And Selling Homes;
Buyers get benefit of easier terms, but some charge deception.

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
SO far so good," said Sandra Kingston, evaluating her five months of experience as a first-time homeowner.
Ms. Kingston, a clerical worker in her 40's who works for Kings County Hospital, was able to buy a one-family house for $219,000 in the St. Albans section of Queens last January, making a 5 percent down payment and getting a 30-year fixed-rate 7.5 percent mortgage insured by the Federal Housing Administration. 
 "I'm cutting it very close, to the borderline of affordability, but my utility bills aren't as high as they used to be," Ms. Kingston said.
The previous resident, however, had gone over that borderline of affordability, and had lost the house in a foreclosure proceeding. Ms. Kingston bought it from a private company that acquired it at auction from a lender, rehabilitated it at a cost it said came to $30,000, and resold it to her.
With banks often reluctant to make the investment in time and money necessary to recover the full potential value of a foreclosed property, which can be a particularly trying process in New York City, private companies have emerged to do this work. Now they are doing it on a volume basis -- and sometimes encountering a backlash from buyers who feel they were misled into purchasing a house with more problems than they had bargained for.
The concept of buying, upgrading and reselling foreclosed housing is hardly new. Usually the job is done by local contractors or brokers, or people planning to live in the house. Few companies have attempted to carry it forward on a volume basis in the city, buying property even while former owners or renters are still in occupancy. But with the emphasis in Federal housing policy on strengthening home ownership opportunities across a wide income spectrum, the necessary home mortgage financing for new buyers is available, and entrepreneurs see an opportunity.
The seller to Ms. Kingston, Better Homes Depot Inc., is a two-year-old company with a storefront office on Rockaway Boulevard in the Ozone Park section of Queens. Better Homes Depot says it sold 518 houses last year, about 20 in Nassau but the rest in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx. It expects to sell more than 600 houses this year. The company says that three-quarters of its sales were of homes that it bought in foreclosure sales.
Another practitioner is Keith Kantrowitz, president of Best Express Inc., based in Great Neck, N.Y., and also president of Power Express, a mortgage-banking company. In 1978 Mr. Kantrowitz started representing banks in selling off their inventory of foreclosed homes. He established his own business in 1981.
"If anyone had told me 20 years ago that I would own $16 million in inventory today I would have said they're nuts," Mr. Kantrowitz said. The figure represents what Best Express paid for the 320 houses it currently owns, he said. The company expects to sell 420 houses this year in New York City and Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties.
The prospect of maintaining an adequate inventory of houses to resell in the years ahead looks promising to these companies. One reason is that easier access to credit in the 90's has made it possible for less creditworthy purchasers to buy a house. It is also easier for homeowners to borrow money, using their home as security for the loan. Often the purpose is to relieve other financial problems. The ongoing problems of these borrowers have contributed disproportionately to the nation's growing foreclosure rate.
Home ownership reached a record 66.3 percent of American households last year, up from 65.4 percent only two years earlier. Simultaneously, the national foreclosure rate hit 0.36 percent last year, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, up from 0.34 percent two years earlier, an unusually high figure for a period of low unemployment.
But with housing credit easily available, there is no shortage of companies seeking to get consumers to use it. Only last week, Delta Funding Corporation, of Woodbury, L.I., agreed to a settlement to avoid a lawsuit planned by State Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer over practices that allegedly enticed minority homeowners into borrowing more money than they could repay.
In Queens, Jamaica Housing Improvement Inc., a nonprofit company that assists moderate-income owners, hears in anguished detail of the problems some borrowers have. Jamaica Housing Improvement is part of NeighborWorks, a national network of community organizations chartered by the federally chartered Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, in Washington. The Queens group serves South Jamaica, South Ozone Park, St. Albans, Hollis and Springfield Gardens.
Over the last year, 74 complaints have been lodged by homeowners or home buyers, said Storm Russell, executive director. Some of the complaints have involved defects in newly purchased homes, but most concern home-improvement work or aggressive or deceptive practices by financial firms, brokers, salespeople, contractors, lawyers or appraisers, Ms. Russell said.
"Sometimes people are encouraged to borrow too much, and sometimes the homeowner's true income is misrepresented in order to qualify them for the loan," she said. "People often think that when a house is appraised, that that is its true value. They don't hire inspectors to find out whether they're going to need more money. They move in and almost immediately the roof leaks."
"If anyone wants money for anything," Ms. Russell added, "there is always someone out there who will give it to you."
Overextended homeowners are likely to show up first among the "subprime" borrowers. Nationally, one in every five to six loans that were made to buy a house last year was a subprime loan, made at higher-than-normal interest rates and often made to less-creditworthy home buyers, according to David Olson, president of David Olson Research Company in Columbia, Md. Subprime loans, also provided for home improvement work and for owners seeking additional financing on their house, could spell more-than-usual housing trouble in an economic downturn.
In general, the ratio of people's debt to the value of their house has risen over the last few years, Mr. Olson said, so that if the borrower's income diminishes it will be less likely that payments will continue on the loan. Since in a recession home values typically decline, people with high loan-to-value ratio mortgages can find themselves with more housing debt than their house is worth.
All these factors lead some entrepreneurs to foresee a longterm business in buying, upgrading and reselling distressed homes before they fall into a lender's hands. "We foresee that the leniency in lending practices over the last few years will provide us with an abundance of property to resell for the next 5 to 10 years," said Eric Fessler, president of Better Homes Depot.
MANY people have taken loans of as much of 125 percent of the true value of their house, he said, and their consequent lack of an economic stake in the house may provide them with little incentive to avoid delinquency in mortgage payments during a period of economic stress.
On the positive side, the houses themselves, once upgraded, may emerge as a buying opportunity in the marketplace. Certainly Marc and Ayana Robinson in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, and Kirk and Sandra Leon in Crown Heights, have seen it that way. Both bought houses from Better Homes Depot, whose buyers typically have incomes in the range of $50,000 to $80,000 a year, the company says.
Mr. Robinson, 27, an Adelphi University graduate, is a computer specialist with I.B.M. His wife, 25, went to Rutgers University, worked for an insurance company and now goes full time to New York Law School. Married in January, they bought a newly rehabilitated four-family house last October for about $300,000 on Rockaway Parkway in what Mr. Robinson said was one of the most desirable sections of Brownsville, near the Crown Heights line.
They were so pleased with this investment that in March they bought another four-family around the corner on East 92d Street, from the same seller at about the same price. They have been able to rent out seven apartments in the two houses for $600 to $900 a month each, providing income that offsets their mortgage payments.
"As in any construction project you have to supervise the work closely," Mr. Robinson said. "We got ceramic tile floors, all new bathrooms, a finished basement with a laundry room. The location is very good -- five minutes from a subway." The couple shopped for houses over eight months, mainly in Brooklyn, before they bought.
The two-family house that Kirk and Sandra Leon bought on Brooklyn Avenue, paying in the high $200,000's, is a classic Crown Heights brownstone, set amid a strip of well-maintained homes a block from St. Gregory's Roman Catholic Church. A renter was still living in a garden-floor apartment when the Leons first saw the house last winter, Mrs. Leon said.
When the Leons moved in in May the parlor-floor bathroom had been replaced and there had been plumbing and wiring upgrades. They did not hire their own inspector, but were content to rely on the inspection done for the lender.
"I was amazed that it had a second staircase directly to the kitchen," said Mr. Leon, a security officer in the New York City hospital system who was encountered at the house one day in May as he was moving in. The Leons moved to Brooklyn from the Grand Concourse in the Bronx.
Mrs. Leon, an administrator with the city's Human Resources Administration, said that she expected no trouble in being able to afford the house. She has no plan to rent out its apartment, which a family member may use. "They say the first year of ownership is the hardest," she said.
But not all buyers have been satisfied.
A series of reports broadcast on UPN-9, WWOR-TV, between February and June highlighted the problems of buyers who had purchased homes from real estate sales companies, including Better Homes Depot. The most common complaint was the discovery of plumbing, roofing and other housing defects soon after moving in. Three persons interviewed on the programs said they were encouraged to falsify their true income on a mortgage document.
One buyer, Keith Robinson, 40, said in a telephone interview a few days ago that he wasn't in his house on East 48th Street in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, for more than a few weeks before he experienced a leaky roof and clogged drains.
Mr. Robinson, a deliveryman for a pharmacy whose wife is a social worker, said that to save money he bought the house in as-is condition, for $183,000. Some improvement work had been done on the house, "but to tell the truth I didn't know what they did, and I didn't have it inspected." But he closed anyway, using legal services provided by the seller. The house needs $10,000 more in repair work, he said, and he cannot afford it.
More than a dozen complaints have been received by the city's Department of Consumer Affairs about Better Homes Depot's sales practices, said Commissioner Jules Polonetsky, mainly from owners who say they closed with a promise from the company that work would be done, and that it was either not done or improperly done. "We are looking into whether there is a pattern of deceptive trade practices," Commissioner Polonetsky said.
Mr. Fessler said he met with Consumer Affairs officials three months ago about these complaints. About half of them have since been withdrawn, he said, and the others are in dispute. "But we've closed over 1,000 transactions," he said, asserting that the percentage of dissatisfied buyers is remarkably low.
The Better Homes Depot business represents a new try in life for the 39-year-old Mr. Fessler. A Long Island native who attended Hofstra College, he became a loan officer for Kadilac Funding Ltd., then a mortgage company in Flushing, Queens, in 1980 and its president in 1986 at the age of 26. But he said he was convicted of income-tax evasion in 1992 over a failure to report $165,000 in commissions received for placing mortgages and title insurance. He served a nine-month sentence at Allenwood Federal Prison in Pennsylvania, until August 1993.
Subsequently he worked for Madison Resources Ltd., a licensed finance company in Lake Success, N.Y., that makes loans for home improvements. Madison Home Equities, a licensed mortgage banking company under the same ownership, is the main lending source for Better Homes Depot buyers. It has provided Better Homes Depot with an $8 million line of credit to facilitate its purchase-and-resales program.
"Two years ago mortgage bankers were not typically giving a line of credit to investors," said Nadine Malone, president of both lending companies. "But now a lot of people are doing it because there are so many foreclosures and the houses need repairs before they can be resold." Last year Better Homes Depot accounted for about 20 percent of the mortgages Madison Equities originated, Ms. Malone said.
On a recent Saturday morning at the Ozone Park office of Better Homes Depot, the waiting room was filled with people awaiting appointments with salespeople. The income-qualified customer who is ready to buy is escorted to a room to discuss the specifics, including the price, with Mr. Fessler or Steve Cymbrowitz, the office manager. About 30 percent of the customers will ultimately prove unqualified for a mortgage, Mr. Fessler said.
A status board in a rear room shows how various sales teams are progressing in moving the inventory. Salesmen earn a flat commission of $3,000 a house after a closing, regardless of the sale price, Mr. Fessler said. The star salesman is Glen John, a residential broker with a serious, calm manner who has been selling homes for 18 years. He said he had sold 240 houses in the last 12 months, mainly in Brooklyn and Queens. The average price for a one-family was $190,000, and for a two-family it was $249,000, he said.
Overseeing the operation is Mr. Fessler himself, who must deal with 40 salespeople and assistants, working for the company as independent contractors fulltime, as well 25 independent contracting companies working fulltime to rehabilitate Better Homes Depot houses. Ten on-staff lawyers handle landlord-tenant and contract work. Eight "buyers" working on a commission basis work full time to acquire properties.
Can one individual manage these disparate activities? "It's not easy," Mr. Fessler said.
A prominent part of the company's sales pitch is that it will absorb closing costs up to 6 percent of the selling price. "Most of our buyers would be unable to buy if they had to pay their own closing costs," Mr. Fessler said. These costs cover the city's mortgage recording tax -- 1.75 percent of the mortgage amount in the boroughs outside Manhattan -- the title search, the appraisal fee and other fees and charges.
At the closing, buyers are asked to sign a form saying that they are satisfied with the house. A pre-closing inspection is required by the lender for its protection, but only about 60 percent of buyers take the precaution of getting their own inspection, Mr. Fessler said. "We prefer that they get their own, but it's their choice," he said.
At Best Express, Mr. Kantrowitz said that he had created his company because banks, left with foreclosed houses, could not handle the disposition process. "The banks can't control the contractors, and they can't handle evictions," he said. His new buyers typically have incomes of $60,000 to $90,000, and get their mortgages through Power Express, his mortgage company.
As Mr. Kantrowitz sees it, one of the principal causes of foreclosures in New York City has been an owner's inability to collect rent from a tenant in a two-family house. The owner cannot afford the tedious and expensive housing-court procedure, and must abandon his house or sell at a distressed price, he said.
Another problem is that the owner has borrowed excessively on a credit card, used the home as collateral to consolidate and ostensibly reduce debt payments, but then emerged in a worsened predicament when the new loan goes into default. "We buy many houses before they go under the foreclosure hammer," said Mr. Kantrowitz.
Best Express, with 50 sales agents and a support staff of 25, buys and sells about 300 houses a year, he said. Before rehabilitation tenants are evicted. "To do a proper renovation the house has to be empty," Mr. Kantrowitz said. "And if people are putting their life savings into a house, they should have the choice of who their tenant is."
Figures assembled by the Long Island Housing Partnership, a nonprofit development company based in Hauppauge, N.Y., show that the number of houses in Nassau and Suffolk County with mortgage delinquencies has grown, reaching 2,136 in Suffolk County last year and 1,580 in Nassau County. Nine percent of the Suffolk total came from Brentwood, and 6 percent came from Central Islip. In Nassau, Hempstead, Elmont and Freeport had the highest totals.
OF all the 16 million home mortgage loans originated last year, Federal data indicate, about half were for the refinancing of an existing mortgage rather than for the purchase of a new home. And according to data from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the nation's largest providers of mortgage funds, about half the refinancings were aimed at raising cash rather than paying off housing debt.
Hoping to avoid problems with the loans it has insured, the Federal Housing Administration, which is an agency of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, initiated a computer-aided "credit watch" in 1995 to identify mortgage originators whose default rate is above normal. It is the F.H.A.-insured portion of outstanding mortgage loans that has shown the sharpest gain in foreclosures recently, rising to 0.65 percent last year from 0.58 percent two years earlier.
In April HUD said that it would drop as accredited lenders those with a default record at least triple the average within a given metropolitan area. Fifty lenders across the country received termination notices in a letter that went out June 1, the department said, but it declined to identify any of them since they still have the right to appeal. Neither Madison Home Equities nor Power Express received such a notice, the companies said.
Concerned about the risks for first-time urban buyers, nonprofit organizations emphasize the importance of buyer education. They generally applaud the effort to increase ownership opportunities in moderate-income neighborhoods, but they worry about excessive loans and buyer ignorance.
Francine C. Justa, executive director of Neighborhood Housing Services of New York City, said that the nonprofit company was giving home-ownership training courses to about 2,000 families a year across the city.
"Many of the buyers in New York City are former renters," Ms. Justa said. "We started our training courses after I heard about a buyer who moved into a home and wanted to know when someone was coming around to cut the grass."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kirk and Sandra Leon, above, paid in the high $200,000's for their two-family Crown Heights brownstone on Brooklyn Avenue after it had been upgraded. Five-bedroom house, left, at 50 Richmond Street in Cypress Hills, Brooklyn, sold for $209,000 after $30,000 in repairs. (Photographs by Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times); Storm Russell, executive director of Jamaica Housing Improvement, part of the national NeighborWorks Network of community organizations, said, "Sometimes people are encouraged to borrow too much." (Richard Lee for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The house at 91-04 107th Avenue in the Ozone Park section of Queens is one of many formerly foreclosed properties sold to buyers in Brooklyn and Queens. The four-bedroom residence was sold in "as is" condition for $219,000. (Photographs by Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EXPR (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (81%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAMAICA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: EXPRESS INC (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAMAICA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; FORECLOSURES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION FORECLOSURE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (76%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); RETAILERS (61%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S SANDRA KINGSTON (79%); KEITH KANTROWITZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



565 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Julien J. Studley;
Finding a Way to Figure Out the Real Cost of Leases

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
IN the late 1980's Julien J. Studley, the chairman of the brokerage firm that bears his name, noticed an unusual development: even though demand for office space was weak and landlords were clamoring for tenants, the asking rents for properties kept rising. "For two years the market fell, but rents seemed to keep increasing," he said.
But the seeming paradox was easily explained. Although the asking rent figures were bumping up, building owners were giving larger and larger concessions packages -- periods of free rent and contributions to the cost of interior construction -- to attract tenants. 
 The result was that the effective rent that tenants were paying was declining -- as it should in a soft market.
But some owners, Mr. Studley said, had an interest in maintaining the fiction that the market was still strong and rents increasing so that they could complete financing arrangements that let them pull most or all of their investment out of a property. "A lot of lenders who did not look closely enough at these deals ended up taking back the buildings" when owners could not cover their debt payments, Mr. Studley said.
Something of a reverse happens in rising markets. Landlords typically prefer to shrink the concessions package, rather then scare tenants off with big increases in asking rent, although the effective rents reflect the shift in the supply-demand equation.
But while the asking rent figure does not tell the whole story, Mr. Studley said, it is the only easily available number in a highly fragmented and competitive business. Real estate has no equivalent of a stock market, where prices are determined continuously in an open market and are widely disseminated to all that are interested.
So, Mr. Studley said, he decided to compile what he called an effective rent index, one that would reflect concessions packages as well as expenses that tenants incur, such as the cost of electricity. The idea was to give a clearer year-to-year comparison of what was happening to rents and to provide an easy comparison between the central business districts in a dozen major cities.
The report found that midtown Manhattan is the most expensive market in the country for tenants, but that high costs hold down landlords' income. Rents for tenants in downtown Manhattan and New Jersey are close, but again higher costs in New York mean landlords there keep a lower portion of their rents than do building owners in New Jersey.
Although others may challenge his results and methodology, the Studley effective rent report represents an interesting attempt to cut through the complexity and clutter that make it hard to get a clear picture of what is happening in important commercial real estate markets. "The only information that's available is asking rents," Mr. Studley said. "Now you can take the asking rent and apply a discount, but the discount changes, so that is unreliable as well. In some market conditions, the taking rent exceeds the asking rent." That means that the demand for space in certain locations is so great that tenants bid the rent above what the landlord originally asked.
Although Mr. Studley's firm usually represents tenants, he said it is important to understand what a landlord actually has in his pocket after paying operating expenses, taxes on a property, concessions and commissions, but before debt service. Because financial structures are complex and vary from property to property, they would make year-to-year and city-to-city comparisons difficult and unreliable.
Also excluded is the so-called loss factor, the difference between the amount of space a tenant is paying for under the lease and the amount he can actually use. This is part of the twilight zone of real estate, in which steel and concrete buildings change in size as they are remeasured. "Buildings in New York grow larger as they age -- like people," Mr. Studley observed.
The result of this figuring leads to two separate indexes, the tenant effective rent and the landlord effective rent. The tenant effective rent is the estimate by the Studley firm of what a tenant actually pays after concessions are amortized over the length of the lease.
The landlord effective rent is the estimate of what a building owner has after paying the costs, although some costs, like electrical power, are passed on to the tenant. "We are developing a figure for a free and clear cash flow," said Mark Stewart, a managing director at the Studley company who compiles the report.
Because owning property is largely a fixed-cost operation, seemingly modest increases in rental income, which is customarily stated in dollars per square foot per year, can produce big changes in the owner's income. "If you have a $32 a square foot, operating expenses, taxes and so forth will typically consume $26 a foot, leaving the owner with $6 a foot in income," Mr. Studley said. "But if the rent increases to $38 a foot, he doubles his income."
According to the Studley company's figures, the landlord effective rent in downtown Manhattan increased from a slender $8.69 a square foot to $13.76 a square foot from the end of 1997 to the end of 1998. This increase was caused both because the tenant effective rents increased somewhat -- from $25.51 a square foot to $31.32 a square foot -- and because concessions decreased, from $77 a square foot in 1997 to $60 a square foot the following year. The concessions are a one-time expense to the landlord and are amortized over an assumed 10-year lease in making the calculations.
Meanwhile, operating costs and taxes were rising, so that landlords' cash flow rose $5.07 a square foot, even though the tenants' effective rent had increased $5.81 a square foot.
The story in midtown was somewhat different. The concessions package remained constant at $55 a square foot while the tenant effective rent increased from $43.47 a square foot to $47.16. Although that represented an increase of $3.69 a square foot, landlords got only an increase of $3.33 a square foot, once again as a result of higher operating expenses and taxes.
Across the river in New Jersey, concessions stayed the same, at $20 a square foot, while tenant effective rents increased $1.18 a square foot, from $28.59 a square foot to $29.77. But landlords got only an increase of 91 cents a square foot because of higher operating and electricity costs.
A big part of any concessions package is a period of free rent, which was originally thought of as the time a tenant could not use the space while its offices were being constructed. In periods of slack demand, landlords will extend this period from a few months to years as an incentive.
Mr. Studley said this type of concession has special appeal for tenants, particularly in tough economic times. "Tenants look at transactions on a discounted cash flow basis," he said. "The dollars up front are the most important to them. Owners are more willing to take up-front costs than tenants."
THE effective rent report also allows for easy comparisons of different markets. It will probably come as no surprise that midtown Manhattan is the most expensive market for tenants, with a rental rate of $47.16 a square foot after adjustment for the free rent period and construction allowance, followed by San Francisco at $42.10 a square foot and Boston at $39.89. Downtown Manhattan is in the middle of the pack for tenants at $31.32 a square foot, with downtown Los Angeles the cheapest at $19.54. The New Jersey office market is only slightly cheaper than downtown Manhattan, at $29.77 a square foot.
But high costs in New York reduce the landlords' effective rent in midtown to $25.97 a square foot, well below the $29.12 a foot building owners collect in San Francisco. Similarly, lower costs mean that landlords in New Jersey get $17.68 a square foot compared to $13.76 in downtown Manhattan.
Part of the high cost of New York is real estate taxes, which are usually passed through to tenants and which stood at $9.30 a square foot in midtown Manhattan, compared to $8.08 in Chicago and $6.35 in downtown Manhattan. Downtown Los Angeles levies just $1.96 a square foot in taxes.
In the other suburban areas of New York, the report found that tenant effective rents increased 9 percent year to year in Westchester County to an average of $24.48 a square foot, and 7.5 percent, to $26.62 a square foot, in Long Island. But tenant effective rents actually dropped 4.7 percent to $30.93 a square foot in Fairfield County, Connecticut, following a strong market in 1997.
One other area where Manhattan leads the nation is in the cost of electricity, which is calculated at $2.20 a square foot both midtown and downtown.
Mr. Studley warned that the price of electricity is not the same in all buildings because some landlords tack on a markup to improve their own effective rents. "In most cases, tenants are better off with their own meter," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julien J. Studley in his Park Avenue office. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "THE REAL COST: Analyzing Rents"
The actual rents paid by tenants of office buildings, after such landlord concessions as office renovations and periods of free rent, are lower than the gross rents. The landlord's cash flow is an estimate of proceeds after taxes and operating expenses. Based on 10-year leases for the most modern buildings. Graph plots gross rent, tenant's effective rent and landlord's cash flow for Downtown Manhattan and Midtown Manhattan, from 1990 through 1998. (Source: Julian J. Studley & Co.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STUDLEY, JULIAN J, INC JULIEN J STUDLEY INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: STUDLEY, JULIAN J, INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); 

PERSON: STUDLEY, JULIAN J

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



566 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Audrey Thurm, Edward Seiler

 BODY:
Audrey Ellen Thurm, a daughter of Carol Thurm and Dr. Joel Thurm of Davidson, N.C., is to be married today to Dr. Edward James Seiler, a son of Rochelle and Felix Seiler of Netanya, Israel. Rabbi Chaim Stern is to perform the ceremony at Tappan Hill in Tarrytown, N.Y.
The bride, 28, is a candidate for a Ph.D. degree in clinical child psychology at DePaul University. In the fall she is to begin as a visiting research fellow at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. She graduated from Cornell University. Her father is a urologist in Salisbury, N.C. Her mother is a certified public accountant in Davidson. 
 The bridegroom, 33, is a postdoctoral fellow in economics at Hebrew University, from which he received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in agricultural economics. He received a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago, where he was a Fulbright scholar. His parents are pharmacists in Netanya for the Kupat Holim, a health service. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (88%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); UROLOGY (69%); PHARMACISTS (65%); 

PERSON: THURM, AUDREY ELLEN (AUDREY ELLEN SEILER); SEILER, DR. EDWARD JAMES AUDREY ELLEN THURM (86%); CAROL THURM (60%); JOEL THURM (60%); CHAIM STERN (55%); FELIX SEILER (55%); EDWARD JAMES SEILER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



567 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 11; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
Closing Down an Empire, Gracefully

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
As a managing partner at a major accounting firm in the early 90's, Alan J. Bowers had done his share of swimming with the sharks of leveraged buyouts and arbitrage on behalf of corporate clients. He usually watched from a safe distance and was never part of the food chain himself.
That changed in 1995 when he became president of Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company with the goal of rehabilitating this former stalwart of the insurance industry under the watchful eye of state regulators, courts, policyholders and creditors. 
 The company, the nation's 18th largest insurer with assets then valued at $13 billion, was insolvent in what remains the largest bankruptcy of an insurance company in the country. Waiting on his desk on his first day was a letter from a corporate creditor telling him that his name had been added as a defendant in a suit seeking millions in damages for Mutual's years of profligacy. Suddenly the then 39-year-old accountant had an inkling of what a feeding frenzy was like.
Five years later, things have changed. Mutual Benefit Life has pulled itself out of the depths of insolvency. The lawsuit in which Mr. Bowers was named, along with scores of others, has been dissolved. The company has held on to most of its 600,000 policyholders, paid creditors and made itself attractive enough to have its business and assets acquired by a major financial services company, SunAmerica.
SunAmerica, in turn, was acquired by a financial services giant, American International Group, placing policyholders who had once lined up outside of the offices of Mutual Benefits Life in a position to cash in their policies with a blue chip, global company.
Consequently, Mutual Benefit Life, which was at the center of one of the industry's most raucous and loudly contentious insolvencies, as well as its successor company, MBL Life Assurance Corp., will pass out of existence next month with barely a whisper six months before the December 1999 deadline set by the state in 1991.
Mr. Bowers will relinquish the post of president, chief executive and member of the board. While he will continue to serve as a consultant until December, he will also give up the spacious, fifth-floor office in the company's 18-story headquarters, which stands out like a large granite thumb in the city's skyline. His office is down a majestic hallway of black marble and golden oak paneling that is hung with portraits of his somber-faced predecessors over the last 154 years, all arrayed in dress ranging from wing collars and blue serge to spread collars and gray flannel.
There is no portrait among this collection of steely stares and pompous poses of Mr. Bowers, still boyish-looking at 44. For him, that is a point of some pride.
"While some of these men were doing the right thing, others didn't know what the right thing was," Mr. Bowers said as he strolled down the gantlet of portraits. "Much of what was done was done in the interest of empire building and ego gratification. It was an ugly past."
By most accounts, Mr. Bowers came in to administer a rehabilitation plan that was already set up by state regulators, the courts and Palmieri and Company, which specializes in turning around financially distressed companies. To this he added a determination to work in the open for creditors and policyholders to see. He smoothed the ruffled feathers of most of the principles involved and bought time for the company to sell off troubled real estate investments just as the market was turning upward, and to dispose of the stock it had acquired in its foreclosure on troubled businesses.
Mr. Bowers took the job four years ago amid controversy over his compensation and his ties to the administration of Governor Whitman. He had worked as a volunteer in her 1993 campaign, served on the transition committee and was chairman of the Governor's master plan commission after she took office. In addition, Mr. Bowers is friends of the Governor's husband, John, who is an investment banker.
State Senator Richard Codey, the Democratic minority leader, fought a losing battle to block the appointment as a political decision rather than a wise business move. He continues to be critical of the process, which he termed secretive, and the compensation package, which with salary, bonuses and incentives could net Mr. Bowers $1.34 million for each of the last four years.
"He has done a decent enough job, a reasonable job as a caretaker," said Mr. Codey. "But the truth is that he had a lot of help from a good economy."
Mutual Benefit's problems began in the 1980's, when its investments began to rely too heavily on speculative real estate loans and paper from dozens of equally risky leveraged buyouts. It was all long-term, illiquid investments that did not fit in well with the short term, high yield and easily withdrawn financial instruments that Mutual Benefit Life had added to its product mix of pension funds and whole life policies.
In 1991, as the recession deepened and the real estate market softened, Mutual was left with too many nonperforming loans; it foreclosed on some of them and took equity positions in other firms. The company became owner of Fisher and Williams Islands off the Florida Coast, scheduled for the development of condominiums; a macadamia nut farm; a manufacturer of baby clothing and a string of home-improvement stores in the Midwest.
"We had a small company of 600 just to oversee the development on the two islands," said Mr. Bowers, who after working as a consultant for Palmieri was chosen in 1995 to become the president of Mutual Benefit Life and oversee the continuing rehabilitation. "I saw a lot that suggested that management had been negligent."
The company continued to pay insurance benefits as they came due and put in place a plan that allowed those who wanted to cash out their policies or keep them in force through the rehabilitation with the guarantee of earning five percent interest annually and the possibility of greater benefit down the road.
Only 30,000 of the company's 495,722 policyholders took the cash offer by the deadline in 1994, about 6.2 percent of the total and valued at $101 million in payouts.
The last four years have been good ones for the company. Mr. Bowers observed early in his tenure that Mutual Benefit Life would have to be lucky and smart to come through successfully. The luck was in the upturn in the economy, which propped up most of the once-sagging real estate holdings. The smart part came, Mr. Bowers said, in the decision to broker a detente between the creditors and policyholders, who were jockeying in court for the proceeds from whatever sales were made.
Mr. Bowers said that he decided to end the secrecy and talk to everyone in separate meetings about the rehabilitation process with one caveat: that they leave their lawyers home. By 1996 he persuaded all parties to agree to a set of "guiding principles" that called on them to drop their suits in exchange for a guarantee that the policyholders would get 30 percent of the post-rehabilitation value and creditors 70 percent.
"The company had failed in a hugely colossal way in front of the whole world and I didn't want to work out the final deal in a backroom somewhere," he said.
With the final disposition of the company, the faithful policyholders will be getting $245 million over the next three-and-a-half years and the creditors will get a total of $573 million, or 95 percent of their original investments when they once feared that their best outcome would be 30 cents on the dollar.
"The only constituency that was not served well was the employees," said Mr. Bowers, who noted that employment had plummeted from 3,150 in 1991 to about 375 now in the waning weeks of MBL Life Assurance. "We were able to create so much value that we were able to offer them gain-sharing benefits, severance packages and outplacement services. But there was no opportunity for them to continue their careers here."
As for himself, Mr. Bowers said that he would finish his consulting in the final months of the company's existence and let the work he did speak for itself as he fields job offers.
"I'm a relatively young guy at 44 years old and I have a career ahead of me," he said. "I didn't want to be associated with a backroom deal which everyone questioned."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan J. Bowers took over besieged Mutual Benefit Life, based in Newark, and made it an attractive buy for a major financial services company. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MUTUAL BENEFIT LIFE INSURANCE CO (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); MBL LIFE ASSURANCE CORP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSURANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); DAMAGES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LITIGATION (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: ALAN J BOWERS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



568 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: A Culture of Trial, Despite Error

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
LOU L. PAI'S last assignment at Enron had all the hallmarks of a career maker.
As the chairman and chief executive of Enron Energy Services, Mr. Pai led the company's charge to become the nation's premier marketer of electricity to residential customers as states like California deregulated their utility industries.
Oops. After an intensive, two-year campaign that sent Enron's stock on a roller-coaster ride, the company has declared retail electric sales a dead end for now. 
 A career breaker? Not at Enron, said Mr. Pai, 51. Top executives concluded that the company had just been premature. "You're going to make mistakes," Mr. Pai said. "You can't sit there and punish people for trying."
It doesn't hurt that the company's senior officers have known failure. Jeffrey K. Skilling, Enron's president, recalled that he and Mr. Pai were part of group in 1990 that developed a financial instrument called a Gas Trust, intended to let investors speculate on natural-gas prices. Enron promoted the trust around the country, but quickly abandoned it when investors showed little interest.
Now, instead of being reined in by his superiors, Mr. Pai has been encouraged to push ahead and take even more risks. His unit is spending heavily to persuade large industrial and commercial customers to sign up for long-term contracts under which Enron will supply them with low-cost electricity and natural gas, along with an array of services to cut their energy costs. The start-up costs are expected to reach $300 million by the end of the year, and Mr. Pai hopes that the new business will begin to generate operating profits by fall.
That makes the gamble much bigger than Enron's retailing efforts, which began in April 1996, when the company sent 30 salespeople to set up an office in Peterborough, N.H., a village of 5,300. New Hampshire had a pilot program to introduce competition into electricity sales, and as part of it, Enron beat back a score of rivals to be selected as Peterborough's new energy supplier.
The company then spent $30 million on television commercials -- some featuring happy customers in Peterborough -- intended to make itself a household name. By the fall of 1997, Mr. Pai and his group had carried the banner to California, which as the first state to fully deregulate would be a much bigger market to tap.
Enron sent out hundreds of thousands of fliers offering customers two weeks' free electricity, and it blanketed the state with advertising. But the response was tepid: The company ended up with about 50,000 customers, or 1 percent of a potential pool of five million accounts.
After spending $15 million in a few months, Enron pulled out of California -- and left Peterborough, too, as New Hampshire's deregulation efforts flagged. "It's a marketing game," explained Mr. Pai, who studied economics at the University of Maryland and worked at Conoco as a trader before joining Enron in 1987. "We're not a marketing company. That's not our expertise."
His current thrust -- going after larger customers to supply electricity and natural gas in big quantities -- is more familiar ground for Enron. But there are challenges: knitting together disparate services to provide energy audits, billing and centralized heating and cooling controls for hotel chains or sports stadiums or a company's factories.
There is also ample competition -- and the certainty that for all the leeway Enron affords, the market's discipline will be swift and severe if Mr. Pai and his group have miscalculated on the long-term supply agreements.
"If we don't execute," he said, "we're toast."
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lou L. Pai's current assignment for Enron is to sell electricity and natural gas to large users, like hotel chains, factories and sports stadiums. Mr. Pai studied plans for the new baseball stadium in Houston. (Robert Mihovil for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ENRNQ (OTC) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ENRON ENERGY SERVICES ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); ENRON ENERGY SERVICES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENRON ENERGY SERVICES

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SALES; GAS (FUEL) EXECUTIVES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); RETAIL SALES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BASEBALL (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); 

PERSON: PAI, LOU L; SALPUKAS, AGIS LOU L PAI (95%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



569 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
For Retailers in Some City Centers, Gentrification Is a Four-Letter Word

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
FOR 70 years, Hippodrome Hatters has sold handmade hats to fashion-conscious shoppers from a small store on North Eutaw Street on this city's West Side. Lou Boulmetis, who took over the business from his grandfather, has seen the area, once the center of Baltimore's retail trade, suffer through a long decline: the departure of old-line department stores, a rise in crime and the erosion of once-glorious retail facades.
But it is the so-called revival that has Mr. Boulmetis worried. His shop is in a building, built in 1810, that is now scheduled for demolition in a sweeping city program to remake the shopworn 18-block retail district, whose patrons are now mostly African-Americans. The project could displace more than 100 small businesses, many of them owned by African- or Korean-Americans, as roughly 100 properties are condemned and leveled. 
 "Beauty is in the eye of the beholder," said Mr. Boulmetis, 47, a scrappy, bantamweight hat maker with no patience for "yuppification," as many opponents derisively refer to the sprucing-up of urban neighborhoods to appeal to wealthy, young, mainly white professionals. "We've been here through everything, and now they want to remake the place for the educated class on the backs of the people who are already here."
The planned $350 million redevelopment of the West Side includes 2,000 new housing units, splashy retail stores, renovation of a theater and new parking structures, reflecting the growing confidence among investors in the economic health of city centers. Neighborhood revival plans are usually catnip to local business people, and in cities across the country merchants have organized business improvement districts to improve neighborhoods and attract new shoppers and investment.
But for many people, projects like Baltimore's that call for sweeping demolition harken frighteningly back to the huge redevelopment projects of the 1950's and 60's and threaten to destroy everything they are meant to revive: the unique fabric and traditions of neighborhoods.
In some cases, including Baltimore's West Side, redevelopment also threatens to obliterate a historic part of the city's architectural heritage. This has made the planned demolition a cause celebre with preservationist groups like Baltimore Heritage and the National Trust for Historic Preservation, which earlier this month named the West Side one of the nation's 11 most endangered places. (Baltimore has also drawn criticism recently for its sweeping demolition of row houses, a staple of the city's working-class neighborhoods.)
IN some city neighborhoods, preserving architecture has mattered less than fighting off the numbing sameness that increasingly characterizes urban retail districts. Storied places like Old Town in Pasadena, Calif., Harvard Square in Cambridge, Mass., and Chelsea -- among other neighborhoods -- in New York City are in some ways becoming victims of their own success as they attract wealthier urbanites and the national specialty chains that cater to them.
"We used to be a place no one heard of, and if they did, they never would want to move to," said Robert Trentlyon, a longtime Chelsea resident and the former publisher of a neighborhood newspaper, The Chelsea Clinton News. "Then we got discovered about 10 years ago," and rents and land values soared, he noted; Federal-era town houses that sold for $10,000 in the 1950's now fetch $1.5 million.
In the process, one of New York's more eclectic shopping districts, with antique shops, thrift stores and local restaurants, is being transformed into yet another homogenized urban neighborhood.
Old Town Pasadena has already arrived where Chelsea seems to be headed, and where many on the West Side of Baltimore fear to go. When Old Town was first redeveloped in the early 1980's, it attracted adventurous independent merchants, while the larger chains stayed on the sidelines. But as the area caught on, attracting an increasingly prosperous customer base, the national chains poured in.
Rising rents and landlords' preference for financially secure corporate tenants have all but driven out the small and unique shops, according to one of Old Town's original redevelopers, Joseph Paggi.
"The guys who came in originally, the independents, end up losing economically," said Mr. Paggi, now chief operating officer of Center Trust, a real estate investment firm in Manhattan Beach, Calif. "The change to the Crate and Barrels and Barnes & Nobles puts everything into the stratosphere."
Mr. Paggi says Old Town's evolution leads him to think that successful urban shopping districts are destined to be "pasteurized" sooner or later. "We'll have a Banana Republic on every corner and a Starbucks right next to them," he predicted.
TO officials leading the redevelopment of Baltimore's West Side, that's no bad thing, and may even be indispensable. M. J. Brodie, president of the quasi-public Baltimore Development Corporation, says new investment is needed in areas like the West Side to attract middle-income shoppers and residents back to the urban core. To save some old buildings, he said, there may be a need to replace others with new structures like parking garages.
Mr. Brodie's efforts are strongly backed by Baltimore's political elite, many of whom are African-American, including the outgoing Mayor, Kurt L. Schmoke, and a majority on the City Council. (Peter Angelos, a powerful real estate developer who owns the Baltimore Orioles, is also on board, as are Nationsbank and the Weinberg Foundation, which owns large chunks of West Side real estate.) Mr. Brodie chafes at the assertions by Mr. Boulmetis and other local merchants that the project's real goal is to replace the area's mainly black shoppers with a more "upscale" population drawn from young professionals and the University of Maryland campus nearby.
"Whenever you try to improve something, there's a trade-off," Mr. Brodie said. "We want to create a success story that includes all kind of people, working class, African-American, WASP's."
Mr. Brodie, who led the recent redevelopment of Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, says demolishing old buildings and relocating tenants is a price worth paying to revive the West Side.
But many merchants say the price he is willing to pay is their destruction. To fight the project, they have enlisted William Donald Schaefer, who was Mayor of Baltimore from 1971 to 1987, then Governor of Maryland, and remains one of the city's most respected political figures. Mr. Schaefer has said he favored improving the West Side using more imagination and less of a "bulldozer mentality."
With his support, and a threatened lawsuit, Mr. Boulmetis and other West Side merchants still hope to stave off the wrecker's ball. "This area evolved because it serves the market," Mr. Boulmetis said. "Let it evolve. Not everything has to be the same, like any suburban mall.
"It's not just a matter of pretty buildings," he continued. "It's our livelihood."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lou Boulmetis, right, reminisced with William Blount, 81, about streetcar traffic that used to pass in front of his hat store in Baltimore. The business is among about 100 that could be displaced by a redevelopment plan. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Map of Maryland shows location of Baltimore

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE DEVELOPMENT CORP OLD TOWN MILL (50%); OLD TOWN COPYWORKS (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE DEVELOPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE (MD); UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; BLACKS; KOREAN-AMERICANS RETAILERS (92%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); HAT CAP & MILLINERY MFG (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); CRIME RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HISTORY (61%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: BRODIE, M J; KOTKIN, JOEL LOU BOULMETIS (59%); JOSEPH PAGGI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



570 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
States Chasing Sales Taxes Down the Internet Highway

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT is one of the more vexing economic issues of the Internet age: how to insure that state sales tax revenues are not eviscerated by the shift to on-line retailing, where borders are all but meaningless and sales tax collection is spotty at best.
The question has riled both state and local governments, which fear that their tax bases will disappear down a phone line at 56 kilobits a second, and electronic retailers and Internet service providers, which fear that revenue-hungry governments will view electronic commerce as a cash cow to be milked every which way. 
 The basic problem has been around as long as mail-order catalogues. When consumers order books, compact disks or flowers from an out-of-state retailer, they are technically liable to pay sales taxes. Companies, however, are bound to collect the taxes only from consumers in states where the company has a physical presence. Although some merchants collect the tax even where they are not required to do so, most do not.
So for orders by mail, or phone -- or the Internet -- consumers can end up with a tax-free purchase. That reality has left traditional retailers complaining of a competitive disadvantage. And it has left state and local governments worried that technology is leaving tax policy far behind. Denied reliable sales taxes, they may have to look elsewhere for revenue, with unpredictable consequences.
It is not too hard to come up with potential solutions. But don't look for them to be agreed upon and implemented quickly.
Last week saw a flurry of attention to the issue, but no consensus on anything. The Clinton Administration issued a report on the "breathtaking" growth of electronic commerce and the technologies that make it possible, suggesting that the nation is only starting to get a handle on all the ways the Internet is changing the economy and necessitating adjustments to public policy.
Some of the biggest names in business weighed in with a report about lost sales tax revenues that suggested the states have gotten themselves in a lather about nothing.
And the Advisory Commission on Electronic Commerce, established last year by Congress to help sort out the taxation issue, held its first meeting and quickly got into a heated debate about . . . office space.
The Administration's report, prepared by the Commerce Department, acknowledged that the Government was only starting to collect and analyze information looking specifically at the quantity and composition of electronic commerce. But while it cited only vague estimates of the size of that business -- between $7 billion and $15 billion last year, growing to as much as $80 billion in 2002 -- it included a set of examples that made clear how powerful a force electronic commerce has become:
* The on-line sales of Dell Computer more than doubled last year, and by next year the company expects them to account for half its revenue.
* Quicken Mortgage, an on-line mortgage provider from Intuit, arranged $400 million in loans in the first quarter of this year, a pace far ahead of the $600 million in all of 1998.
* US-Style.com recently started a service allowing Japanese consumers to buy American goods through a Japanese-language Web site. The report said the service highlighted the global nature of electronic commerce and the potential for it to become a trade issue.
BUT what has all that activity meant for sales tax collections? Not much, according to the study done by Ernst & Young for a coalition that included America Online, Cisco Systems, Microsoft, Time Warner and Wal-Mart.
The study found that state and local governments lost $170 million in sales tax revenue last year because of Internet commerce, or one-tenth of 1 percent of total sales and use tax collections.
"The 'revenue crisis' from Internet sales has not materialized," it concluded. "The Advisory Commission on Electronic Commerce, state and local government and Congress have time to carefully deliberate on the appropriate taxation of E-commerce."
That is good news for the commission, which spent a portion of its first session last week debating whether its executive director had created a conflict of interest in accepting free office space from an electronics-industry lobbying group that employs her husband. (Like any good commission, it opted to study the matter further before making a decision.)
There are technical and political hurdles to creating a system that would automatically add the appropriate sales tax to Internet purchases and funnel the revenue to the proper government. But none of them are insurmountable; the electronic payment systems used by the credit card companies and banks are the obvious model.
The real problem is whether the commission, Congress and the Administration can work quickly enough to get ahead of the Internet wave, or whether public policy is doomed always to paddle in its wake. Given the libertarian ethos that has always pervaded cyberspace, perhaps the latter is just the outcome that the E-commerce industry and Internet users want. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (91%); CSC (LSE) (91%); WMT (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS AND SUPERCENTERS (90%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (90%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG; AMERICA ONLINE INC; CISCO SYSTEMS INC; WAL-MART STORES INC DELL COMPUTER JAPAN (50%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: ERNST & YOUNG; AMERICA ONLINE INC; CISCO SYSTEMS INC; WAL-MART STORES INC CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TAXATION; SALES TAX; STATES (US) SALES TAX (92%); RETAILERS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INTERNET SALES TAX (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TAX LAW (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (56%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



571 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 3; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2560 words

HEADLINE: Not Just Another Working Girl

BYLINE: By MONIQUE P. YAZIGI 

 BODY:
GROWING up, Elise Henning did all the right things. She attended the Ethel Walker School, made her debut at the Junior Assembly, spent her junior year in Geneva and graduated from Sarah Lawrence College. When she returned to her parents' home in New Canaan, Conn., she asked her father, a Wall Street commodities trader, if she could go to law school.
"Elise, you don't need to go to law school," she recalls him saying. "Your brother does." His advice: "Catch a good man, make him happy and you'll be taken care of for the rest of your life." 
 That was almost 30 years ago, and Ms. Henning ended up marrying a lawyer, settling with him in Palm Beach, Fla., and socializing in all the right circles. She entertained, became active in the Episcopal Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea and had a daughter who attended Palm Beach Day School.
It was just as Father had said. Until her husband left, moving to Vermont. He paid no child support after the divorce in 1992, she said, relating the story over iced tea at the Hotel Carlyle.
She didn't know what to do.
Not wanting her status in life to change, and most important, not wanting her daughter, who was 12 at the time, to feel deprived in any way, she assessed her skills. She had had no career, but she did have a knowledge of fine homes. (She and all her friends had always lived in them.) She knew how to entertain and dress tastefully, and she had many rich and social friends.
So Ms. Henning became a real estate broker at Martha A. Gottfried Inc., selling luxury properties to the social and the trying-to-be-social. By night, she was a Palm Beach party planner, helping women create "beautiful parties" for around $200 a guest. (In between, by telephone, she helped her daughter with homework). "I was so out there, networking, meeting more people," she said. "The jobs gave me an income, access and a great reason, as a single woman, for being at all the parties."
Ms. Henning, who has since moved to Manhattan to sell real estate at the upscale Stribling & Associates, went the classic employment route of upper-class former wives -- both divorced and widowed -- in their 40's and 50's. Reared to expect husbands to be their providers, they are left without careers of their own, and usually with a financial settlement too meager to maintain the life they are accustomed to.
But many can turn to careers in glossy fields for which their particular credentials -- high-maintenance tastes and a network of rich and social friends -- make them ideally suited. These include luxury real-estate sales, interior decorating, event planning and "client liaison" at the Sotheby's or Christie's auction houses, where they help the best clients decide what to buy and which of their houses to put it in.
A not-so-incidental benefit of these glamour jobs is that they put women in the right circles to meet the next multimillionaire husband, if that's what they have in mind.
Mark Simone, 44, a man about town with homes in Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn., has dated many such women. "My first line is, 'Are you a real estate broker or a decorator?' " he said, laughing. "They always say, 'I'm a real estate broker, but I was a decorator. How did you know?' "
Sugar Rautbord, a socialite author in Palm Beach, said the upper-class divorcee has two options (neither including the possibility, exercised by at least some women, of returning to college or professional school to prepare for a new career). For one, she can go to Sotheby's. "That's where part of the mythic lure is that you sit behind the desk or have some knowledge of French antiquities, and a gentleman will materialize in front of you, purchase a catalogue and ask for your hand in marriage," she said.
Option 2 is to sell real estate. She recalled that a "multi-asseted single man" she knows was home-shopping in Palm Beach, where an army of leggy, attractive divorcees was competing over him. One day, she said, he called a broker he had been working with, and a colleague said the woman was out of the office with a terminal illness, but she would be happy to take him to dinner. "The first broker had a dentist's appointment!" said Ms. Rautbord, whose latest novel, "The Chameleon" (Warner Books, 1999), is about a middle-aged woman who changes her life and moves on by remarrying.
Of course, the difficulties of re-entering the dating world and the workplace are common to all divorced women whose husbands supported them, regardless of economic status. A 1996 study in the American Sociological Review found that women's standard of living after divorce fell 27 percent, while men's rose 10 percent.
But Lenore Weitzman, the author of "The Divorce Revolution: The Unexpected Social and Economic Consequences for Women and Children in America" (Free Press/ Macmillan, 1986), said the economic slide for stay-at-home wives from affluent households is greater than average, because there is such a discrepancy between what the husband made and what the wife can earn.
"For the ladies-who-lunch set, in divorce they end up with a skimpier lunch than when they started," said Raoul Felder, the celebrity divorce lawyer.
Enter the glamour job. The access to financial information about home buyers -- and in the New York world of co-op sales, social and personal references -- makes luxury real estate sales the most popular field for the once and hopeful wealthy wife. (For those who might not be in it to stalk a husband, of course, it doesn't hurt that the work can pay quite handsomely.) Taylor Stein, an owner of the clubby Brown's restaurant on the Upper East Side, who used to sell real estate at William B. May, said: "Think about it: when you get a customer who calls and he tells you he's looking for an apartment that is $5 million, guess what, he's rich enough for you. And if it's a co-op, you have access to the most intensely personal information -- W-2's, reference letters."
Ms. Henning agrees, to a point. "The application still doesn't tell you about his character, his values," she said. You also have to sniff around, maybe look up divorce records. "If the guy is from Darien, go up to Darien and read the circumstances of the divorce," she said. That way you won't end up, like one friend of hers, dating a man with excellent financial references who was also cross-dressing in Miami.
MS. HENNING, who is in her early 50's, has gone out on a date or two with men she met through her jobs, but "nothing's worked out," she said. Either they didn't ask her out again, or they didn't live up to her expectations, which are high. "When they ask me to pay half the check," she said, "I cross them off my list."
There is also the problem of dealing with the towering egos of the middle-aged bachelors some women in New York refer to as "the billionaire boys' club."
Ms. Henning recalled dating a retired executive worth $80 million who was used to people's bowing and scraping. "He had a level of self-absorption that was scary," she said. "When I would talk, he would say, 'Shut up.' He would only relate as if I were a corporate secretary." She made him a needlepoint pillow that said, "It ain't easy being king," and then ended the relationship.
Nancy Pearson, a divorced woman in her 40's who still looks a bit like the cheerleader she was in college, also has high standards. She would be thrilled to fall in love with a man with five houses and a horse farm, though she acknowledged she would make do with less: "I just want a country house."
Ms. Pearson, who was divorced in her 20's, bounced around in some not-so-glamorous jobs -- as an art director for CBS, then for Hearst magazines -- before landing in the bona fide glamour field of decorating. "At CBS, I was working so hard, weekends, nights, I never met anyone externally," she said. "I sat at my desk all the time. It was not the right existence, so I quit."
Ms. Pearson said that in 1997, she ran into a handsome, recently divorced man at a fund-raiser for the very social Henry Street Settlement. He was moving from Greenwich, Conn., to Manhattan and asked her to help him find an apartment and to decorate it. She found a place on the Upper East Side for him, then moved in with him and started to decorate. The relationship was moving along -- she had met his family, and had even gone camping with his mother -- but just as the window treatments were delivered, her beau said the relationship was too serious and asked her to move out.
"I guess I had finished my job," she said ruefully.
Now, Ms. Pearson said, she has a rule not to date clients. Or at least not until her work is finished. It is part of the courtship dance between the glamorous working woman and the wealthy bachelor -- a working relationship full of moments of professional intimacy, which allow the rare bloom and the buzzing bee to size one another up.
R. Couri Hay, a society columnist for Hamptons magazine, said that all of the men and women who meet this way have something the other wants. "These women are looking for an American billionaire," he said, "and a man wants glamour, prestige, social connections that he doesn't have. A man who has money and doesn't have class wants to get himself a glamour girl."
Dr. Steve Pearlman, 43, a plastic surgeon, was a client of Ms. Pearson's, though they never dated. He has gone out with a real estate broker who showed him apartments. He said a man can learn a lot about a potential mate in such professional encounters. "You see their taste, their attention to detail, their attention to budget," he said. "Are they realistic? Are they frivolous?"
Ms. Pearson's white-blond hair and trim figure (she works out three or four times a week) mark her as virtually the universal type among the glamorous divorced women of the Upper East Side. She and many others tend to favor a uniform of Adolfo and Chanel at lunch, classic 18-karat jewelry and, for lounging with friends, white cotton blouses that seem chosen so the buttons gape slightly across the chest. Most look far younger than their years, an effect achieved through meticulous grooming and, in many cases, the magic of a surgeon's knife.
They are well aware that in looking for romance with men their age, they are competing with women a decade or two younger.
"It's hard," said Mary Meehan, a stunning blonde from Dallas, crossing her long legs on a blue velvet Louis XV couch in her New York apartment. "Men in their 50's . . . there aren't that many for us 50-year-olds." She is a student of the fashionable theories of evolutionary psychology.
"Men are instinctively drawn to young women of childbearing age, and women are drawn to men who can take care of them, with power," she said. "It's instinct."
Ms. Meehan, who has been divorced four times, is a decorator who works and socializes hard. (Nina Griscom and Dr. Dan Baker are close friends.) She takes decorating jobs only for $500,000 and up. In her own apartment, a modernist white box, she spent many hours adding moldings and gilding, upholstering the walls with Fortunylike fabric to give it the look of a European chateau.
"I learned my work ethic in my 40's," she said. "I wish I had it in my 20's."
Growing up with wealthy parents, Ms. Meehan thought she would never have to work. "Proper young ladies got married," she said. Her first husband hunted and fished, she said, living off inherited money. After her latest divorce, from Michael Meehan, a former partner at Salomon Brothers, he got the Southampton house, and their nine-room apartment on East 72d Street was sold to satisfy the settlement terms.
Ms. Meehan traded down to a two-bedroom apartment on Park Avenue in the 60's, and she had to go to work nearly full time. Fortunately, her life of privilege had given her exquisite taste. At 19, her father sent her, her mother and a sister to Paris to shop for antiques for a year. Her decorating projects have been published in Architectural Digest, which has won her the attention of bachelors, though not always the most ideal ones. After publication, she said, she received letters from men in prison -- avid readers of the magazine, it turned out.
At Park Avenue tea parties, the popular theory is that a divorced woman has five years from the time her settlement comes through to meet the next husband.
The deadline reflects the reality of modern divorce, which rarely grants a woman long-term alimony. Most states, including New York, award "equitable distribution" of assets in a divorce, which means a greater share goes to the bigger contributor; wives often receive a lump sum.
Even some of the richest, most high-profile women can find the financial carpet pulled out from under them. After her divorce from the billionaire Henry Kravis, Carolyne Roehm lost his backing for the fashion company she ran, so she took flower-arranging classes to prepare for a new career writing books about flowers. "I went from running seven houses to running one, my own," Ms. Roehm said.
Barbara de Portago said there is a difference between the hard economic reality of the divorced woman and the myth of "the divorcee, with that accent on the first e." Being a divorcee, she said, "means that you're heavily subsidized by the former husband, swathed in haute couture -- you're bejeweled. Of course, a divorcee has no children, is massaged in oil and is lolling about on the French Riviera or Gstaad."
Ms. de Portago, thrice divorced, wouldn't mind being such a figure. Instead, she works for glamorous employers -- Sotheby's, Christian Dior and the Versailles Foundation -- largely trading on the taste and connections acquired during a life in the beau monde. "My work is all social," she said, mostly "conducted over lunch" -- La Grenouille, Le Cirque 2000, Le Bernardin.
Over Evian at the Pierre, Ms. de Portago said she did not want to talk about her three former husbands (Anthony de Portago, a son of Carroll Petrie; Jason Grant, a playwright, and William Tabert, an investment banker), but she was happy to talk about work. As a consultant to Christian Dior, which supplies her with a wardrobe, she entices friends to buy the house's clothes. She gives a lunch twice a year at Le Cirque for 150 women, all of whom must wear Dior.
Ms. de Portago grew up in the palace of Versailles. Truly. Her stepfather, Gerald Van der Kemp, was the curator.
At Sotheby's, where she works in client relations, she advises new customers -- many of them newly wealthy -- on what and how to buy at auction. She said that men fly her to their country homes, introduce her to more people and, oh yes, sometimes propose marriage. "They say, 'Please marry me, Barbara -- you could be such an asset to me,' " she said, then added, "There are so many men out there, but no one I want yet."
While Ms. Henning, the real estate broker who moved to New York from Palm Beach, encouraged her daughter, Cornelia, now 19, to make her debut at the Junior Assembly, she is now warning her not to follow her own example of neglecting a career and marrying for security. Two years ago, after Cornelia left for Vanderbilt University in Nashville, she called home and said, "Mom, all the girls here want is their M.R.S."
Within a year, Ms. Henning brought her daughter to Manhattan and urged her to enroll at New York University, where she is now studying filmmaking.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Barbara de Portago says the difference between a divorced woman and a "divorcee" is that the divorcee is "heavily subsidized by the former husband, swathed in haute couture -- you're bejeweled." Mary Meehan, a decorator, said that when she was growing up, "proper young ladies got married." She did but, now divorced, she finds that "men in their 50's . . . there aren't that many for us 50-year-olds." Nancy Pearson, a decorator, said she'd be thrilled to fall in love with a man with five houses and a horse farm, though she'd settle for one with a country house. (Photographs by Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Elise Henning was told, "Catch a good man, make him happy and you'll be taken care of for the rest of your life." Now she warns her daughter, who is 19, not to do the same. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; LIFE STYLES; LABOR LAW SCHOOLS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (86%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); INTERIOR DECORATING (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (71%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); 

PERSON: MEEHAN, MARY; DE PORTAGO, BARBARA; PEARSON, NANCY; HENNING, ELISE; YAZIGI, MONIQUE P ELISE HENNING (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



572 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
Supporters Use Sardines to Fish for a New Subway

 BODY:
A sardine sandwich was the center of attention at Ratner's restaurant on Delancey Street on Thursday afternoon. Garnished with black olives, sheaves of iceberg lettuce and pickles, the fish, on a bagel, glistened as television cameras tried to capture its essence.
As Robert Harmatz, a third-generation owner of the 94-year-old restaurant explained, the bagel represented New York City. The sardines symbolized the Lexington Avenue subway line, because, Mr. Harmatz said, "people are always complaining that it is so crammed." 
 The Manhattan Borough President, C. Virginia Fields, organized the lunchtime gathering to build support for construction of a Second Avenue subway as a way to relieve pressure on the Lexington Avenue line. Last week, Mrs. Fields traveled around Manhattan trying to persuade her constituents and local officials of the need for the line, which has been planned for nearly 70 years. She has asked people to sign yellow postcards urging the city to follow through, and on June 30 she intends to take those postcards -- she said she had 17,000 -- to a meeting of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
The transit authority has submitted a plan to the Federal Government for a Second Avenue subway that would run between 125th and 63d Streets, connecting to the N and R lines. But Mrs. Fields is campaigning for a subway line that would run all the way to the Bowery, with a spur to the Lower East Side.
"The Lower East Side is devoid of subway service," Mrs. Fields said. "The economic revitalization of East Harlem demands that this area be served as well."
Upon entering Ratner's and looking at the platters arrayed before her, Mrs. Fields said, "I like olives," and popped one in her mouth. She looked at the sardine sandwich and said, "I don't have to eat the whole thing, do I?"
Then she took a bite, and winced slightly. "Mmm," she said through her teeth. "This is symbolic of how people are being crammed into the subway like a sardine can. But people crammed in the subway don't taste nearly as good as this sandwich."
The day before, Mrs. Fields had testified at a transit authority hearing, at which the agency was reviewing its request for Federal financing for fiscal year 2000. While the request included nearly $2.8 billion in capital improvements for New York City and suburban transit, no money was sought specifically for the Second Avenue subway line.
Mrs. Fields estimated that the full-length line she envisioned would cost $10 billion and take at least 10 years to complete.
A. Gifford Miller, a City Councilman from the Upper East Side, also testified before the transit agency on Wednesday. "If you see the subway lines as the city's circulatory system, the Lexington Avenue line is a totally congested artery that is likely to cause a major heart attack in the near future," he said. NINA SIEGAL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hopes were high at the subway ground-breaking in 1972. Nelson A. Rockefeller, center, and John V. Lindsay, right, swung picks. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); SUBURBS (60%); 

PERSON: C VIRGINIA FIELDS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



573 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH;
Gregory M. DePrince and David E. Tierney: Harbor Value Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
GREGORY M. DePRINCE, a portfolio manager at DePrince, Race & Zolo in Orlando, Fla., says he barely knows David E. Tierney, a managing partner at Richards & Tierney in Chicago. That is not surprising -- until you consider that the two men jointly manage the $185.5 million Harbor Value fund.
Indeed, Mr. Tierney says he isn't even familiar with the stocks picked by Mr. DePrince, who in turn describes their relationship this way: "I've met him, but I'm completely unaware of what he's doing." 
 An odd relationship, to be sure, but a rewarding one. Harbor Value returned 21.8 percent, annualized, for the three years ended June 18, compared with 15.5 percent for its peer group of mid-cap value funds, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index returned 28.7 percent.
"The fund's structure is somewhat unusual, but it's worked quite well," said Emily Hall, a Morningstar analyst. (It's also unusual that Harbor Capital Advisors, the fund's manager, is owned by the packaging giant Owens-Illinois.)
How does the arrangement work? To fill the 70 percent of the fund he runs, Mr. DePrince scours the markets for values among mid- and large-capitalization companies -- but more on that shortly.
As for the remainder of the fund, Mr. Tierney receives a quarterly list of about 500 stocks from which Mr. DePrince plans to select his part of the portfolio. Because Mr. Tierney knows the sector weightings and other attributes of that universe, he can use a computer to pick 150 stocks that -- when combined with Mr. DePrince's universe -- are meant to match the Russell 3000 value index in terms of attributes like price-to-earnings, dividend yield, sector weightings and volatility.
"We're the risk controllers," he said, because of the diversification and balance he brings to the fund.
Mr. DePrince's job, meanwhile, is to pick stocks that will distinguish the fund from any index. It's a three-part process. First, he screens 6,000 publicly traded securities for those with above-average yields, market capitalizations of at least $1 billion, and sufficient liquidity. That gives him the diverse list of stocks that is passed on to Mr. Tierney.
Second, Mr. DePrince whittles down that list to 200 or so by looking for issues that are undervalued both historically and relative to the index. He uses four proxies for value: price-to-earnings and price-to-book ratios, price-to-cash flow and a stock's yield relative to the S. & P. 500 over time.
Then he and two analysts make the final cut, to 75 stocks, by looking for a catalyst that will cause investors to put a higher valuation on the stock. Catalysts may include the start of a new product cycle, a change in the pricing cycle of a company's business or a restructuring.
He now sees the most value incyclical stocks, especially paper, chemicals, metals and machinery companies. "After a three-year run on growth stocks, these areas have become very undervalued," he said. "And on the fundamental side, we have the bottoming of the Asian economies, the continuing strength in the U.S. economy and relatively stable conditions in Europe."
A FAVORITE is Boise Cascade, the paper company. The stock yields 1.41 percent, and Mr. DePrince says it has a price-to-book ratio of 1.8, in the bottom third of all stocks. The catalyst for improvement, he said, is rising demand for two key products -- uncoated freesheet and liner board, which should result in higher prices. He first bought shares in July 1998, at $29.25, and has a 12-month price target of $48. The stock now trades at $42.625, or 28.7 times analysts' 1999 earnings estimates of $1.49 a share.
Also last July, he bought shares of Emerson Electric, the electrical equipment maker. Emerson, which yields 2.02 percent, acquired Westinghouse Process Controls in the third quarter of last year. "We like the acquisition, because it gives Emerson the opportunity to cross-sell all their other electrical equipment products" to Westinghouse's customer base, he said. Emerson's recently announced acquisition of Daniel Industries, which makes measurement control devices for the oil and gas industry, will provide a similar opportunity, he added.
Mr. DePrince has a 12-month price target of $89 on the stock, which now trades at $64.4375, or 21.49 times the earnings of $3 a share that analysts estimate for 1999. Its price-to-book multiple is 4.7.
In September, he acquired shares in Bank of America of Charlotte, N.C., which yields 2.56 percent. "The Nationsbank acquisition of BankAmerica provides enormous cost-cutting opportunities, on top of the successful integration with Barnett Banks in Florida and Boatmen's Bancshares in Missouri," he said.
His 12-month price target is $86; the stock now trades at $70.375, or 2.6 times book value and 14.89 times analysts' 1999 earnings estimates of $4.73 a share.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gregory M. DePrince, left (Andy Lyons for The New York Times), a manager of the Harbor Value fund, plays basketball with his daughter, Jessica, in Orlando, Fla. The other manager, David E. Tierney, stands outside his office in Chicago. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)

Chart: "Harbor Value Fund"
 
Category: Mid-cap value
Net assets: $185.5 million
Inception: December 1987
Managers: Gregory M. DePrince (since July 1994) and David E. Tierney (since January 1993)
Minimum purchase: $2,000 ($500 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 114%
3-year annualized return (through June 18): 21.8%
Category average: 15.5%
 
Sector breakdown
Services: 15.0%
Retail: 5.9%
Industrial cyclicals: 30.2%
Financials: 26.3%
Other: 22.6%
 
Fees
Front-end load: None
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: None
Expense ratio: 0.79%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); OI (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS326111 PLASTICS BAG & POUCH MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); HARBOR CAPITAL ADVISORS INC (55%); OWENS-ILLINOIS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); DIVIDENDS (76%); CASH FLOW (73%); 

PERSON: DEPRINCE, GREGORY M; TIERNEY, DAVID E; GOULD, CAROLE GREGORY M DEPRINCE (95%); DAVID E TIERNEY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



574 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Rough Turf, Even for the Streetwise

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
THE Imperial Credit Commercial Mortgage Investment Corporation, a real estate investment trust, has properties spread from a suburb of Paris to sun-drenched Las Vegas, Nev. But its fate is likely to hinge on what happened earlier this month in a conference room at a Marriott hotel in Torrance, Calif.
REIT's lost their stock market glitz in late 1997 and nearly became a boneyard last fall when investors shunned their risks after the Russian debt crisis. Since then, it has become fashionable to insist that the field offers rich pickings for individual investors looking for bargains. 
 But when H. Wayne Snavely, chairman of Imperial Credit Commercial Mortgage Investment, called a shareholder meeting to order at the Torrance Marriott on June 18, value-happy individual investors were scarce. Instead, he faced about a dozen financially muscular portfolio managers, or their lawyers. Many were there to protest the proposed acquisition of the trust by its publicly traded management company, which is also run by Mr. Snavely.
The management company, Imperial Credit Industries, has offered to buy the trust for $11.50 a share, about 25 cents more than its current trading price and $2.50 less than book value. The institutional investors contend that the trust's assets could fetch at least $13 share in a liquidation or in an auction that was not tilted in favor of the management company.
Mr. Snavely says the trust and its management company will cooperate fully with any competing bidder -- as a shareholder, he said, he too wants the best price for his shares -- but he disagrees that a liquidation will produce anything like the bonus that his institutional investors predict.
The dispute shows the challenge for small investors these days in the REIT market, where the best motto might be: REIT's are for professionals. Don't try this at home.
While the market is filled with trust shares that look cheap by historical standards, those that are also safe are much harder for even professionals to find. By law, such trusts must pay out virtually all their income to shareholders, even when it is more prudent to retain capital. The challenge is to find a trust whose portfolio can withstand that steady outflow of cash without collapsing into debt or excessively diluting the stakes of existing investors.
And even if you find one, the industry is so beset by conflicts of interest that you may need to speak up to protect your interests -- and it is far easier to be heard when you own a million shares or so.
That is about the number of the Imperial trust's 28.5 million outstanding shares that are owned by Third Avenue Funds, which is run by Martin J. Whitman, a value investor who has never been shy about speaking out.
In late May, the trust's independent directors got a polite letter from Michael H. Winer, co-manager of the Third Avenue Real Estate Value fund. He urged the independent directors overseeing the auction to reject the management company's bid and consider instead "an orderly liquidation" of the trust's assets, arguing that bidders are more likely to pay top dollar if they are bidding only for assets they really want. And he questioned the size of the termination fee the management company will get as part of the deal, which some analysts estimated could be as much as $50 million.
Then he made his plans to spend June 18 in Torrance.
About the same time, Gary Frohman was packing his briefcase, too. Mr. Frohman is a portfolio manager for the Alan J. Steinberg L.P. in Coral Gables, Fla., a small investment partnership with about 300,000 of the trust's shares under management.
"We are concerned that the management company is trying to buy the trust at a below-market price," Mr. Frohman said.
Mr. Snavely, wearing his hat as trust chairman, said in an interview that he "appreciates the input of our investors" but disagrees that a liquidation is better than selling the trust intact.
Then he donned his hat as the management company's chairman and explained that the termination fee, which will be set by an independent appraisal, has been capped voluntarily at $35 million.
That is about five times the annual management fee and 10 percent of the market capitalization of the trust, an arrangement Mr. Winer thought "ludicrous"; Mr. Frohman considered it merely "ridiculous."
In any case, the termination fee should be nailed down quickly, Mr. Frohman said, because "it will be difficult or impossible for a third party to make their best bid without knowing what this obligation will be."
The fee dispute shows how the management company's insider status could discourage other bidders, several big shareholders said. But Mr. Snavely said he was confident that adequate due diligence by an outside bidder would keep the field level.
The management company and its officers own about 12 percent of the trust's shares, he pointed out, so "if somebody wants to pay more, we will appreciate it." But he is not optimistic, he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "Land Grab"
Shareholders of Imperial Credit Commercial Mortgage Investment, a real estate investment trust, have suffered since it was spun off from its parent in 1997. Now its former owner, Imperial Credit Industries, wants to buy it back at what some investors consider a bargain price. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ICII (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: IMPERIAL CREDIT COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE INVESTMENT CORP; IMPERIAL CREDIT INDUSTRIES IMPERIAL CREDIT COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE INVESTMENT CORP (93%); IMPERIAL CREDIT INDUSTRIES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMPERIAL CREDIT COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE INVESTMENT CORP; IMPERIAL CREDIT INDUSTRIES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS REAL ESTATE (92%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (75%); ACQUISITIONS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (69%); LAWYERS (67%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B H WAYNE SNAVELY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



575 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2764 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Trading In Bonds On Line, At Last

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: HARRISBURG, Pa.

 BODY:
IT was a bold experiment in cyberspace finance, and at 11:30 one recent Tuesday morning, it was about to be tested in the real market.
Robert A. Schoch, business manager of the Lancaster, Pa., school district, huddled around a computer screen with Louis J. Verdelli and other advisers here, waiting to see if anyone would bid over the Internet for $29.2 million of the district's bonds. 
 Five minutes, then 10, went by without a bid. Mr. Schoch grew apprehensive. Then, just as the noon deadline for the auction was drawing near, the screen came alive. Offers appeared from as far away as Utah.
At last Mr. Schoch allowed a smile to crease his poker face. The district's first Internet financing had succeeded.
The Lancaster auction was one small part of an accelerating electronic revolution. The bond market -- both for new issues like Lancaster's and for trading in existing bonds -- is being dragged out of the dark ages of fragmentation and opaque pricing, and thrown into a fiercely competitive and still ill-defined future.
"There's a thick veil of secrecy in the bond market," said Marilyn Cohen, president of Envision Capital Management, a fixed-income specialist in Los Angeles. "It's one of the last dinosaurs to fall."
By replacing old bonds with new through the electronic auction, Lancaster will save $1.1 million, plugging an immediate budget hole and allowing the city, the thrifty heart of Amish country, to avoid raising taxes next year. Lancaster's advisers say the savings come from the bigger market created by the Internet, which drew distant underwriters who had rarely vied for Pennsylvania school bonds.
"We think the impact of that is to lower their interest rates," said Mr. Verdelli, senior managing consultant at Public Financial Management, the adviser who arranged the bidding on a system run by a Pittsburgh-based creature of the Internet, MuniAuction.
Click-of-the-mouse bidding on new issues is a striking leap forward from past practice in the bond industry. Like most issuers, both municipal and corporate, Lancaster used to negotiate bond deals with a single underwriter; in many places, bidders must still show up in person to drop a written bid into the equivalent of a ballot box.
And the upheaval in the secondary markets, where dealers, brokers and investors trade bonds after they are issued, is bound to prove more profound. After all, some $350 billion of bonds and other debt securities are traded daily, 12 times the volume on the New York Stock Exchange.
Most stock trades are executed on exchange floors or through Nasdaq's electronic dealer network, and each trade's volume and price is immediately displayed to all. Not so with bonds, which change hands much as they have for most of the century, mainly through a patchwork of private channels. Bond trading on the New York Stock Exchange is trivial, confined mainly to small lots.
"If there was ever a market that needed liquidity and transparency, it's fixed income," said Douglas M. Atkin, president of Instinet. His firm, a unit of Reuters, operates the biggest private stock-trading service for institutions. And later this year, Instinet plans to start a dealer-to-dealer bond-trading service, initially for United States Treasuries.
 
Unheard Upheaval
While there are big changes under way in the bond business, they have attracted far less attention than the more advanced revolution in stocks, where instantaneously available prices have made possible a frenzy of speculative activity and driven even Merrill Lynch to announce a plan for cut-rate commissions.
But the impact could be just as far-reaching. Already, spreads -- the difference between the prices at which professionals buy bonds and the prices at which they sell them -- are beginning to narrow, eating into bond dealers' profits. So, naturally, the dealers are trying to hold off the electronic tide. And brokers, the middlemen between investors and dealers, worry about survival in a world where investors have new power.
Changes in how bonds trade are not always visible to ordinary investors, most of whom own bonds only through mutual funds. But ruptures in the system tend to echo loudly.
An example was the virtual paralysis of the market for any bonds other than Treasuries in the latter part of 1998, when foreign turmoil touched off a ferocious flight to quality. The Federal Reserve found itself obliged to engineer a rescue of a big hedge fund that had bet disastrously on historic relationships among various types of bonds. Surging interest rates shook stock markets.
But while prices of securities can move at the speed of light, market structures have been slow to change, and then only under duress, as when industrywide fixed commissions for stocks were abolished in 1975.
Back then, Congress charged the Securities and Exchange Commission with overseeing the creation of integrated markets for both stocks and bonds. The bond part of the mandate has largely been ignored.
But now the pace is picking up: Arthur Levitt, the chairman of the S.E.C., is pushing bond market openness. And this month, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed a bill that would direct the commission to adopt rules for collecting and publishing price, volume and other transaction data for corporate bonds, and to enforce the rules within a year. (The measure has no Senate counterpart yet.)
Initially, modernizing bond markets will benefit mainly institutional investors, but consumers stand to gain indirectly through their stakes in mutual funds, pensions and retirement accounts. Taxpayers will gain in places like Lancaster that exploit the new systems. And within a few years, retail customers are very likely to be in possession of basic information about bonds like transaction charges and meaningful market prices. Until now, ignorance has cost them more than $20 billion a year, by one estimate.
"The fixed-income investor is the odd-man out in the market," said Arthur F. Goat, a retiree in Short Hills, N.J. "You're flying blind."
Dominated by the giant dealers who benefit most from the status quo, the Bond Market Association, the industry's chief trade group, has lobbied hard to slow and restrict the modernization process. The industry has pledged to improve transparency in the corporate bond markets, but says it is concerned that the costs involved might outweigh the benefits by impeding trading activity and harming market liquidity.
But, prodded by regulators and some in Congress to fill the market's information vacuum, even the trade group sees the writing on the wall.
"Electronic trading systems are rapidly becoming essential tools in the portfolio and trading operations of both sell-side and buy-side participants in the United States fixed-income securities markets," the association's director of research, Andy Nybo, acknowledged in his survey of 1998 industry developments.
 
Buying Debt in the Dark
As a result of the market's fragmentation, even professional investors face serious disadvantages in trading corporate and municipal bonds. To get a market price, they must conduct an unwieldy and imprecise shopping expedition among a dozen or more dealers, or rely on what one dealer tells them -- or, for less active issues, fall back on what may be little more than a wild guess.
Individual investors, who hold only 5 percent of corporate but 30 percent of muni bonds, have even less clout.
In municipal bonds, for example, the best an individual investor can do is to view the prior day's prices for 1,300 or so issues that may have traded, out of 1.4 million outstanding, on a Web site run by the bond association (www.bondmarkets.com). Some of those -- there is no telling which -- are dealer-to-dealer prices unavailable to ordinary investors.
With comparison shopping so difficult, dealers can charge large markups, especially on lesser-quality bonds, and generally get the better of any bargain. Quoted prices can be all over the map. On Friday afternoon, for example, different dealers were offering Ford Motor Credit 5 3/4 percent notes due in February 2004 at anywhere from $95.472 (yielding 6.9 percent) to $96.034 (yielding 6.75 percent) per $100.
"Price competition is at the heart of the free-market system," said Representative Michael Oxley, an Ohio Republican who heads a House subcommittee that held a hearing on bond trading last September. "And you can't have true competition if people have a hard time figuring out exactly what they're paying."
That is a big reason the industry has dragged its feet: dealers' fear that the traditionally wide spreads in bond trading will shrink.
"The people who are living off the spreads, their profits are going to come down," said Frank D. Korth, a portfolio manager at the National City Investment Management Company in Cleveland.
 
Squeezing Intermediaries
Threatened, too, are the firms that advise issuers and underwrite bond issues. "The intermediaries are scared to death," said Myles Harrington, a founder of MuniAuction, the firm that owns the system used in the Lancaster auction. Last month, the company drew a $6 million investment from the Carlyle Group, a private Washington investment firm whose principals include former Treasury Secretary James Baker 3d and Frank Carlucci, a former Defense Secretary.
As with Merrill Lynch's belated decision to embrace on-line stock trading, bond dealers are being forced to weigh what they would lose in narrower spreads against the risk of losing business to upstarts and the possibility that trading volume would rise if investors found the market less treacherous.
An early effort to breach the wall was Capitalink, J. P. Morgan's 1989 venture into direct sales of corporate bonds to institutional investors, bypassing other financial institutions.
Traditional bond market players howled. "The competitive threat Capitalink poses to our industry cannot be overemphasized," a Merrill Lynch official, Richard Fuscone, wrote in a memo quoted in a 1996 paper by Robert J. Kauffman of the University of Minnesota and Arthur R. Kennedy 3d of Morgan. After Merrill bought an entire issue of Deere & Company notes at a dog-in-the-manger price to pre-empt its trading on Capitalink, Morgan gave up.
In the early 1990's, Larry E. Fondren, an entrepreneur who ran a sort of computer-dating service for insurance companies -- arranging joint ventures and advising on mergers and reinsurance -- tried his hand. He set up Intervest Financial Services, which allowed clients to trade anonymously with one another and with dealers, and tried to negotiate a deal to link it to computer terminals of Bloomberg L.P., then on 60,000 clients' desks.
Mr. Fondren struck a deal in 1995, but Bloomberg pulled the plug after six months, partly relented, and then cut Intervest off for good in 1998, said Mr. Fondren, who has filed a breach-of-contract suit.
In court papers, Mr. Fondren said Bloomberg told him it had acted at the insistence of bond dealers, because clients were getting too much price information.
A spokesman for Bloomberg, which is partly owned by Merrill, said that Intervest was dropped because of low trading activity and that the allegations were groundless.
Merrill itself has had a change of heart since it helped thwart Capitalink. "Ten years ago, we did not believe electronic distribution was in the best interests of clients or the industry," said Timothy Gilles, a Merrill spokesman. But the markets and technology have evolved, and Merrill now backs electronic trading, he said.
In any event, the concept is back with a vengeance. The Bond Market Association says there are now more than two dozen electronic systems for marketing or trading bonds. At the start of 1998, there were 11. "It's a brave new world out there," said Edwin McGuinn, president of Limitrader Securities, one dealer that has hung out a cybershingle.
Entrants in the electronic race include individual entrepreneurs, banks, securities dealers, bond brokers and information purveyors like Bloomberg and Reuters. Most focus on attracting institutional buyers of bonds, whose high volume they hope will make their systems viable.
Just last week, a consortium of seven giant financial-services companies announced a new trading system for dealers, called Brokertec.
So far, most of the electronic systems are bulletin boards for dealers to post offerings; final prices are set when trades are consummated by phone. In a few cases, buyers and sellers see prices on the screen at which they can count on executing a trade. Other systems bring dealers and institutions together for real-time trading or periodic order-matching sessions, with traders' anonymity a big selling point.
Then there are the new-issue auction systems like MuniAuction, which make possible innovations like bidding on selected maturities out of a series that formerly had to be bought in its entirety
Moreover, bidders see where their offers rank (though not their rivals' specific bids) and are free to raise their bids repeatedly, as some did in the Lancaster auction. In traditional auctions, bidders get just one shot.
Lancaster's electronic auction of new bonds is one of about 200 such municipal borrowings since Muni Auction's first deal in late 1997. As for corporations, many now routinely market commercial paper -- short-term i.o.u.'s -- directly to investors, bypassing broker-dealers, and there are systems being developed for selling longer-term corporate debt this way. The Government's Treasury Direct program allows investors with as little as $1,000 to bid for new bills, notes and bonds.
 
A Certain Inevitability
But while the old methods are crumbling, the process is likely to take several years -- and it may never make bonds as transparent as stocks.
Micah S. Green, executive vice president of the Bond Market Association, told a House panel in March that he supported the goals of the proposed legislation. He said, too, that his group would soon add to its Web site the previous day's dealer-to-dealer prices for 100 or so of the most active investment-grade corporate bonds. (The new data are due to make their debut this week.)
But he sought to persuade lawmakers that there were key differences in bond and stock markets. For instance, he said, most bonds do not trade actively: only 4 percent of about 400,000 corporate issues outstanding in 1996 traded even once that year. He also contended that too much transparency could increase volatility in thin markets.
"Revealing prices and trading volumes instantaneously could hurt market liquidity," Mr. Green said, by, say, making it obvious when someone was trying to unwind a large position piecemeal. He asked Congress to choose evolutionary change, led by the private sector, over Government-mandated change.
Whichever path is chosen, it is clear that the bond business is galloping toward an automated future with fewer intermediaries.
Until recently, "if you wanted to sell a block of $10 million in municipal bonds, you'd call up 20 brokers and ask them to give you a bid," said Peter J. Allegrini, managing director of Prudential Investments, who runs a portfolio of high-yield municipals. "Today, you plug your bonds into the Bloomberg and press a couple of buttons, and the whole process is down to 15 minutes."
In a few years, perhaps one-third of trades in Treasury debt will take place electronically, said F. James Claire, director of taxable fixed-income trading for a unit of First Union Bank in Charlotte, N.C.
But if Mr. Claire's attitudes reflect those of many bond traders, electronic trading will develop more slowly in markets for corporate and tax-exempt bonds, where trading is thinner.
There simply is no substitute in a decentralized market, he said, for communicating by voice with the other players. "You want to be able to talk to a guy and hear noise in the background; you need that color to hear what's going on," Mr. Claire said. "You're not going to get any color looking at the screen."
Moreover, he said, screen updates sometimes lag when trading action heats up, and electronic screens do not leave behind as solid a transaction record as do telephone calls, which are routinely recorded.
So, much of Mr. Levitt's lament about the least-liquid sectors of the bond market seems likely to linger. "The sad truth," he said, "is that investors in the corporate bond market do not enjoy the same access to information as a car buyer or a home buyer or, dare I say, a fruit buyer. And that's unacceptable."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Louis J. Verdelli, center, a financial adviser, showed Robert A. Schoch, left, the business manager of the public school district in Lancaster, Pa., the on-line system for selling $29.2 million of the district's bonds. (John Zeedick for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Chart: "Behind From the Start"
When retail investors buy bonds directly, they pay high transaction costs, without the discount trading channels available for stocks. They also pay higher prices than institutions do for the same bonds, reducing their effective yield.
 
Example: Stocks vs. Bonds
$25,000 Revlon stock
870 shares at $28.75 bought on the New York Stock Exchange. The investor pays a commission on the trade.
 
Full-service broker:
Merrill Lynch: $421
 
Discount broker:
Quick & Reilly: $120
 
Internet trading:
E*Trade: $15
 
$25,000 Revlon bonds
25 bonds of $1,000 face value due Feb. 1, 2008, paying 858%, bought from dealer inventory. At the recently quoted price of 96.5, the investor pays $965 for each $1,000 of face value; the spread, or dealer's profit, is one point or $10.
 
Cost to investor: $250
 
Example: Individuals vs. Institutions
State of California noncallable general obligation bonds, 514%, due Oct. 1, 2009. A dealer recently offered $1.5 million in bonds at $104.85 for each $100 of face value, equivalent to a yield of 4.65%.
 
An institutional investor bidding for 200 bonds ($200,000 in face value) would typically get these results:
 
Yield: 4.70%
Price: $104.432 per $100 face value
 
A retail investor bidding for 25 bonds ($25,000 in face value) would typically get these results:
 
Yield: 4.50%
Price: $106.10 per $100 face value
 
Over all, the retail investor pays $417 more on a $25,000 investment.
(Source: Envision Capital Management)(pg. 10)
 
Chart: "The Digital Bond Market"
Electronic trading systems are becoming essential tools in the market for fixed-income securities. Here are the principal entries so far.
 
Dealer Systems
Institutional customers trade with one or more dealers, but not with one another.
 
SINGLE-DEALER
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Autobahn Electronic Trading (Deutsche Bank)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: 1996
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Bear Stearns
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: April 1998
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Credit Suisse First Boston
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: 1993
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Fixed Income Securities Inc.
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: Y
Municipal: Y
BEGAN: N.A.
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Fuji Securities
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: 1995
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): LMS (Merrill Lynch Capital Markets)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: Y
BEGAN: 1989
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Morgan Stanley Dean Witter
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: 1996
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Ragen MacKenzie
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: 1995
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Spear, Leeds & Kellogg
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: Y
Municipal: Y
BEGAN: Feb. 1998
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Winstar Government Securities Co.
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: 1994
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Zions Govrate/Odd-Lot Machine (Zions Bank Capital Markets)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: 1990
 
MULTIDEALER
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Bloomberg Bondtrader
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: March 1999
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): QV Trading Systems
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: Y
Municipal: Y
BEGAN: Pending
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): TradeWeb
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: Jan. 1998
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Variable Rate Trading System (Dalcomp-Thomson Financial Services)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: N
Corporate: N
Municipal: Y
BEGAN: 1984
 
Cross-Matching Systems
Participants trade with one another anonymously.
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Automated Bond System (N.Y.S.E.)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: Y
Municipal: Y
BEGAN: 1977
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Bond Connect (State Street)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: Y
Municipal: N
BEGAN: Pending
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Bondlink (Trading Edge)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: N
Corporate: Y
Municipal: N
BEGAN: April 1999
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Bondnet (Bank of New York)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: Y
Municipal: N
BEGAN: 1995
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Brokertec Global (Citigroup, Credit Suisse First Boston, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: Pending
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Cantor Speed (Cantor Fitzgerald)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: Feb. 1999
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Instinet Fixed Income
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: Pending
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Intervest
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: Y
Municipal: Y
BEGAN: Pending
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Libertydirect (Liberty Brokerage)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: Pending
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Limitrader (Limitrader Securities)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: N
Corporate: Y
Municipal: N
BEGAN: Pending
 
Primary Market Bidding Systems
Dealers bid directly on new issues.
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Bloomberg Municipal System
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: N
Corporate: N
Municipal: Y
BEGAN: June 1998
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): MuniAuction
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: N
Corporate: N
Municipal: Y
BEGAN: 1997
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Parity (Dalcomp-Thomson Financial Services)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: N
Corporate: N
Municipal: Y
BEGAN: Sept. 1998
 
Direct Issuance Systems
Investors buy securities directly from the issuer.
 
SYSTEM (COMPANY NAME): Treasury Direct (Treasury Department)
TYPES OF BONDS TRADED
Treasury: Y
Corporate: N
Municipal: N
BEGAN: Sept. 1998
(Source: The Bond Market Association)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANCASTER, PA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); DEBT FINANCING (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



576 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
A Shoe on the Other Foot

BYLINE: By JIM SCHACHTER 

 BODY:
Dennis D. Dammerman, the longtime General Electric finance chief who recently became chief executive of the relentlessly profitable GE Capital Services unit, has a no-nonsense, tough-guy reputation.
But on Thursday in a talk at the Japan Society in Manhattan, he took pains to speak warmly about Japan, its economic reforms and its companies, in which GE Capital has invested about $14 billion lately. 
 When a Japanese reporter dared to ask, though, whether rising unemployment there was spurring nationalistic resentment toward companies like G.E. that are going on shopping sprees, it was the rougher Dammerman who responded.
"Hey, my Manhattan office is in 30 Rockefeller Plaza," he shot back, calling to mind the 1989 purchase of the building by the Mitsubishi Estate Company as a flush Japan collected trophy properties across America. "There was a little resentment here, too." ("Thirty Rock" returned to American hands in 1996.)
Mr. Dammerman's more measured response was that he did not expect an anti-American backlash among Japanese consumers. JIM SCHACHTER 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (95%); GEC (LSE) (95%); GE (SWX) (95%); GE (NYSE) (95%); 8802 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (84%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (84%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (84%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (84%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (84%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (84%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (84%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GE CAPITAL GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (95%); MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GE CAPITAL

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC) EXECUTIVES (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); TRENDS (70%); 

PERSON: DAMMERMAN, DENNIS D; MYERSON, ALLEN R DENNIS D DAMMERMAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



577 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
George W. Bush Crams for the White House

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

 BODY:
When meeting with his policy experts, many of them alumni of his father's Presidency, George W. Bush is said to project an air of confidence if not entitlement. "I am going to be the next President," he declares, according to one adviser. "I need your help, not to become President, but to be a good President." By all accounts, the Texas Governor who studied at Yale and Harvard is not only running hard for the White House. He is also cramming for it like someone facing the ultimate final exam.
For now, the faculty of George Bush University is just getting to know its prized student. But one thing is already clear. Though there are many Bush veterans, they are of a different cast from those who advised his father: more conservative in foreign policy and more moderate domestically than Republican leaders in Congress, a fact that has begun to alarm many on the right. 
 The foreign policy team assembled by Governor Bush is headed by Condoleezza Rice, the departing provost of Stanford University and a specialist on the Soviet Union on President Bush's national security staff. In what almost seems like a generational revolt by the Governor, the team conspicuously lacks the main players surrounding President Bush, like former Secretaries of State James Baker and Lawrence Eagleburger, and Brent Scowcroft, the Bush national security aide.
Yet when you talk to the Governor's people about foreign policy, there is a tone of restoration that comes through, as if they aim to get back to the values of strength and firmness of the Republican White Houses of old. The Governor's foreign policy people say Mr. Bush will be more skeptical than his father toward the United Nations and other multinational organizations and more willing to embrace explicitly the idea of American global supremacy. He is said to favor a tougher stance toward rogue states like North Korea and Iraq, and to see China and Russia more as rivals than partners, another contrast with his father.
It is not, most Bush aides hasten to say, that the Governor is repudiating the teachings of his father. Rather, they say, times have changed and the glow of friendship and cooperation in the aftermath of the cold war is gone. But those looking for a generational grudge match might find it in Mr. Bush's particular disdain for Strobe Talbott, President Clinton's Deputy Secretary of State, who is the Administration's apostle of establishing a working relationship with Russia and Boris Yeltsin. "Strobe Talbott has been wrong for 30 years," an adviser quoted the young Mr. Bush as saying. "I knew him at Yale."
President Bush seemed to love nothing more than meeting with heads of state. Governor Bush has hardly met any, at least by himself. On domestic affairs, he is said to have strong views, and they are distinctly more moderate than the ones heard in Congress these days. Lawrence Lindsey, the former Federal Reserve Board member who is his chief economic adviser, and Mayor Stephen Goldsmith of Indianapolis reflect that attitude. On tax cuts, Mr. Lindsey talks of cutting the marginal rates, but emphasizes the importance of tax cuts for the lower end of the economic spectrum. Asked by The Weekly Standard whether he embraced the traditional conservative position of lowering or eliminating the capital gains tax, Mr. Lindsey said: "Maybe it's the populist in me, but capital should be taxed."
In Congress, the Republican leadership has almost nothing good to say about the role of government in public life. But at his inaugural speech as Governor last January, Mr. Bush said: "Government can't solve all our problems. Economic growth can't solve all our problems. In fact, we're now putting too much hope in economics, just as we once put too much hope in government." Mr. Bush favors more government spending for schools and, to help people get off welfare, for day care. Contrast that with the recent speech by Tom DeLay, the Republican whip, citing day care as a factor in the decline of American values.
The difference with Congress is so great that Mr. Bush had to reassure Republicans in Washington last week that he would not, as some fear, run against them in the election. Those words could be put to the test if Congress proceeds with punitive budget cuts in coming weeks. At the photo session Mr. Bush did not appear with the two Texans most associated with hard-line conservatism, Mr. DeLay and Dick Armey, the House majority leader.
As Mr. Bush moves to flesh out what he means by "compassionate conservatism," a phrase that both the left and the right find condescending, his views may rankle people in some unlikely quarters -- the believers in global interdependence who surrounded his father and the believers in less government at all costs who now dominate the party in Congress. It could turn out to be a much more interesting campaign than even the Republicans have bargained for. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 US PRESIDENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); COLD WAR (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (73%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



578 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON PLANNING TO CUT LONG-TERM COST OF MEDICARE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
President Clinton will try to reconcile two seemingly contradictory goals next week when he unveils a plan to cut the long-term cost of Medicare while expanding the program to cover prescription drugs, Administration officials said today.
His plan would make structural changes in Medicare to encourage competition and efficiency in the care of the elderly and the disabled. It would also require major new infusions of cash from the Federal Treasury, said officials who are putting final details of the plan in place. 
 The officials said Mr. Clinton would insist that the Government offer drug coverage to all 39 million Medicare beneficiaries. Drug coverage should be "universal, voluntary and heavily subsidized," a White House official said.
By contrast, Republicans and some Democrats in Congress want to start gradually, by covering medicines for the lower-income beneficiaries who most need assistance.
Regardless of what happens to his proposal, Mr. Clinton will reshape the debate simply by demanding that coverage of prescription drugs be made available to all Americans over the age of 64 and to those of any age who are severely disabled.
"Saying that the benefit has to be universal is a major contribution to the debate," said Martin A. Corry, director of Federal affairs at the American Association of Retired Persons.
Though often lost in the hubbub over new benefits, the original reason for trying to redesign Medicare was to avert a financial crisis. Administration officials said the President's plan would keep Medicare solvent in these ways:
*The Federal Government would steer Medicare patients to certain hospitals that promise to give the Government a deep discount on complicated, expensive procedures like heart bypass surgery and hip replacement operations. Many studies have found a higher quality of care at hospitals that perform a large number of such procedures.
*Medicare would use competitive bidding to buy a wide range of goods and services, including hospital beds, wheelchairs and other medical equipment. The Government would also try to negotiate prices far below those set in existing fee schedules.
*Medicare would get a huge infusion of cash from the Federal Treasury: $700 billion, representing about 15 percent of Federal budget surpluses anticipated over the next 15 years.
A remarkable transformation seems to have occurred in the last year. The question now is not whether Medicare should cover prescription drugs, but how.
Disagreements over that question, including the sheer complexity of designing a benefit affordable to both elderly people and to the Treasury, could easily stymie efforts to provide drug coverage in this Congress. But the issue will become more urgent as 76 million baby boomers qualify for Medicare over the next three decades.
Chris Jennings, the President's health policy coordinator, said: "The desired outcome is to cover prescription drugs for everybody. That's the approach we're contemplating. Large numbers of middle- and upper-income Medicare beneficiaries have little or no drug coverage, but high out-of-pocket drug costs. If you target the solution to low-income people, you're not taking care of the problem at all.
"Beneficiaries have paid for Medicare throughout their working careers," Mr. Jennings said. "If you say that certain people on Medicare can have drug coverage and others don't, you will undermine the broad support that exists for the program."
Mr. Clinton will depict drug coverage as one element in a comprehensive plan to shore up Medicare, White House officials said. But health policy experts and politicians doubt that Medicare can be "fixed" by the passage of one bill, however comprehensive. In the next two decades, they predict, Congress will continually tinker with the program, searching for ways to enhance benefits while trimming payments to hospitals, doctors and other health care providers.
Almost every type of health care provider is pleading with Congress to restore Medicare money cut just two years ago by the Balanced Budget Act. Thus, beneficiaries, eager for drug coverage, and health care providers have competing claims to the same pot of money.
Administration officials said they were ready to portray the coming debate over Medicare as a struggle between needy beneficiaries and a greedy health care industry. So far, they said, the 1997 cuts appear to have done more harm to the financial condition of the industry than to the health of beneficiaries.
Nursing homes, home care agencies and health maintenance organizations have been complaining bitterly about the cuts. But Mr. Corry of the A.A.R.P. said, "There has not been a spontaneous outcry among beneficiaries, or an upsurge in complaints about denial of access to home care, nursing homes or hospitals."
Mr. Clinton describes affordable prescription drugs as "the greatest growing need of seniors." And he notes that drugs have become an integral, indispensable part of modern medical care.
Elderly people use one-third of all prescription drugs sold in the United States. On average, each Medicare beneficiary has more than 18 prescriptions filled each year.
But the White House says that 15.5 million Medicare beneficiaries have no insurance for prescription drugs, and 6 million of those beneficiaries have incomes more than twice the official poverty level. The poverty level this year is $8,240 for an individual and $11,060 for a couple.
Virtually every member of Congress has heard pleas from constituents unable to afford medicines they need. "The public in America is getting gouged," said Senator Richard H. Bryan, Democrat of Nevada. "That's what our constituents tell us."
But Congress is cautious, and the reason can be summarized in one word: cost.
From 1992 to 1997, national spending on prescription drugs grew by an average of 11 percent a year, which is more than double the 5 percent rate for health care spending over all. The increase reflects the development of new, more expensive, more effective drug therapies and greater use of prescription drugs, driven in part by more aggressive marketing aimed directly at consumers.
Insurers and health maintenance organizations report that drugs are their fastest-growing cost.
Medicaid, the Federal-state program for poor families, does cover prescription drugs, and even though it gets substantial discounts from manufacturers, Medicaid now spends more on drugs than on doctors' services.
Kevin W. Concannon, the Commissioner of Human Services in Maine, said the state's Medicaid program spent $140 million a year on prescription drugs, compared with $40 million on doctors' services.
Stephen J. deMontmollin, vice president of Avmed Health Plan, a large nonprofit H.M.O. in Florida, said drug spending for his members rose 33 percent last year, to $115 million.
At a Congressional hearing this week, Republican Senators like William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and John H. Chafee of Rhode Island expressed support for Medicare coverage of drugs, but said it should be provided first to the neediest beneficiaries. Moderate Democratic Senators like John B. Breaux of Louisiana and Max Baucus of Montana agreed.
Mr. Grassley, the chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, expressed the view of the Republican majority. He cautioned against "any rich new benefit" and said, "A targeted approach, focusing on low-income seniors, is the best solution."
Senator Breaux was chairman of a 17-member commission that was supposed to advise Congress and the President on the future of Medicare. The panel did not agree on much, but did provide authoritative bipartisan backing for the view that Medicare is antiquated because it does not cover prescription drugs.
Mr. Breaux proposed drug coverage for 3 million low-income beneficiaries, and he said it would cost the Government $60 billion over 10 years. The White House rejected the proposal as "inadequate and inefficient."
Liberal Democrats, led by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Representatives Henry A. Waxman and Pete Stark of California, agree with President Clinton that drug coverage should be available to all beneficiaries.
Medicare beneficiaries now pay a premium of $45.50 a month. Under current law, with no change in benefits, the monthly premium is expected to double in a decade, to $101 in 2009. Any premium for prescription drug coverage would be added to that.
John D. Podesta, the White House chief of staff, said the poorest people would not have to pay the full premium for drug coverage under Mr. Clinton's plan. "Some people will get help with the premium at the lower end of the scale," he said.
Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a consumer group, said, "It makes sense for seniors to pay a significant part of the cost through a premium." But, he said, it is "absolutely essential" for the Government to pay the premiums for Medicare beneficiaries with incomes as much as 35 percent above the poverty level.
"Administration officials told me they were willing to pay the full premium on the drug benefit for people with incomes up to 120 percent of the poverty level," Mr. Pollack said. "I urged them to do better than that, to go to 135 percent."
Low-income beneficiaries are already eligible for Federal assistance in paying their basic Medicare premiums. But in studies going back to 1991, Mr. Pollack has repeatedly documented the failure of the Federal Government and the states to locate the people eligible for such subsidies.
Medicare officials have told the White House that if Medicare begins to cover prescription drugs, many more low-income people would have an incentive to step forward and claim the Federal subsidies to which they are entitled. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AARP INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MEDICARE (92%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOSPITALS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AGING (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); ORTHOPEDICS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (68%); BABY BOOMERS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



579 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: A Drought Emergency Is Declared In Arizona

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, June 26

 BODY:
With grazing lands parched after Arizona's third-driest winter in a century, Gov. Jane Dee Hull has declared a statewide drought emergency so that struggling ranchers can qualify for tax breaks.
A lack of snow through the winter and too little rain since have stunted grazing grass and dried up ponds and other surface water sources, forcing many ranchers to haul feed and water to their livestock or take the animals to market early. 
 In New Mexico, which provides 60 percent of the nation's base chili products, including powdered chili and paprika, chili stands in some fields are so sparse that farmers are considering plowing them under.
Economists are still weighing the financial impact of a dismal growing season, but they estimate losses for chili farmers could reach $30 million, half the value of last year's crop.
Similar problems are facing farmers in the East. Portions of the South, Midwest and Northeast are being slowly strangled by a spotty, but tenacious, drought that has been spreading for several months.
In New England, crops are withering in the fields or simply failing to sprout, while firefighters keep an eye out for brush fires and forest fires. The Southeast is suffering its second-driest spring in a century.
Mrs. Hull's declaration, issued Wednesday, will help ranchers qualify for reduced taxes on livestock sales forced by the drought.
Heavy summer rains would be a better solution, said Jeff Menges, whose family has ranches near Clifton and Safford in southeastern Arizona.
"We need the relief right now," said Mr. Menges, whose family has already sold 15 percent of its herd. "We didn't get any growth in the spring and winter because it is just too dry. We're hoping that the summer monsoon will just bail us out."
Arizona's winter precipitation this year was the third-lowest since 1895, the Eastern Arizona Counties Organization said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (96%); ARIZONA, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; DROUGHT; LIVESTOCK; CATTLE DROUGHT (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); FOREST FIRES (71%); FIRES (71%); WATER QUALITY (56%); 

PERSON: HULL, JANE DEE (GOV) JEFF MENGES (74%); JANE DEE HULL (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



580 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1824 words

HEADLINE: From High School to Real World;
For Graduates Skipping College, the Future is Now

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
For most high school seniors, the months leading up to graduation mean decisions about where to go to college. But for Johana Santos, Anthony Rose, Angel Ramos, Michael Loza and Coreen Reid, all seniors at Evander Childs High School in the Bronx, the decisions they had to make were about what to do instead.
As their high school days waned, the five seniors found themselves among a distinct minority of New York City students -- those finishing high school but, for reasons of money or temperament or ability, not going on to college. 
 Each year, according to Board of Education surveys, fewer than 20 percent of graduating seniors say they do not plan to go on to college in the fall, although the board keeps no data on how many students actually enroll.
For Ms. Santos, 17, and Mr. Rose, 18, both dedicated members of the Junior Reserve Officers Training Corps and both unable to afford college, the choice was simple: for her the Air Force, for him the Army.
For Mr. Loza, 18, the family cook and a student of culinary arts, the choice was to find a way to the French Culinary Institute, or find a job on a cruise ship or in a restaurant.
For Ms. Reid, 19, who has been an intern for two years at Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center in the Bronx, it was to seek vocational training to become a nurse's aide.
For Mr. Ramos, 18, the future stretches before him like an empty essay page.
"I've got a lot of thinking to do this summer," he said several weeks ago.
With at least a stab at college now an American rite of passage, the economic and psychological pressures on students like those at Evander Childs seem to have only increased. For such graduates, finishing high school can be a little like letting go of one trapeze bar before the next one is in sight: scary, unstructured and rarely exhilarating.
"It's finally hit me," Mr. Loza said. "I'm getting out of here and I'm not going to have this place to protect me."
Their decisions not to pursue college can be traced to a mix of shared circumstances and individual concerns. Some of the students lacked confidence or had a mind or temperament unsuited to academic pursuits -- or much better suited to something else. For others, being the first member of their generation in their family to graduate from high school was accomplishment enough.
And for all of them, money was a driving factor: either as a bar to higher education, or as an impetus to start working now to secure their own income.
Mr. Ramos, whose mother is a nurse's aide and whose father is dead, said he had wanted to go to college and study computer engineering, but he did not apply because he was unsure that he would pass his Regents Competency Tests. He is the only one of his friends to successfully complete high school, but he still feels as if the train is leaving the station without him.
He decided not to go to Friday's graduation ceremony anyway, he said. But if he were going to college, he said, toughness and sadness fighting for mastery of his thin face, "I would go on a long cruise or something. I'd be thinking different."
Mr. Rose, a lanky, serious youth whose father is a carpenter and whose mother does not work, said he did not want to have to work and study at the same time. After boot camp, he will work for the Army as an operating room specialist in Oklahoma. Eventually, he hopes to go to college and study computer engineering.
Ms. Reid, whose mother, a widow, is a home care aide, said she had hoped that the military would pay her way to college, but she did not pass the test for the Army.
Mr. Loza, the son of a nurse and a carpenter, said that for now, he wanted to do something he enjoyed, like cooking. He said he would go to college and study psychology "later in life, when I'm planted with a car and family."
Ms. Santos is a sparkling, confident 17-year-old. Her mother cares for six foster children; her father, with whom she does not live, owns delicatessens and convenience stores. She said financial obstacles made college impossible right now.
Yet for young adults without a college degree, career options continue to shrink. In New York City, the unemployment rate for those with only a high school diploma is double that for those with a college degree. Many jobs in the city, like those on the police force, now require some college education. And the number of other jobs, like those in manufacturing, have dwindled. High school graduates are increasingly consigned to service, sales or administrative jobs that may offer little chance of upward mobility. That is particularly true in the Bronx, where unemployment is nearly double the city average and there is fierce competition for low-skilled jobs.
Unsurprisingly, those jobs tend to pay far less than those that workers with even some college education can fill. A New York City high school graduate's mean weekly earnings in 1997 were $486, compared with $808 for a college graduate, according to the City Housing Authority.
But there still are acceptable jobs for those without a college education, including in traditional trades like plumbing and in several branches of the Civil Service, like the Fire Department.
And with the right training, said Steven Feldman, the director of the Board of Education's School to Career office, some students can go straight from high school into highly specialized, well-paying jobs -- $45,000 per year to make computer networks run, for example.
There are 20 vocational high schools in New York City, and many more that offer occupational training of all sorts -- travel and tourism, agriculture, dental assistant work, and so on. The schools are increasingly trying to link with industry, so that graduates will not only meet industry standards but also be able to move from school straight into work. The models are programs like Project Pathways, through which about 200 high school graduates become construction union apprentices each year.
To different degrees, the Evander Childs graduates have benefited from programs intended to prepare them for the workaday world. Mr. Loza, for example, has been taking classes in the culinary arts program at the School of Cooperative Technical Education in Manhattan for a year and a half.
But Evander Childs's principal, Richard Urovsky, said he did not believe that the schools were doing enough to prepare students not headed to college.
He is among many principals and guidance counselors who are questioning how the new graduation standards being phased in statewide will affect the students uninterested in college or unable to pursue it. Now that each student has to pass five Regents exams, he said, everyone will be on a college track.
"What if someone doesn't want to go to college? Does it prepare him for a job?" he asked of the standards.
Critics of the new standards say students unlikely to go on to college may not only have the hardest time meeting the new requirements and obtaining a high school diploma, but also may have less time for vocational training.
"The Board of Education is making a major error in putting everyone into a 'one size fits all' category -- that's not the way the world works," said Robert Yurasits, the retiring principal of the School of Cooperative Technical Education, where about 800 high school students undertake part-time study in trades like welding, horticulture and air-conditioner repair.
Margie Feinberg, a spokeswoman for the Board of Education, said board members hoped that the new standards would leave students better prepared for college and therefore more would choose to go.
And Mr. Feldman said students who were not planning on going to college needed the same basic skills as those who were.
Mr. Ramos seemed to agree that the current standards have not adequately prepared him, even in basic skills. "I want to get my diploma so I can pay a tutor to teach me to read," he said.
The ambitions of the Evander Childs graduates are shaped partly by what they know -- what their parents and siblings have accomplished, or not accomplished -- and partly by what they do not know: material wealth and luxury.
Ms. Santos wants to be a lawyer, a Senator and the first female Secretary of the Air Force.
Mr. Loza said he wanted to open a restaurant in downtown Manhattan, "something nice, classy." He wants to be able to buy a $50,000 Lexus.
Ms. Reid is one of eight children, almost all of whom went to work early to help support the family. Her 13-year-old sister is already working as a day care aide.
Beyond getting to college one day and becoming a nurse, her dreams are simple: "I want to move into a three-family house," she said, with room for parties for her big family. "I want a basement you could turn into a playroom."
Mr. Rose's goal, he said, is to own a computer business "like Bill Gates." But, he was quick to add, "I don't want to be too rich and not associate with poor people."
Mr. Ramos also thinks about starting a business, most recently a pizza parlor. "I could forget about college if I had enough money to open a business," he said. "I could live off the profits."
It is not an unrealistic goal -- in 1996, 40 percent of small-business owners had only a high school diploma, according to Federal statistics. But it is not an easy goal either, particularly in the economically insular world of the Bronx.
More than any of the other graduates, perhaps, Mr. Ramos reflects that isolation. He is clearly bright, yet beyond a supportive guidance counselor, Isabel Scherz, he has few guides to life beyond school.
His friends, he said, have all dropped out of school and are hanging out on the streets. He cannot talk to his mother, he said, because "when I go to school she's sleeping, when I come home she's at work."
"I'm by myself," he said. "I'm by myself."
Of the five, only Mr. Rose and Ms. Santos attended Friday's graduation ceremonies.
At the ceremonies, Ms. Santos proudly posted the flag on the high school stage. For her, things did not work out as she had planned -- they worked out better. Just as she was about to send in her form committing herself to the Air Force, she got word that she had won a scholarship to Norwich University, a military academy in Vermont.
Things did not work out exactly as planned for Mr. Ramos, either. He failed one class, government. His guidance counselor said that was no problem -- he would just take summer school.
But then he failed to show up last week for the two Regents Competency Tests that he still had to pass. Mrs. Scherz wondered whether he was trying to sabotage himself, she said, so that he could stay in school longer and postpone figuring out his future -- a common phenomenon among graduating seniors who have no plans.
Asked whether that was the case, Mr. Ramos said, "In a way, yeah," and conceded that he was scared because he did not know what to do after high school.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anthony Rose at Evander Childs High School's graduation ceremonies in the Bronx on Friday. He is joining the Army. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times); Johana Santos saluted after posting the flag on the high school stage at graduation. She was ready to enlist in the Air Force, but at the last minute got accepted to a military academy in Vermont.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC); EVANDER CHILDS HIGH SCHOOL (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC); EVANDER CHILDS HIGH SCHOOL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); ARMIES (75%); NURSES & NURSING (70%); AIR FORCES (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; SANTOS, JOHANA; ROSE, ANTHONY; RAMOS, ANGEL; LOZA, MICHAEL; REID, COREEN MICHAEL LOZA (76%); COREEN REID (64%); ANGEL RAMOS (64%); ANTHONY ROSE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



581 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Bush Is on Easy Street Early in His Campaign

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 26

 BODY:
Two weeks have now passed since Gov. George W. Bush first hit the campaign trail. And his poll numbers just keep getting better, the crowds keep on coming, and the money keeps on rolling in.
It cannot go on this way forever for the front-runner for the Republican nomination for President in 2000, or so conventional wisdom holds. But for "W," the trail moniker the Governor of Texas has picked up, it has been nothing but smooth sailing so far in these first two weeks of his official candidacy, as he has traveled to nine states, from the Midwest to New England to here in Florida, to pitch his campaign message of "compassionate conservatism." 
 "I'm some kind of fired up!" Mr. Bush blurted on Friday at a fund-raiser here on his first campaign stop in Florida, where his younger brother, Jeb Bush, is the Governor. In most of the polls conducted after his first 10 days on the road, the Texas Governor continues to lead Vice President Al Gore by close to 15 percentage points and has increased his lead over his nearest Republican rival, Elizabeth Dole, to a formidable 50 points.
In New Hampshire, polls indicate he now has more support among Republican voters than all 11 of his primary rivals have, taken together. His opponents have been taking pot shots at him, calling his "compassionate conservatism" a fuzzy, ill-defined notion that tries to be too many things to too many people. But he continues to pitch it, as he did here, telling a crowd of 500 or so supporters in Miami:
"I have a conservative mind and a compassionate heart. It is conservative to cut tax rates and compassionate to help families still left struggling. It is conservative to set high education standards and hold kids to them and it is compassionate to see that not one kid gets left behind. It is conservative to expect people on welfare to find work but compassionate to encourage charity and help those who really can't make it."
To Jeffrey Manchester, a Miami business management consultant who contributed $1,000 to hear the Governor and pick at finger food, that approach bespoke Republican moderation as much as anything and had "just the right balance."
"Everybody says that education is just about the most important issue facing this country today and it pleases me no end that the Governor touched on that at the very start and then kept returning to it," Mr. Manchester said. "I liked what I heard. I have no problem with being conservative and compassionate at the same time."
The Governor had finished speaking and was working the crowd, slapping backs, embracing and being embraced, now winking, now posing for a souvenir picture, now whispering earnestly in an ear. He had been introduced by his brother, Jeb, and the two of them had mugged a bit at the podium about the family thing, the political dynasty thing, as in Kennedys and Roosevelts, to the delight of the upturned faces in the crowd.
Would George W. get Mr. Manchester's vote? "Let's see how he does further down the road," Mr. Manchester said. "Don't they all run into some challenging difficulty sooner or later? I'll be watching."
Celinda Lake, one of the most respected Democratic pollsters, said after running still another Bush survey that she was "startled" at how strongly Mr. Bush was suddenly running among women and Hispanic voters, normally Democratic-leaning constituencies.
Impressive, too, is the number of Republican leaders who have now climbed aboard the Bush bandwagon, many of them over the last two weeks. He now has more than half of the party's Governors, Senators and members of the House of Representatives.
And then there is the money thing.
Mr. Bush is so far ahead in fund-raising -- he expects to top the $20 million mark by the end of this month and double that by primary season next spring -- that he may forgo accepting Federal matching funds and the spending limits that come attached.
In one day, on his sweep through Florida on Friday, in which he touched down at Fort Myers, Tampa, Fort Lauderdale and Miami, he collected $2.5 million, campaign aides said. That is more money than some of his rivals have collected in a full year of fund-raising. In fact, Randy Enwright, a Republican consultant who once was executive director of the Florida Republican Party, predicted that before Election 2000 is over, Mr. Bush will have raised more money in Florida than all his rivals will combined.
"He'll take some of Al Gore's money, too," Mr. Enwright said, suggesting that potential Gore donors might turn instead to Mr. Bush.
The Governor's campaign pitch has now settled into a predictable format and rhythm, as usually happens with candidates. He offers standard hot-button lines, well-tested jokes and themes centered for the most part on tax cuts, better schools, a stronger military, personal responsibility and stronger families and communities.
But the themes are only broadly sketched. He promises details later, once the themes are set, a promise that does not satisfy his critics, who accuse him of on-the-one-hand/on-the-other-hand waffling. What the Bush stump speech does not include are hard-edged, head-on attacks on Mr. Gore, President Clinton and Republican rivals. And sensitive and divisive issues like abortion and affirmative action are relegated to the background, though Mr. Bush says he is opposed to both, generally.
Among his top priorities, Mr. Bush says, are tax cuts and an increase in military spending. The cuts, he argues, would spur the economy to even greater heights. The extra military spending is needed, he says, because of the spread of international terrorism and because more and more countries are developing missile capabilities. He does not touch much on the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal. But when he does, by indirection, saying he would never disgrace the dignity of the Oval Office, he draws his biggest applause. One of his biggest laughs comes when he takes a sideswipe at Mr. Gore for claiming to have helped invent the Internet.
"Al Gore no more invented our current prosperity than I invented the Internet," Mr. Bush says.
As for his own gaffes out on the trail, he has thus far committed only a few of the kind that reporters and opponents pounce on early in a campaign as indications that a candidate has a lot to learn or, worst of all, may not be up to the job.
There was that moment in the first day or so on the road when he committed what is generally classified a political no-no. He declared flatly that he would win the first big contest of Election 2000, the straw poll that Iowa's Republican Party has scheduled for Aug. 14.
Having set the bar, he now must clear it.
Then there was that interview in which he referred to the people of Timor as "Timoreans" -- they are Timorese -- and that remark in Richmond in which he confused Slovakia and Slovenia.
Hardly fatal stuff. Yet it forced him to confess that "this is a big world and I've got a lot to learn."
"But should I be fortunate to be elected," he quickly added, "I'll be ready. I'll be ready to assume the office."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, right, greeted his brother, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, on Friday night at a fund-raiser in Fort Lauderdale, on the Presidential hopeful's first official trip to the state. The Bush brothers were also in Tampa, Fort Myers and Miami, and raised $2.5 million. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (77%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (57%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (57%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FLORIDA REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (77%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (57%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (57%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (62%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); BUSH, JEB GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (58%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



582 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Bob Grant or Senate? Talk-Show Host Ponders as Whitman Squirms

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

 BODY:
As one of talk radio's original angry white males, Bob Grant of WOR-AM has enjoyed considerable notoriety and won high ratings by making inflammatory comments about the people who upset him. They tend to be poor, politically liberal or black.
In recent months, however, Mr. Grant has been tormenting someone on the other end of the political and economic spectrums: Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, a virtual paragon of establishment affluence and Republican moderation. 
 Mr. Grant has feuded with the Governor since 1994, when she chastised him for making racially offensive comments. Now he is flirting with a run as an independent candidate next year for the United States Senate seat that Governor Whitman is seeking.
Many political analysts discount Mr. Grant's very public ruminations as a stunt to boost ratings and make Mrs. Whitman squirm. But because Mrs. Whitman has never won more than 49 percent of the vote in any statewide election, it is widely acknowledged that an independent candidacy by a well-known conservative like Mr. Grant, who lives in Monmouth County, N.J., could hurt the Governor in a close race.
Mrs. Whitman herself conceded that point earlier this month, when she said she feared Mr. Grant would draw crucial conservative votes from her. The tone of the Governor's statement's was generally conciliatory, but she did utter the R-word -- race -- to describe what she said was one of the few issues on which she and Mr. Grant disagreed.
At WOR's studios in Manhattan, the Governor's unexpected comments about race sent a buzz through the halls, and as technicians scurried to edit a tape of them in time for that afternoon's show, Mr. Grant appeared triumphant.
"Get the band ready," Mr. Grant said. "John Philip Sousa."
David Bernstein, the program director, clapped his hands and exclaimed:
"You're gonna get a lot of mileage out of this."
While verbal jousting with Governor Whitman does make good radio drama, Mr. Grant insists that his possible candidacy is actually a matter of patriotic duty. After nearly 30 years as the self-appointed voice of the Little Guy, Mr. Grant, 70, says the Republic desperately needs a populist antidote to what he calls professional office-seekers who he says control American government.
And Mr. Grant, a man who earns a handsome salary but still brings coffee to work each day in a Thermos, says he is just the man to remind Capitol Hill about the concerns of his neighbors and listeners who pay mortgages in Manalapan and get stranded in traffic outside the Holland Tunnel.
If elected, Mr. Grant said, he would try to replace the income tax system with a national sales tax. He would tighten immigration laws, slash welfare and reduce what he describes as the labyrinth of intrusive government regulations.
Mr. Grant also insists he will contribute to the nation's political discourse by talking plainly and honestly about race, an ambitious claim given the furor he has ignited when discussing racial issues and black public figures in the past.
Mr. Grant was fired by WABC in 1996 for making disparaging remarks about Ron Brown, the Commerce Secretary who died in a plane crash. At various points in his career he has called Haitian refugees "unwashed scum" and black South Africans "screaming savages," referred to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. with an unprintable slur, and labeled Mayor David N. Dinkins "a men's room attendant."
Mr. Grant now says he regrets his reference to Dr. King, but has no apologies for his other statements. He points to the furor they inspired as evidence of how, he says, the media and left-wing special interest groups have tried to stifle his speech.
His public battle with Governor Whitman began in 1994, when she said she was offended by Mr. Grant's racial comments. The Governor then appeared on his show, chastised Mr. Grant and vowed that she would never return.
Now that race is again New Jersey's most loaded issue, with the Governor having been criticized for failing to respond quickly enough to complaints of racial bias by the state police, Mr. Grant says he is eager to show voters how Mrs. Whitman has repeatedly pandered to minority leaders.
"I was one of her biggest supporters, but she betrayed me back then because she was caving to the black ministers," Mr. Grant said. "She is still caving in to them today, and I think the voters are going to make her pay for that."
For all Mr. Grant's zeal about the issues however, he still seems uncertain about embracing the rigors of a campaign, or stepping away from the microphone after nearly 30 years on the air.
On the day Governor Whitman made her comments about Mr. Grant, for instance, he said surprisingly little to capitalize on a potent political opportunity. The program, broadcast during afternoon drive time, started with a brass band's rendition of "Hail to the Chief" and an emcee introducing "the next Senator from the great state of New Jersey, Bob Grant." Next came sound bites from Governor Whitman.
When the red light flashed and Mr. Grant went on the air, he mused about the Governor's comments briefly. Within five minutes though, he was warning listeners that Democrats in Congress "aren't interested in gun control, they're interested in gun con-FIS-CATION!"
In the WOR control room, the show's producer, Roy Fredriks, was baffled by the abrupt change of topics.
"What's he beating up on Clinton for?" Mr. Fredriks asked the engineer. "We can get a whole show out of Whitman."
Mr. Grant's callers were not as easily distracted from the Senate race.
Cary from the Bronx said he thought it was high time someone like Mr. Grant went to Washington to fight for the common man. Steve in the Car called on his cellular phone to warn Mr. Grant that the Governor would relentlessly try to portray him as a bigot if he continued his campaign.
"I would hope that your people are going to combat that," Cary said, "by showing that you've called so many people savages over the years."
Mr. Grant seemed buoyed by his listeners' loyalty.
"If they do attack me," he said of his potential opponents, "it will insure my victory because people will rally to my side," Mr. Grant said.
Off the air, where Mr. Grant's demeanor is far more genial than his on-air persona, he said he was inspired to run by the unlikely victory of Jesse Ventura, the professional wrestler who last year was elected Governor of Minnesota. Mr. Grant also dismisses suggestions that his candidacy is a publicity stunt designed to reverse a slight drop in his ratings in recent years.
"If you look at what happened in Minnesota, I only need 35 to 37 percent of the vote to win," he said. "That's a real possibility."
Under Federal rules, Mr. Grant would have to either give up his show or provide his opponents equal time on the air if he officially declares his candidacy. Until he does, such bold predictions will do little to sway people who suspect that Mr. Grant is simply enjoying the chance to cause grief for Governor Whitman.
"If I were someone else, I'd probably think that, too," he said. "But this has nothing to do with Christie Whitman. At my age, this is probably my last chance to do something like this. So if I'm ever going to make a difference, now is the time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Grant during his show.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); MEN (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); SALES TAX (60%); INCOME TAX (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; GRANT, BOB; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



583 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: First Lady in a Messy Fight On the Eve of Her Campaign

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Since the collapse of her health care project in 1994, Hillary Rodham Clinton has seemed to retreat from the gladiator pit of high-profile policy issues, devoting herself instead to less visible topics like foster care and adoption.
But for more than a year, Mrs. Clinton has been engaged behind the scenes on a legislative issue -- consumer bankruptcy -- that could prove politically tricky for other Democrats and for her own political ambitions. 
 The high-powered banking and credit card industries, concentrated in New York, are concerned that too many people with money are filing for bankruptcy as a financial planning tool, and the industries are aggressively pushing legislation to make it harder for consumers to use bankruptcy to walk away from their debts.
But Mrs. Clinton has made it clear that she thinks the legislation, which the credit industry essentially wrote, is unfair to women and children, and she has been just as aggressively pushing to amend it. The banking and credit card industries are generous campaign contributors and could favor her competitors in a run for the Senate in New York.
What is more, this is one of the few causes Mrs. Clinton has taken up that her own party is divided over. Democratic support for the legislation is strong enough that the House has already passed it by a veto-proof margin, last month. And the Senate is poised to do the same when the matter comes up later this summer. As one Administration official said, "For many Democrats, this is a free, pro-business vote."
Mrs. Clinton was drawn to the issue through her decades-long interest in matters affecting women and children. Though she supports an overhaul of the bankruptcy system and says that those who can repay their debts should, she says the credit industry should be held equally accountable for making credit too easily available to people who cannot pay their bills.
She also views the legislation as making it harder for women to receive alimony and child support if their former husbands file for bankruptcy, say members of Congress, advisers to Mrs. Clinton and policy experts who have followed the issue. While current law forces debtors to make a priority of claims for alimony and child support, critics of the proposed legislation say it would give equal status to credit card companies and other lenders seeking to recoup money from a limited pool. This could put a single mother in competition with, say, a professional collection agency working for a big bank or credit card company to retrieve money from a bankrupt former husband.
Single women now constitute the largest group of people who file for bankruptcy, making up 39 percent of the nation's annual 1.4 million filings, according to a recent Harvard study. Single men make up 28 percent and married couples 33 percent.
"There is a big stake in this for women and children," said Joan Entmacher, vice president of the National Women's Law Center in Washington. "It was a really critical role that Mrs. Clinton played in having the White House insist that the final bill had to protect those populations."
Some Democrats who support the legislation, however, have played down the effect on women and dismiss it as not significant enough to derail the legislation.
Mrs. Clinton immersed herself in the topic last year, before she considered running for the seat of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, even before Senator Moynihan announced that he was retiring. (She is expected to begin her campaign shortly after July 4 with a 10-day announcement tour across upstate New York.) Her involvement was remarkable for any first lady but particularly for one who had been so seared by the public when she ventured into the policy-making arena on health care.
"She has essentially been functioning as a senior adviser to the President," said Carl Sferrazza Anthony, author of several books on first ladies. He said such a role could be tricky during her Senate campaign because her involvement in various issues will bolster her credibility as someone who cares about public policy and legislation, and yet she needs to steer clear of implications that she has been operating as an unelected co-President.
In the spring of 1998, Mrs. Clinton sought a private tutorial in bankruptcy law from a Harvard law professor, Elizabeth Warren, who has strongly opposed the legislation. Ms. Warren said she met with Mrs. Clinton alone for more than half an hour, with Mrs. Clinton "cross-examining" her about how bankruptcy works and the effects of the bill.
Mrs. Clinton directed her staff to delve into the details and held numerous policy discussions. She devoted two of her weekly newspaper columns to the issue. She wrote dozens of personal notes to lawmakers last year as the bills made their tortuous way through the Congressional process. And she, along with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, played what the bill's opponents say was a decisive role in helping to kill the legislation last year.
Representative Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat and strong critic of the legislation, said that he called the White House last October to alert Mrs. Clinton that Senator Trent Lott, the Republican leader, was trying to slip the bankruptcy legislation into the final omnibus spending bill, a move that would have made it virtually impossible for President Clinton to veto.
"We heard that Lott asked the White House for minimally acceptable language, and we heard that some in the White House were trying to work out such language," Mr. Nadler said. "I called Mrs. Clinton to say, 'Stick to your guns.' That's where she was instrumental. She weighed in, and suddenly we were hearing a changed tune." The bill died.
This year, as the legislation re-emerged, Mrs. Clinton has kept her vigil. She spoke out last month at the White House on what she called abusive and predatory practices by credit card companies, which make four billion unsolicited offers of credit cards every year that critics say are aimed at those least likely to pay their bills on time -- elderly women, unemployed college students, people without health insurance and those already in debt. And she received a briefing on the bankruptcy bill before she left earlier this month with President Clinton for Europe.
"She has been the principal at the White House who cared most about the fate of the details of the bill," said one Administration official.
Mrs. Clinton's involvement in the bankruptcy issue has been unusual in part because her own party is split over what to do about it. The House passed its version with a veto-proof majority even as advisers to the President recommended he veto it.
The Senate version is also expected to win some support from Democrats, who are negotiating with Republicans over aspects such as means testing and requirements for credit card companies to disclose to consumers how much they will owe if they do not pay their bills in full. The White House is waiting to see what the final Senate bill looks like.
Administration officials say that so far the Senate has not adequately addressed the concerns of Mrs. Clinton, who wants both the priority for women and children, and greater accountability by creditors, but they are circumspect about how far the White House will go in pressing for changes, especially if many Democratic senators are satisfied.
"She's very practical," said an official close to Mrs. Clinton. "She wants to improve the bill. She doesn't want to be obstructionist."
Another complicating factor is this: some of the Democrats sympathetic to the Republican proposals that Mrs. Clinton opposes are also major fund-raisers for their party, and the banking and credit interests are prime sources of big campaign contributions.
In the last election cycle, the credit industry, including credit card companies, banks and retailers, gave more than $4.5 million in campaign contributions, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
"It was a combination of aggressive industry lobbying, by retailers as well as creditors, and they spent a great deal of money," said Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America.
He added: "Some Democrats in the House thought this was a free vote because they didn't think the Senate would approve such a draconian piece of legislation or it would be vetoed by the Administration."
William P. Binzel, a spokesman for Mastercard International, said that Mrs. Clinton had worked hard and made her opposition well known but that she had not been able to overcome the industry's basic argument for the legislation.
"It's not a hard sell to say there's a fundamental flaw in the current law when debtors are allowed to walk away from their debts when they have the ability to pay," Mr. Binzel said. "It's fair to say there is strong bipartisan support for bankruptcy reform."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton fears a bill's effect on women and children. (Associated Press)(pg. 19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; ELECTIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WOMEN; CHILDREN AND YOUTH INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); WOMEN (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (88%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); ADOPTION (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; SEELYE, KATHARINE Q HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



584 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Overturns a Hong Kong Court Ruling on the Residency Status of Immigrants

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 26

 BODY:
In a move that has profound implications for Hong Kong's legal system, China today overturned, in effect, a local court ruling that granted residency here to more than a million people.
The decision by China's legislature to reinterpret provisions of the Hong Kong constitution that were the basis of the ruling is tantamount to overruling Hong Kong's highest court. And it marks Beijing's most overt intervention, albeit at the request of Hong Kong's own Beijing-appointed administrator, in the affairs of this former British colony since it reverted to Chinese rule in 1997. 
 While widely expected, the move elicited a torrent of protest from lawyers and pro-democracy politicians here. They said it would jeopardize the rule of law and the high degree of autonomy that Hong Kong was promised in its transition from a Crown Colony to a Chinese metropolis.
In a terse statement issued by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, Beijing declared that Hong Kong's Court of Final Appeal had erred in its landmark ruling, which granted residency to all children born in mainland China who have at least one parent living in Hong Kong.
"The decision of the Court of Final Appeal is not consistent with the Basic Law," said the official New China News Agency, referring to the Beijing-drafted constitution that governs this territory.
Beijing's decree brings to an end a five-month drama that pitted Hong Kong's British-style legal system against China's.
The dispute laid bare the deep ambivalence that Hong Kong people feel toward their mainland brethren. And it forced this independent-minded enclave to face the reality that -- whatever the niceties of the Sino-British agreement known as "one country, two systems" -- Hong Kong is now part of a single country that will not hesitate to assert its suzerainty, in matters legal or political.
"Not only does this set a precedent," said Margaret Ng, a lawyer and member of the legislature here. "It sanctions political intervention in the judicial system in Hong Kong. It ushers in a whole culture of mainland political figures criticizing and putting pressure on Hong Kong courts."
Dozens of protesters crowded around the Government headquarters to protest the action. Several carried a huge banner that said, "Tung Chee-hwa ruins the rule of law, ruins Hong Kong." Mr. Tung, a shipping magnate, is chief executive of the territory.
Critics trained most of their fire on Mr. Tung rather than on Beijing. He asked the Chinese Government to act because of fears that the court decision would have inundated this already teeming city with mainland immigrants.
Beijing's action also provoked concern from the United States, which has kept a low profile on Hong Kong affairs since the handover.
"The issue is whether the common law system in Hong Kong will maintain its integrity," said Richard A. Boucher, the United States Consul General. "Our concern is that reinterpretation could become too easy a precedent. It could undermine future cases and influence future behavior."
Mr. Tung denied that Hong Kong's legal system had been undermined. While he said he had been reluctant to ask Beijing to insert itself in Hong Kong's affairs, he did not rule out doing so again.
"What I want to emphasize is that we have taken this course of action because there were really no other alternatives, and it is not something we would want to do in the future, if we can help it," Mr. Tung said.
Hong Kong's drama began last January when its court extended residency rights to mainland Chinese children regardless of whether their parents were Hong Kong residents before or after their birth. That sweeping language threw open the doors to an estimated 1.6 million mainland Chinese.
The court managed to upset people on both sides of the border. Mainland officials objected because they said the court was trying to usurp the authority of China's legislature. Because the ruling involved the movement of Chinese citizens between the mainland and Hong Kong, Beijing said the court should have referred the case to the National People's Congress.
Hong Kong's government, meanwhile, warned that the newcomers would swamp this city of 6.8 million, swelling unemployment, jamming schools and hospitals, and blighting the environment. Hong Kong estimated the influx would cost $91 billion in additional capital spending.
With anti-immigrant sentiment running high, Hong Kong last month asked Beijing to invoke the rarely used device of reinterpreting the Basic Law. Today, the Chinese legislature responded by limiting the right of residency to mainland children whose parents were residents at the time of their birth.
Officials here estimated today that would reduce the eligible immigrants from 1.6 million to less than 200,000.
While public support has been resolutely behind the Government's efforts to limit immigration, pro-democracy leaders said Hong Kong would pay for its action by opening itself to future meddling by Beijing.
"If you break open a hole in the legal system for one group of people, then nobody is safe," said Martin Lee, the leader of Hong Kong's Democratic Party. "Nobody knows how large this hole will be."
Government officials said the critics were simply stubborn in their refusal to adapt to life after the handover. "You must accept that there is a new constitutional order," said Elsie Leung, the Secretary of Justice. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; CHINA; HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VERDICTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); REFUGEES (60%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK TUNG CHEE-HWA (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



585 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Colombia Adjusts Economic Figures to Include Its Drug Crops

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia

 BODY:
Taking a step that is generating heated criticism in Washington, the Colombian Government has begun to include income earned from growing illegal drugs in the way it calculates the size of the nation's economy.
The move is controversial but necessary, Colombian officials say, to take account of the increasingly uncontrollable reality of the drug trade, which by obviously imprecise assessments could amount to between one-quarter and one-third of Colombia's legal exports, or as much as $4 billion a year. 
 By including revenues from narcotics in gross domestic product, Colombian Government economists say they hope to obtain a more accurate measure of all economic activity in the country. Excluding drug crops, they maintain, leads to distortions that hamper the Government's ability to effectively combat drug production and trafficking.
"This is a purely technical exercise, not a political measure," said Tomas Gonzalez Estrada, the chief economic adviser to President Andres Pastrana, who has stepped up the war against drugs here since taking office last August.
But some in Washington, particularly Congressional Republicans who have criticized other Pastrana policies, have attacked the decision capitulation to drug dealers.
Gen. Barry McCaffrey, President Clinton's antidrug chief, earlier this month called the move "a political error." In a telephone interview from Washington, Robert Weiner, a spokesman for the National Office of Drug Control Policy, said, "They say it in no way means an acceptance of or the legalization of drugs, but they have not fully explained that position or gotten that message out."
Officials here, though, respond that they are merely complying with guidelines set by the International Monetary Fund and World Bank for potential borrowers, and that other countries, like Bolivia, use the same system. Instructions prepared by the I.M.F., World Bank and other international lenders clearly state that "transactions involving the sale or purchase of illegal goods and services must be recorded."
The Colombian economy is suffering its worst recession in decades, and the Government is currently in talks with the I.M.F., without whose bill of good health it would be difficult for Colombia to borrow money from international capital markets.
The official recalculation could add as much as 1 percent to the value of the deteriorating Colombian economy, which has gross national product of nearly $80 billion a year. But Mr. Gonzalez emphasized that "we are not doing this to improve the performance of the Colombian economy," but rather to "have more effective tools" to design strategies like crop substitution.
For the moment, the new accounting system does not include the much larger sums of money earned from the processing or trafficking of cocaine, marijuana and heroin, only the growing of the raw materials. Rene Verswyvel Villamizar, director of the National Statistical Administrative Department, said cultivation "is as far as we can go with certainty."
According to the new statistics, drug crops added about 854 billion pesos to the Colombian economy in 1994, or just over $1 billion, calculated at the average exchange rate for that year. In 1995, the only other year for which figures are available, the estimate slipped because of market conditions in the United States to $762 million at the time.
Recalculated figures for later years, which officials say may be ready by the end of 1999, are likely to be significantly higher. Official United States estimates indicate that the amount of land devoted to cultivation of drug crops rose by more than one-quarter percent last year, despite eradication efforts.
The United Nations estimates that Colombia exports about 772 tons of cocaine a year, growing and processing roughly half the world supply.
"We are realists," Mr. Verswyvel said. "We have to recognize that narcotics and guerrillas exist, because they are a reality that we cannot hide. We have to measure these things as they are, not as we would like them to be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DRUG POLICY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); DECRIMINALIZATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CANNABIS (78%); RECESSION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HEROIN (73%); COCAINE (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (73%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



586 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE SERBS -- BELGRADE MEMO;
Live, in Belgrade, the Milosevic News

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, June 26

 BODY:
Call it the Big Lie show.
This summer season, it's about how Serbs have not lost control of Kosovo, how the once-vilified NATO forces are merely carrying out Slobodan Milosevic's policy of protecting Serbs from Albanian terrorists and how, despite the odd hiccup, things are going pretty darned well in the Yugoslav province that Serbs regard as their holy land. 
 On the state-controlled television that Mr. Milosevic has used so masterfully in the last decade, the evening news this week showed a tranquil Serbian village in Kosovo where contented, secure farm families were surrounded by lush crops, tidy haystacks and trustworthy British soldiers, one of whom sweetly petted a village dog.
That same evening there was horrifying counterprogramming, but only for the affluent sliver of the Serbian population that has access to CNN and BBC on satellite television. Pictures of burning Serbian villages in Kosovo, torched by vengeful Albanians, were broadcast along with accounts of Serbs being shot to death and fleeing by the tens of thousands from Kosovo into what is left of Mr. Milosevic's Yugoslavia.
The production values shaping the show on Belgrade television go back 12 years to the town of Kosovo Polje, where Mr. Milosevic, then an obscure Communist bureaucrat, found his nationalist legs. "Yugoslavia does not exist without Kosovo! Yugoslavia would disintegrate without Kosovo! Yugoslavia and Serbia are not going to give up Kosovo!" Mr. Milosevic declared in a speech that he made sure was broadcast on television. That speech started both his career as a top politician and the cycle of violence that would obliterate multiethnic Yugoslavia.
Since reality, in the form of 21,000 heavily armed, NATO-led troops who have effectively turned Kosovo into a foreign country, has betrayed Mr. Milosevic's best-remembered and most fundamental promise as a Serb leader, it appears to have been decided at the highest levels here in Belgrade that reality is not in the national interest.
Kosovo episodes of this season's Big Lie, like previous "news" programming during the Bosnian war about how mendacious Muslims in Sarajevo were laying siege to themselves to get world sympathy, are part of a pattern of mass deception that has characterized a decade of Mr. Milosevic's nationalist wars.
It is a strategy that sells defeat as victory, ignores the periodic floods of Serbian refugees flowing into Serbia from lost war zones and leaves millions of Serbs in ignorance or confused denial of human rights atrocities committed in their name by Mr. Milosevic's security forces.
Grisly evidence of Serbian atrocities in Kosovo that has been broadcast around the world in the last two weeks has not reached the majority of Serbs whose main source of information is state television. Even for the privileged few who, thanks to satellite dishes, have seen the pictures of rotting bodies being pulled from wells or shallow graves, the images seem to prompt what Westerners regard as counterintuitive reactions, somehow confirming that Serbs are victims.
"We are a little strange and proud people, and my opinion is that nobody likes Serbs," said Angelina Arbutina, 32, a well-traveled Belgrade basketball player who has starred on the Yugoslav national team in the Olympics and European championships. She says she flips back and forth in the evening between local and satellite television, finding the truth somewhere in between.
"This is war, what happened in Kosovo," Ms. Arbutina said. "If we killed Albanians, I'm sure the Albanians killed Serbs."
According to a poll published in Nin, a Belgrade newsmagazine, about two-thirds of Serbs do not believe Western news accounts of Serbian atrocities in Kosovo.
Another poll, by Medium, a private firm, paints a picture of Serbian public opinion that is nationalistic and misinformed. This poll of 800 urban and rural Serbs, conducted in personal interviews to avoid the demographic distortion that comes from telephone polls in this poor country, found that nearly four out of five Serbs support the peace agreement that ended the 10-week war in Kosovo. It also found, though, that only 14 percent support the withdrawal of nearly all Serbian armed forces from Kosovo, and 80 percent said turning the province over to NATO peacekeepers was unacceptable.
"This story is very old in our public opinion polls," said Srbobran Brankovic, polling director for Medium, referring to popular misunderstanding about how lost wars in Croatia and Bosnia were packaged for Serbs on state television. "The pattern in state media is to tell the people just those details that are convenient. Our television says that we managed to keep Kosovo inside Serbia. They never say how many Serb fighters were withdrawn or how many Serbian refugees have fled. They just say that their security is being secured by United Nations and Russian forces."
President Clinton demanded on Friday that Serbs "are going to have to come out of denial" about atrocities in Kosovo. He said that in order to receive aid they would have to "decide whether they think it's O.K. that all those tens of thousands of people were killed, and all those hundreds of thousands of people were run out of their homes, and all those little girls were raped and all those little boys were murdered."
Asked about such Western demands, Mr. Brankovic said that, for Serbs, they always backfire.
"Most people don't know about the atrocities, and those who do know are not feeling guilty," he said. "Everything we get from the West is pressure, pressure, pressure. It makes the people homogenized. We have some growing anti-West feeling in Serbia."
This postwar season, though, as the pace of misleading images on state television accelerates, there are a number of indications that the credibility of Mr. Milosevic's programming is beginning to slide.
Unlike Belgrade television's coverage of the conflicts in Croatia and Bosnia, in which all the violence, destruction and death occurred somewhere else, coverage of Mr. Milosevic's lost war with NATO has to compete with what many Serbs can see and hear for themselves. His euphonious promises about quickly rebuilding war-damaged bridges and factories do not square with the hard-scrabble lives of many people, who are struggling with gasoline shortages, soaring unemployment and collapsing foreign trade.
"Television shows government ministers going throughout Serbia talking about reconstruction, but everyone can see it is a joke and that there is no money," said Ognjen Pribicevic, a senior research fellow at the Institute of Social Sciences in Belgrade and a political adviser to the opposition leader Vuk Draskovic.
Then there is the matter of the 50,000 Serb refugees that Yugoslav aid officials estimate have fled Kosovo and traveled north to Serbia, a number that has never been mentioned on state television. It reports, instead, that conditions are good for Serbs to return to Kosovo.
To prevent refugees from coming to Belgrade and becoming a visible contradiction of state television news, the police stop them on the main highway about 18 miles south of the capital and direct them to towns in central Serbia. A similar diversion occurred when more than 250,000 Serbs fled Croatia in 1995.
The state's lack of money, too, is becoming increasingly hard to hide. In recent days, hundreds of Yugoslav soldiers, some armed and drunk, have blocked roads in central Serbia, demanding unpaid wages and cursing Mr. Milosevic's Government.
No details of those protests, which have reportedly blocked roads near two major towns in central Serbia, have been mentioned on state television. The police confiscated videotape taken at the barricades by local television in the town of Kraljevo.
What television news focused on last week, instead, was how the peace agreement in Kosovo had succeeded in fulfilling Mr. Milosevic's goals. "We put up heroic resistance, and we have risen above the aggressor in every aspect of the struggle," Gorica Gajevic, general secretary of the ruling Socialist People's Party, said in a speech in the Federal Parliament broadcast on the evening news. Similarly, Momir Bulatovic, the Yugoslav Prime Minister, announced on television that "our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty have been defended."
By claiming that Kosovo has not been lost, it appears that state television has ventured beyond mendacious news broadcasting into a realm of bad comedy. More than a dozen Serbs who were asked in Belgrade this week about the claim smiled wanly and shook their heads.
"I heard that on TV," Branislav Nakic, 36, a printer, said, rolling his eyes. "But nobody believes it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Slobodan Milosevic, left, at a ceremony on June 14, said that the worst was over and that it was time to start rebuilding. But many see such televised talk of reconstruction as a joke, given the state's lack of money. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (96%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (96%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; TELEVISION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); REFUGEES (88%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); TERRORISM (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (71%); IMMIGRATION (68%); 

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



587 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Longest Shot Is in Just Reaching the First Tee

BYLINE: By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: YORKTOWN HEIGHTS, N.Y., June 26

 BODY:
Almost every Saturday night, Ron Bucci, a chiropractor from Tarrytown, kisses his wife and three children goodbye and drives the family van up to Mohansic Golf Course, where he sleeps in the parking lot with carloads of other men from Westchester County.
Usually, Mr. Bucci arrives around 8 P.M., early enough to tap a few balls around Mohansic's putting green, down a bottle of beer or two at the bar and engage in ritual male banter. Sleep is scarce, and by 4 A.M., the groggy platoon of unshaven fathers, husbands and boyfriends wanders into the cozy clubhouse to collect the holy grail of public-access golf: a Sunday morning tee time. 
 "You got mailmen up there sleeping, construction workers, correction officers, cops, accountants," said Mr. Bucci, 40, a seven-year veteran of the Mohansic sleepovers. "If the manager of the course wants to get an early spot, he's up there sleeping," he said. "I'm lucky. I have a van. Some guys sleep in the front seat of their car."
It is no secret that Westchester County, golf oasis for the wealthy, is a golf desert for everyone else. Though the county is peppered with 50 golf courses, only 5 are open to all free-range duffers, that particular golf subspecies who cannot afford a private club's membership fee and annual dues. A sixth is open only to residents of Rye.
Long Island, by contrast, is home to 64 private and 50 public courses. In southern Connecticut, many towns operate their own public courses.
The problem has become so bad in recent years that Westchester -- one of the most affluent counties in the nation -- is now among the most golf-deprived, experts said.
Consider: The county's five public courses, operating at capacity, were host to 270,000 rounds of golf last year, meeting less than 20 percent of the estimated demand for 1.5 million annual rounds, according to a report by the National Golf Foundation. "If there was anywhere in the country that I would build a golf course, it would be in Westchester County," said Angelo Palermo, the Florida-based golf-course consultant who submitted the report to county officials in 1995.
County officials appear ready to take such advice to heart. By the end of this week, County Executive Andrew J. Spano plans to choose from among five multimillion-dollar bids, including one from his own Parks Department, to build a public course on the grounds of the defunct Hudson Hills Golf Club in New Castle.
"If there was ever a slam-dunk project," Mr. Palermo said, "this is it."
The new course is still at least two years from reality. Though the county bought the 170-acre property from I.B.M. in December 1997 for the bargain price of $3.5 million, officials have done little with the land.
Larry Schwartz, Mr. Spano's deputy, said constructing the course would cost less than $10 million, a relative bargain. Nowadays, with land scarce, and environmental regulations ever more complex, even a starter golf course can cost $20 million.
Even when they manage to get a tee time, Westchester golfers face less-than-ideal conditions.
"Public golf is nuts," said Frank Madalone, 33, a dentist from Yonkers, swinging a three iron just off the first tee on a recent Friday at Sprain Lake Golf Club, where 54,197 rounds were played last year.
"To play on the weekend, it's insanity. The fairways overlap, balls flying everywhere," he said, shaking his head. "It's like a firing range out there.
"Sometimes," he added, taking the measure of the course before him, "even for $12, it's not worth it."
Even on weekdays, Westchester's public courses are crowded, officials said.
"Let's put it this way: If you want a tee time at 3 o'clock in the afternoon on a weekday, on a 95-degree day, you can probably find one," said the county's Parks Commissioner, Salvatore DeSantis.
The dearth of public golf is not, of course, unique to Westchester County.
"There is no place that is undersupplied in golf as much as the New York area," said David Leibowits, a golf course developer at Centennial Golf Club, a 27-hole course in Putnam County that charges $105 for a weekend round. "People drive an hour and a half to two hours for golf," he said. "The demand is unlimited."
Many things have conspired to make that so.
After an ebb in golf's popularity in the 1970's and 1980's, more women and youths are playing than ever, industry analysts said. That is especially true in Westchester, home of some of the most exclusive private clubs in the country and a 32-year-old professional tournament now known as the Buick Classic, at Westchester Country Club in Harrison.
The shift is evident at Ardsley High School, for example.
"The golf club used to be five kids," Henry Tina, the school's golf coach, said at Mohansic's second hole on Saturday. "I got 18 kids now. Where are they going to play?"
Until a few years ago, he said, local private clubs allowed the team to practice on their courses. Now they squeeze onto Sprain Lake's course.
Pro golf's marketing of its young, camera-ready stars like Tiger Woods has also brought legions of young wannabes to public courses.
"You don't have so many guys wearing pink now," said Anthony Federico, of Ardsley, waiting at Mohansic's second hole.
Money is also a factor: The economy's years-long boom has made a decent set of clubs a less intimidating purchase, and a public course's greens fee is often less expensive than a movie, soda and popcorn.
As a consequence of the surge, however, the quality of the public courses has dropped as they absorb more rounds from inexperienced players. Last year, golfers played 30 million rounds on New York State's 857 courses, industry statistics show, an average of about 35,000 per course.
But in Westchester County, Dunwoodie, the least active course, clocked 48,884 rounds, according to the county's Parks Department. Saxon Woods, in Scarsdale, crammed in 61,772 rounds. "That's seven-minute tee-time intervals, "Mr. Palermo said.
As a result, many local golfers simply leave.
Mr. Federico and Dr. Madalone, the dentist, both said they drive up to two hours to play more expensive golf in Dutchess County, Connecticut or Long Island.
"It's crazy," Mr. Federico lamented. "It seems like such a shame that we're in such a wealthy county."
There is another, perhaps more disturbing trend that veteran golfers say is sweeping Westchester County's public-access golf courses.
"There is more anger on the golf course," said John Lewandowski, 52, a sales and marketing executive from South Salem, after whacking a 150-yard drive past Mohansic's first hole one week ago.
"Today, they don't care about anybody else. They don't rake the bunkers. They don't wait for people to leave the green."
What really galls him is the flying balls.
"They'll hit close to you to sort of move you along," Mr. Lewandowski said, leaning on his putter. "That can be dangerous. Golf balls hurt."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeff Miller set to play at Mohansic Golf Course, at 5:45 A.M. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Ron Bucci waiting overnight in his van for a Sunday morning tee time at Mohansic Golf Course, one of Westchester County's few public courses. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COUNTRY CLUB (82%); MOHANSIC GOLF (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW CASTLE (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF GOLF (92%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (69%); 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL; SPANO, ANDREW J (COUNTY EXEC) RON BUCCI (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



588 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: All-Year Benefit Is Seen In New Haven Festival

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Conn., June 25

 BODY:
Inspired by the success of the Special Olympics World Games here in 1995, Anne Tyler Calabresi had a vision she believed could help start a cultural and economic renaissance in this troubled Ivy League city.
She thought the heart of the downtown, with its 350-year-old green, and the cozy, historic courtyards of Yale University, would be the perfect place for an international festival that could "showcase the city's vast cultural treasures." 
 "There isn't another city this size that can boast having an Ivy League university and internationally renowned art museums and theaters and a world-class symphony orchestra," said Mrs. Calabresi, who in 1992 founded an academic and social enrichment program for inner-city children. "I wanted to create an event to bring people together who know about the depth of the arts in New Haven, and at the same time showcase the city's museums, theaters, restaurants and both visual and performing artists, for people who have no idea what is here."
But Mrs. Calabresi, whose husband, Guido Calabresi, is a Federal judge and former dean of Yale Law School, said she had no idea the International Festival of Arts and Ideas would grow so quickly to become one of the largest in the country. The festival, now in its fourth year, is in the midst of a 16-day run that ends July 3.
With symposiums covering social issues like "Can Our Schools Be Better" and "War and Peace," and performances by internationally renowned entertainers, festival organizers say they are striving to take the event to a level rarely achieved in this country.
Organizers say they want to make the festival -- modeled after European festivals that combine the arts, science and in-depth discussions of ideas -- a tourist attraction that will draw people to New Haven throughout the year.
"The festival provides this extraordinary vehicle that we believe can bring people to New Haven during the event, but also sparks an awareness of the city so they will want to come other times as well," said Paul Collard, the festival's director.
Mr. Collard said more than 150,000 people are expected to spend about $2.5 million in the city during the festival.
"The intangible impact this festival is having on New Haven cannot be overstated," said City Planner Karyn Gilvarg, "both in psychological and real economic terms. We know it is providing a tremendous showcase for our museums, restaurants and other businesses that we could not have dreamed possible a few years ago."
The festival blends mostly free science and art exhibits and musical performances for adults and children, as well as plays performed by the Royal Shakespeare Theater Company.
Mr. Collard, who organized festivals in England, moved from London two years ago with his wife and four children to direct the festival here. He said its growth has been extraordinary.
The festival has a budget of $2.4 million, contributed by sponsors like Fleet Bank, the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation, Sikorsky Aircraft, Southern New England Telephone and the Bayer Corporation. This year, advertising supplements were distributed in newspapers throughout Connecticut and in New York and Massachusetts, Mr. Collard said.
"The first year or two, the goal was to reach people in the immediate New Haven area," he said, "but now we want to begin drawing people from around Connecticut and throughout the East Coast."
Judy Phillips, passing through Connecticut on her way home to Baltimore from a Cape Cod vacation, stopped at the festival with her three children. She said it was unlike anything she had ever seen in the United States.
"It's more like a mini World's Fair," Ms. Phillips said. "I've seen festivals like this in Europe, but never before in this country." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (84%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (84%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL OF ARTS AND IDEAS FESTIVALS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); THEATER COMPANIES (75%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); MUSIC (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: CALABRESI, ANNE TYLER ANNE TYLER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



589 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: An Open Mind on Interest Rates?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Steven Rattner (Op-Ed, June 23) ends his article by saying "we would all do well to keep an open mind about further interest rate increases." It's a curious bit of advice.
While he is right to point out that unemployment is at its lowest in 29 years, he fails to add that inflation and unemployment have come down together in recent years, in defiance of economic orthodoxy. 
 Second, there is still no real sign of inflation. On the contrary, the latest Consumer Price Index report means that the Federal Reserve will be basing its expected quarter-point rate increase more on intuition than on hard data. Third, global economic competition (based in part on huge differentials in the wage rates that lie at the core of Mr. Rattner's inflation argument) and the Internet-led information revolution will continue to exert downward pressure on prices.
 
WILLIAM D. CORDES
Washington, June 23, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: CORDES, WILLIAM D STEVEN RATTNER (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



590 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: An Open Mind on Interest Rates?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Steven Rattner ("Interest Rate Roulette?", Op-Ed, June 23) states that "the first tenet of inflation fighting is anticipation." The problem lies in defining who is to do the anticipating.
Since the stock market has been encouraging a general feeling of increasing prosperity, perhaps this is the place to look. 
 However, since the stock market has turned to being more of a casino than an investment market, it has become extremely sensitive to even the slightest winds of change.
Accordingly, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, would be better advised to jaw-bone the public at large rather than play Russian roulette with interest rates. Money is expensive enough for most of the working public, and it is to be hoped that the stock market will sort itself out.
 
PETER HIRSCHMANN
Haifa, Israel, June 25, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (64%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (64%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN; HIRSCHMANN, PETER STEVEN RATTNER (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



591 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14WC;Page 17;Column 1;Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Takes Second Place in School Budget Rejections

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to rejecting school budgets, Westchester is No. 2 -- second only to Erie County in the number of school districts where voters overturned spending plans this year.
In Erie, eight budgets were rejected while in Westchester voters turned down seven, said Mary Ellen Clark, a spokeswoman for the state Education Department's Division of Management Services. 
 How did many opponents of the budgets feel? "It's not that we're opposed to education, but as taxpayers we're starting to feel overwhelmed," said Bernard Mindich, a member of Citizens Organized for Responsible Education, a newly formed property owners' group in the Katonah-Lewisboro school district. "Like everything else in life, there's a limit."
The result has been a recurring ritual of spring for taxpayers and school officials in some districts. Voters go to the polls in May and either accept or reject a budget. School officials generally go back to the drawing board and decide either to resubmit the original budget, if it was rejected, or a scaled-down spending plan to a second vote; in many places, citizens' groups used to the period between the two votes to make their cases, both pro and con, on the proposals.
If the budget is defeated a second time, the district adopts what is known as a contingency budget or, as the state calls it, an austerity budget, which is based on state formulas.
In the first round of elections this spring, voters in Katonah-Lewisboro, New Rochelle, Mount Vernon, Valhalla, Greenburgh, Tuckahoe and North Salem turned down school spending plans. Out of the 35 districts in Westchester, only 27 hold budget votes. Some of the remaining districts were created by special acts and are special education districts, not required to hold budget votes. Another is the city of Yonkers, which according to its own laws, does not hold a public vote.
Of the 27 districts that do hold votes, only Eastchester and Greenburgh 7 failed to pass their budgets in 1998. The previous year, 1997, only Greenburgh 7 and Mount Pleasant failed to pass their budgets.
"Increasingly, property owners are asking themselves how long they can keep doing this, and their answer is, 'We can't anymore,' " said Donald McKenzie, the superintendent of the Putnam-Northern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services.
The pressure from voters may be to curb budgets, but at the same time, educators are struggling to balance growing demands from Albany for mandated school programs, decreasing state aid and growing student populations, said Stacy J. Holmes, the superintendent of the Southern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services.
In Westchester, the problem of property taxes versus school budgets is especially acute because taxes are already high and state aid is proportionately lower than in other counties. In determining aid to education, the state factors in the income of residents, as reported on tax returns and through statewide computerized income figures.
As of 1995, Westchester ranked second in the state to New York City in terms of personal income per capita, according to the most recent figures presented in the County Department of Planning's Databook. The average per capita income in the county in 1995 was $40,696.
As a result, the county's school districts have placed near the bottom of the list of those meriting state aid, and the onus of paying for public education in Westchester has fallen increasingly on property owners, who according to the state's calculations, can afford to shoulder it.
That's a conclusion that a lot of people question.
James Maisano, a Republican County Legislator representing parts of New Rochelle, Pelham and Pelham Manor, said that in New Rochelle, the state's policies were pitting parents of school-age children against the elderly. "This is an unhealthy situation forced upon us by a vacuum of leadership from the state," Mr. Maisano said. "It's time for all sides to lobby for reform in educational funding."
Linda E. Kelly, the superintendent of schools in New Rochelle, explained that in 1991, 25 percent of New Rochelle's educational budget was paid by the state, compared with 13 percent this year, and during that period the enrollment was up by 2,000 students to a total of 10,000.
In May, the district's $124.4 million budget was turned back. It was resubmitted on June 18 -- "as it was because there was no fat to cut," Ms. Kelly said -- and passed, signaling an 8.8 percent tax increase.
If, however, that budget had been rejected and a contingency budget had been adopted, taxes would still have risen 5.9 percent, said Kathy Hagendorf, a member of a citizens' group called Yes for Schools.
In Tuckahoe, a $12.8 million proposed school budget, which carried a 9.9 percent tax increase, was narrowly rejected by voters in May. As in New Rochelle, the Tuckahoe budget was also resubmitted in its original form this month and was approved, Board of Education President Leon Waskiewicz said.
He said it passed because of "a grass-roots effort on the part of the P.T.A. and the district to get out the vote." Mr. Waskiewicz said the cost of holding the second vote was about $2,000, which was paid by the Board of Education.
In the Katonah-Lewisboro Union Free School District, Mr. Mindich joined about 60 other citizens at a meeting of Core after voters in May spurned a $57.6 million spending plan and three other propositions related to the schools, which would have raised taxes 15 percent.
"The accumulated effect of tax increases over the years had people up in arms," he said.
Alfred B. Del Bello, a former state Lieutenant Governor and a Democratic County Executive in Westchester, said the citizens group, of which he is also a member, "wanted to send a message to the school board to get more efficient." He added, "If you compare the schools to businesses or to government, you can see the rate of the tax increases is not in line with the rest of the economy."
Rankling at any suggestion that the schools were profligate, Karen McCarthy, Katonah-Lewisboro's superintendent, said: "We are not providing kids with Cadillacs. This is just a Chevrolet kind of budget, and we should be getting a pat on the back, not criticism for it."
A revised budget of $56.8 million was approved in an extremely close vote -- 1,878 to 1,876 -- this month. But at the same time, voters turned down separate proposals to restore $582,000 in spending cuts and $512,000 for new school buses.
As is the case everywhere in the state, a second defeat would have meant that by law the district would have had to adopt an austerity budget -- in this case $55.9 million, which would have eliminated 25 teaching positions and 3 administrators and reduced spending for transportation and operations.
Used to budget failures, Greenburgh Central School's Board of Education adopted a contingency budget, based on state standards, and asked voters to approve three separate propositions, adding $430,000 in additional spending for buses, playground equipment and a school elevator.
All three were defeated, but the elevator will be built anyway, for $250,000, because it is mandated by the state. In large part the money will come from the state.
In Mount Vernon, Superintendent Ronald O. Ross cited "people who are just getting reactionary" as the reason that voters in his city turned back a $108.6 million budget with an 8.7 percent tax increase. Citizens will vote on a revised budget of $107.9 million on Tuesday.
Dr. Ross said, "I take full responsibility for not getting the message out on the budget." He explained that after the vote, the Board of Education revised the budget before returning it to the voters for a second vote.
After North Salem's school budget was defeated, the Board adopted a $20.1 million contingency budget, cutting $475,842 from its original plan. On Monday, voters approved a special allotment of $188,000 for buses and vans.
And in Valhalla, a revised $18.5 million budget -- down $299,867 from the original proposal -- was finally accepted by voters earlier this month.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Picture captions last Sunday with an article on school budget elections reversed the identifications of two polling places. The larger picture showed New Rochelle High School and the smaller one Albert Leonard Middle School in New Rochelle.

GRAPHIC: Photos: New Rochelle High School is the site for another vote on the spending plan. At Albert Leonard Middle School in New Rochelle, people line up to get ready to vote on the budget. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ERIE, PA, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN WESTCHESTER BOARD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN WESTCHESTER BOARD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ERIE, PA, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. BUDGETS (94%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1999



592 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14NJ;Page 14;Column 4;New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3473 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY FOOTLIGHTS;
Crossroads' Tony Afterglow

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

 BODY:
Crossroads Theater Company of New Brunswick had its moment in the spotlight when it was honored on June 6 as outstanding regional theater on the Tony Awards television broadcast. Now that the Ricardo Khan, the artistic director and the staff have been so blessed, what's happening off-camera?
"We're ahead of the game with subscriptions for next season" -- more than 2,700 so far -- "even before the campaign ends next month," Stephanie Clark, the theater's marketing and sales director, said. "The Tony did that for us." 
 How else to celebrate but with a parade in town on Sept. 12, along with an open house from noon to 6 P.M. and performances by local school groups, bands, dance troupes and church choirs. There will also be a reading from "Yellow Eyes," the first Crossroads- commissioned play by a Hispanic playwright, Midgalia Cruz, which is to be staged Jan. 27 through Feb. 27.
Crossroads is to begin its 22d season Sept. 23, with "Homework," a comedy by Kim Coles, in which she plays all the female roles: three friends from grade school through college. "Play On!" a jazz take on "Twelfth Night" with Duke Ellington's music, starts previews on Nov. 18 under the direction of Andre DeShields. "Venice," a new play by Kathleen McGhee Anderson, about two families, one black and one white, is to begin previews on March 9. It is to be directed by Mr. Wright. ALVIN KLEIN
CHRISTIANE KUBRICK: He wasn't shy at all. He was shy only when it came to being official. I think he was probably a hopeless actor. His Griffith Award acceptance speech in 1997 -- he was miserable and he left it to the last minute. And he did it so badly and he got into a really bad mood. He'd written it very well but he couldn't say it. We finally got it on tape and he said, "I'd better not see it, otherwise I'll never send it off." So he sent it off, and then he saw it and nearly choked with laughter -- rolling on the floor -- he couldn't believe it. He said, "You see, I just can't do it." The minute it wasn't official, he was fine. The minute someone stuck a mike in front of his mouth, he said: "My mind is blank and I say nothing, or the most stupid stuff." That's why he didn't want to give interviews. He said, "Why should I work very hard in the film and then make a fool of myself?"
JOHN MILIUS: Stanley had no regard for time. He'd call you in the middle of the night, whenever he felt like calling. I'd say, "Stanley, it's the middle of the night." He'd say, "You're awake, aren't you?" He'd never talk for less than an hour. He just had all kinds of things to discuss -- everything. He had theories. He felt most film was fraudulent -- he felt most people who made films were frauds. He was fascinated by the idea of pure film as opposed to just narrative storytelling. He felt that film broke down to just getting the story across -- like an episodic TV show. And then you have, on the other end, something that's like the end of "2001." Though I think he felt that sort of failed, that it wasn't exact enough.
CHRISTIANE KUBRICK: He did see an awful lot of films -- always. For years, he screened them at the house -- we have a beautiful theater -- and then we became older and lazier and looked at them on tape, and he was very ashamed. He liked Ingmar Bergman, Woody Allen, a lot of Spanish, Italian, Japanese films. He also loved to hate certain films. He would say, "This is the most awful thing I've ever seen," and keep watching.
JOHN MILIUS: He was very vulnerable to criticism or to whether a movie was a success or not. He wasn't completely comfortable with "Barry Lyndon." He just felt that people didn't understand it. People were bored by it. I think after that picture he felt no one was going to let him make a film again. Apparently the only thing that really bothered him a great deal was that "Barry Lyndon" failed commercially. He made "The Shining" after that. Nicholson, I remember, at the time said: "I'm glad to be off that one. That was rough duty."
JAN HARLAN: We very often came home at night and had a sandwich in the kitchen and then went to bed. There was nothing else left.
CHRISTIANE KUBRICK: Socially, he was very much an American in Europe and did astonishing things that were very endearing. I think he was quite unaware of certain social games that people play, especially in England, and wasn't interested either -- and I think many people found that very nice. He was quite secure. If he wasn't, he would inform himself very carefully and very pedantically set out to not make a mistake.
JOHN MILIUS: Before "Full Metal Jacket," he quizzed me a lot about Southeast Asia. I said, "You're never going to go anywhere near Southeast Asia." But he wanted to know every little detail: What the food was like, how the airport was, whether they lost your baggage. He was preparing himself as if he would go. We turned him onto a supplier of military equipment who was going to get him uniforms and the patches and all that kind of stuff -- this guy in Oklahoma City, great character. He called me and said, "I'm so proud to be working on the Stanley Kubrick film." And I thought six months later the guy was ready for a medal. Stanley just drove him nuts: "Are you sure the color of these patches is the same as the last batch? I've been looking at them and I can see a difference."
CHRISTIANE KUBRICK: People always think he was this idiotic dictator. He was always asking everyone's opinion on most things. What do you think of this? What do you think of that? Do you think I should have done this different? He spread his palette of ideas for everyone to have a pick at, and would dismiss you brutally if he thought that what you said was really irritating.
LEE ERMEY (Vietnam Marine Corps veteran; technical adviser, script consultant, actor on "Full Metal Jacket"): Stanley told me he didn't understand actors. He had no actor friends -- they were basically working associates, and he thought they were a little bit strange, totally spoiled and in most cases had to be begged to give him a decent performance. Half the time the actor would argue with him. Vince D'Onofrio didn't like Stanley's "craziness look." He wanted to try it some other way. The problem with Vince was this was his first film, and he's telling Stanley Kubrick how he thinks this look should be. They stand there arguing. Stanley finally said, "Look, do it my way and we'll load back up and we'll shoot it your way." Well, when they shot it Vince's way they didn't have any film in the camera.
LOUIS BLAU: Stanley told Vincent D'Onofrio the night before a scene, "I want you to be big -- Lon Chaney big." They shot the scene in three takes and as they sat playing back the tape, Vincent and Stanley were seated next to each other. And after the third take was seen, Stanley took his fist and gently rubbed it against Vincent D'Onofrio. Vincent has never forgotten that -- it was the approval from Kubrick.
ADAM BALDWIN (actor; featured in "Full Metal Jacket"): We were a group of green actors mostly. He had his own private little war going on there. He didn't have a lot of respect for any of us. He would have us crawl in the asbestos and the coal dust and not care if we got hurt. I figured, get in there and get dirty. But a couple of guys got sick of it.
We'd do a series of five or six takes and we'd go look at it on video playback, and he'd say: "Don't stand here. Don't go that far into the frame. See, you're out of focus here." He was very much concerned with what the picture looked like. I found after a couple of months that it was a great luxury to be able to work at that pace -- you could do it as many times as he wanted. There was one scene where we were sitting on a wall and the tanks are firing off in the distance. We ended up doing that for three and a half weeks -- one scene.
ARLISS HOWARD: My grandfather had bird dogs so intent on being bird dogs they would run headlong into trees. And Stanley was sort of like that without the penchant for running into things.
He would say: "I know how to do virtually every job on a movie. I can light, I can record sound, I know where mikes go." He could come into a room and say, "We're two stops off in this light." They'd say, "No, we just checked the camera." He'd say, "We're two stops off," and they'd be two stops off. But he would say: "I don't know how to act. But I'll tell you this, we will get the best shot."
What Stanley really didn't like is if you wasted his time. And what he considered to be time-wasting was if you didn't know your lines. One day we had to do this thing called the Rifleman's Creed where we laid on the bed and recited this speech, and we had to do it with a tiny speaker in your ear and do it to playback, which was very disorienting for me. We got to take 16 and he said to me, "You're not prepared." And I said, "No, I know the thing -- I'm just having trouble with this thing in my ear." And he said, "You don't know it if you don't know how to be able to do it with that in your ear." We got into an argument about how well I knew it, but I finally realized that he was absolutely right.
Much later, he related a story to me about "Spartacus," that all the English actors were muttering, and he was sure they were talking about him and he was very paranoid. It was Olivier and Peter Ustinov and Charles Laughton -- they were always muttering. And he discovered when he snuck up behind them one time that they were doing lines from their work. And he said: "This is something American actors don't do at all. They do not learn text." He blamed Lee Strasberg.
MATTHEW MODINE: I once asked him why he so often did a lot of takes. He said it was because actors didn't know their lines. And he talked about Jack Nicholson: "Jack would come in during the blocking and he kind of fumbled through the lines. He'd be learning them while he was there. And then you'd start shooting and after take 3 or take 4 or take 5 you'd get the Jack Nicholson that everybody knows and most directors would be happy with. And then you'd go up to 10 or 15 and he'd be really awful and then he'd start to understand what the lines were, what the lines meant, and then he'd become unconscious about what he was saying. So by take 30 or take 40 the lines became something else." Stanley'd say: "I don't know how to do it. People don't do their homework, the only thing I can do is spend time doing multiple takes while the people are learning what their job is supposed to be."
ADAM BALDWIN: One of the things we did to kill time was play chess, play hearts, smoke cigarettes. We would lay out the board and he would kind of waddle over and wipe you out in 15 moves. One time I actually got him to blunder and I won the game -- big deal, 1 out of 50. But I said: "Hah, I got ya, I got ya. You have to resign now." And he said to me: "The only reason you won, Adam, is because I have so little respect for your game that I made a blunder. Now get back to work." He had that little wry grin of his and walked away.
LEE ERMEY: He didn't seem to be too concerned if the people got hurt, but if an animal got hurt, that's serious stuff there. He wouldn't kill a mouse in his house. One afternoon on location, we needed to use an area where there was a big stack of rubbish -- lumber and junk. And Stanley asked construction to move that pile of rubbish somewhere else and in the process they killed a wild rabbit, and it broke Stanley's heart. He actually wrapped for the rest of the day, shut it down.
STEVE SOUTHGATE: We have a lady in France who supervises all the dubbing for Stanley, and she was heavily pregnant at the time and she'd got everything virtually finished, the dubbing was all done, the mixing was all done, and she went into labor. And she was in labor for 10 or 12 hours and Kubrick called her in the middle of the labor. And she was screaming the answers back.
JAN HARLAN: He actually didn't leave his house ever unless he had to. When he was working in his office and he could see Christiane outside painting somewhere in the distance -- that's what he liked.
MATTHEW MODINE: There was a postponement, and my wife and I were invited to go to M1/3laga, Spain. He said, "Why do you want to go there?" I said, "This person invited me." He said: "Yeah, but you've come all this way -- have you seen anything in England?" He couldn't understand why anybody wanted to go anyplace. Why his children would want to go to university. "You could take home university classes. You don't have to go away to find something. Everything can be brought to you." He was crazy about that.
CHRISTIANE KUBRICK: He thought it was boring away from home. He liked all his stuff around him, all his telephones and televisions and fax machines. Also, we have a zoo. We have a lot of animals and he liked those and he liked the children and later the grandchildren. He liked being at home. But not like a hermit -- he had lots of friends -- they just weren't in the film business. He talked to everyone -- he just didn't talk to the press.
KEN ADAM: His daughter Vivian was doing music for "Full Metal Jacket," and did a documentary of Stanley on "The Shining." But Stanley became overpowering to her and so Vivian decided about five years ago to make her own life in Los Angeles. She really adored Stanley but he tried to control every move she made. I think in a way she had the guts to say, "I can't deal with that."
CHRISTIANE KUBRICK: Yes, he was extremely sad when she decided to go there.
KEN ADAM: He was a family man and felt very secure in the family, and insecure even when Christiane came to a women's outing with my wife. Stanley used to ring up many times to find out how she was, when she was coming back.
CHRISTIANE KUBRICK: With each film, I wanted to see it less before it was finished. He wanted that also. Neither of us liked when you're in the middle of some work and the other says, "Can I say what I'm thinking?" But he would often sit with me when I was painting -- because painters are sort of like sitting ducks -- and he would say, "I won't say anything." "What?!" "Nothing, nothing -- I said I won't say anything. Can't I say just one thing?" And he would say whatever it was that he liked or didn't like or thought he liked better the day before. I reacted badly, especially if it was something I had a sneaking feeling wasn't going well. You hate somebody to be right, don't you? But now that he doesn't stand there, it's awful.
SYDNEY POLLACK (director, producer, actor; phone relationship with Kubrick since early 70's; featured role in "Eyes Wide Shut"): My initial take on my part in "Eyes Wide Shut" was very different from what Stanley wanted. I came in with the idea of being tougher with the character of Tom Cruise because he had done something that I disapproved of strongly. And then Stanley had an idea of my wanting to manipulate him more and therefore be kinder, and he was very specific about how to communicate that. He knew I was another director -- he didn't have to beat around the bush. He wasn't trying to work any psychological tricks with me. And he was crazy about both Tom and Nicole.
I always think of Stanley literally on the edge of a smile. His eyes always had mischief in them. He always had this sense of the devil in him while he was very calmly asking questions. He read everything, and knew absolutely all aspects of the business, including literally what the box-office receipts of every theater in the world were over the past few years.
TERRY SEMEL (co-chairman, Warner Brothers film division; worked closely with Kubrick since "Barry Lyndon"): He made the movie at a very modest price by today's standards. He always shot with very small crews and very low daily rates. From time to time, he would decide to close down for a week or two and spend a little bit more time on the script or other aspects. So, economically, his process was terrific, since it didn't matter how long it took him to shoot because he was shooting at insignificant per-day rates. So there was no problem -- no pressure on either himself or the studio.
SYDNEY POLLACK: Cruise woke me up on Thursday morning to tell me how great he thought the picture was. I called Stanley and we talked for an hour and a half or so and I told him how thrilled Tom was. Then I spoke with Terry and Bob Daly, co-chairman of Warner Brothers and they were absolutely ecstatic and four days later he died.
STEVE SOUTHGATE: Two days before he died, he sent me over to Las Vegas with the first trailer of "Eyes Wide Shut" for the Sho West convention. As it was the first time ever that anyone was going to see anything from the movie, he wanted to make sure that the projection was perfect. He gave me specific instructions: we had to clear the room at 3 o'clock in the morning, make sure everybody was gone and just the projectionist and I rehearsed it. The last conversation I had was: "I trust you to go and do this in Vegas. Let me know how everybody reacts. Ring me during the screening -- take your mobile phone -- I want to hear what the reaction is." And while I was on the plane, he died.
TERRY SEMEL: I had talked to him two different times the day that he died. He had called me for about an hour apiece, and he was in great spirits. And his second call, which would've been the early evening of the night he actually died, was really to kind of review millions of details on the marketing. He was more outspoken and more excited than I think I had ever heard him.
CHRISTIANE KUBRICK: I thought he was awfully tired, and he never slept much -- ever -- in his whole life. Then I thought he was really overdoing it with this last film. Sleeping less and less. He also was a doctor's son and he wouldn't see a doctor. He gave himself his own medicine if he wasn't feeling well or he would phone friends -- it was the one thing he did that I thought was really stupid.
JAN HARLAN: Luckily we got permission from the local authorities to have his grave in his garden. In Hertfordshire it was only the second time -- the first was Bernard Shaw.
LOUIS BLAU: The most unique burial ceremony was done with utmost taste and in typical Kubrick fashion. He's buried among his animals: dogs, cats, squirrels.
MATTHEW MODINE: At his funeral I was so happy to find that he was being buried in his garden, in the land that he loved so much. I was going to speak, but Tom Cruise and Nicole and Steven Spielberg had spoken before and there was sort of a program created for the funeral. I was surprised at how little they knew of him -- in my opinion -- from the things that were being said. The person I spent almost 18 months with was very different from the one being described. With the exception of Jan Harlan, who spoke really eloquently, and the one thing that his daughter Vivian said at the funeral. She'd read pieces of her father's diary and wanted to share something: That he had looked for a limit to caring -- some kind of summit -- and found that whenever he felt as if he'd reached that summit, there was always further you could go.
JAMES B. HARRIS: I didn't speak at the funeral. I don't think I could have stayed composed enough to do it. I sat there and I listened to all these other people that I felt didn't really know him. I felt that I was the only one there aside from his family that knew him. And I was listening to all that stuff and I'm thinking: It's great, heads of studios and major movie stars and all this. And I'm the guy that played Ping-Pong with him, and went through the marriages and the divorces and all of that stuff. Knowing how Stanley was such a perfectionist -- he may have killed himself on this picture.
I forgot my raincoat in the tent, and I went back to get it, and the six guys who had walked in with the casket, peculiar-looking guys dressed in morning coats or whatever, finishing up the grave. And I'm thinking: "Jesus, this is what it's come to. Six strangers dumping the dirt on him."
GERALD FRIED: I hope his last hour was cool. I played on a ball club called the Barracudas in the Bronx, and I remember Stanley -- he was about 18, 19 -- he wanted to get into a game and he wasn't a good athlete and the guys didn't want him and I said, "Come on, give him a chance." We let him play, and his face lit up.
CHRISTIANE KUBRICK: Even the most ordinary things, he would give them such extra insight that they became interesting. He talked all the time, and so I now never have this rain of words. I'm very sad now but I was personally very lucky that I always felt very loved and many people can't say that.
SYDNEY POLLACK: People say he had these phobias, he wouldn't go here and wouldn't go there. The truth is he lived in a paradise -- there wasn't any reason for him to go anywhere. It was a kind of a heaven. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a brief report in the Jersey Footlights column last Sunday about the Crossroads Theater Company gave an incomplete name for the director of "Venice," a play to be produced next year. He is Charles Randolph-Wright.
A picture caption on page 22 of The Times Magazine today, with the article about Stanley Kubrick, misstates the origin of a picture of Sue Lyon. It was taken by David Sutton at a promotional event; it is not from the movie "Lolita," which was made in black and white.

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Matthew Modine); On the set of "Dr. Strangelove," or how he sent up the cold war. (Archive Photos); Fear and Desire, 1953; Killer's Kiss, 1955; The Killing, 1956; Paths of Glory, 1957; Lolita, 1962; Spartacus, 1960; Dr. Strangelove, 1964 (Film Still from Everett Collection, Photofest, Globe Photos, Motion Picture and Television Archive); On the set of "Eyes Wide Shut," with Kidman and Madison Eginton. A hand rub was high praise. (Manuel Harlan/Warner Brothers); Final take: Cruise and Kidman on the way to the funeral in London. (Camera Press/Retna LTD); 2001: A Space Odyssey, 1968; A Clockwork Orange, 1971; Barry Lyndon, 1975; The Shining, 1980; Full Metal Jacket, 1987; Eyes Wide Shut, 1999 (Film Stills from Globe Photos, Everett Collection, Sygma, Warner Brothers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (59%); 

COMPANY: CROSSROADS THEATER CO (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); NEW JERSEY, USA (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes.Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. THEATER & DRAMA (92%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); DANCERS (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); MUSIC (73%); WRITERS (72%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: JOHN MILIUS (67%); CHRISTIANE KUBRICK (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1999



593 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Personal Character Goes Only So Far

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe; Alan Wolfe, a sociology professor at Boston University, is the author, most recently, of "One Nation, After All."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
James Madison once wrote that if all men were angels, government would not be necessary.
In his family life, Vice President Al Gore, an ideal husband and father, is as close to an angel as a high governmental official can get. Not only that, he has played up his high moral standards by repeatedly calling President Clinton's behavior "inexcusable."
Yet despite getting an "A" for personal character, Mr. Gore, at least according to the polls, has not proved to be as popular as the man he would replace. 
 The polls, of course, can, and probably will, change. But whatever the future, American voters are already saying something important about the role that personal character ought to play in politics.
There are basically two different theories about character and politics. To some voters, personal character matters because it is a surrogate for public policy. Most voters do not know all that much about the stands their politicians take on tariffs or antitrust legislation. They pay more attention to a candidate's personal life than to his political platform.
Of course, the fact that someone is faithful to his wife does not guarantee that he will be firm toward our enemies or will push a bill through Congress, but for many, it's a helpful start. Voters trusted Harry Truman because, as little as they knew about his views, they believed him to be a good family man.
They did not fully trust Nelson Rockefeller, a man with considerable experience and leadership potential, because they believed that his willingness to seek a divorce in order to marry someone else demonstrated a fecklessness inappropriate to the responsibilities of Presidential power.
But there is another, far more popular approach to character. Followers of this theory pay little or no attention to a candidate's personal character and focus instead on what he stands for -- his political character. Indeed, even though we now know about Franklin Roosevelt's mistress or John F. Kennedy's affairs, for most of us, our positive opinions of those Presidents have not diminished. Americans enthusiastically elected Ronald Reagan, despite his earlier divorce and despite evidence that he may not have been the most attentive of fathers, because he held out a vision of America they admired.
And then came Bill Clinton. Critics of the President's dangerous pursuit of sexual adventure, combined with his less than forthright explanations for his conduct, thought they had convincing proof that a bad man cannot make a good President.
But most Americans believed otherwise. In telling pollsters that they continued to think that President Clinton was doing a good job even though they did not admire him as a person, they rated economic performance and welfare reform as more important to them than bimbo eruptions.
Since the press published photos of Gary Hart and Donna Rice in 1987, the personal lives of candidates have been subjected to hyper-scrutiny. Operating on the theory that character matters, the news media feel they have an obligation to let the public know everything about a politician's personal life that might affect his public performance. Meanwhile the public seems to operate on the premise that personal flaws do not matter.
Alas, it takes a man of good character, like Mr. Gore, to expose the fact that a candidate's personal deeds don't necessarily work in his favor. People are saying, devil or angel -- they do not care.
A lthough Mr. Gore can take no comfort from his low poll numbers, the rest of us can. A decade or so of the politics of personal destruction will have produced only a few victims. Now maybe the rest of us can concentrate more on a candidate's public pronouncements, and less on his private life.
Certainly, to some degree Mr. Gore recognizes that personal character alone will not win him the Presidency. That is clearly why his campaign kickoff speech emphasized that faith can play an important practical role in solving America's problems. He also tends to pepper his oratory with talk about suburban sprawl and the Internet.
These topics, however, are more for policy wonks who want minutiae than for voters who want vision. For all his strength of personal character, Mr. Gore has not yet given voters a reason to admire his political character. Americans still want politicians to tell us what kind of leadership they will provide.
Mr. Gore gives his opponents no grounds for relying on the politics of personal destruction. But personal probity is not enough. In the post-character phase of our politics, he will be an effective candidate only to the degree that he speaks to the important needs of the country, not to his own personal rectitude.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (53%); 

PERSON: WOLFE, ALAN (PROF); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



594 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Sales Are Limited to Bills This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week is confined to today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills.
By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.65 percent and a six-month bill was 4.89 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Corporate Office Properties, 1.25 million shares, NR/NR/---. Prudential Securities.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
Clark County School District, Nev., $87.7 million of general obligation series A bonds. Competitive.
Clark County School District, Nev., $100 million of general obligation series B bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Cheektowaga, N.Y., $146.8 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
California Infrastructure and Economic Development Authority, $70 million of bank revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Grandbury, Tex., Independent School District, $73 million of debt securities. First Southwest Company.
Lauderdale County and the City of Florence, Ala., $126 million in debt securities for Alabama Health Care Authority, Eliza Coffee Hospital. Salomon Smith Barney.
Lucas County, Ohio, $175 million of hospital revenue bonds for Pro-Medica Health Care Obligated Group. J. P. Morgan Securities.
New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund Authority, $450 million in debt securities. Merrill Lynch & Co.
New York State Environmental Corp., $94.6 million in state clean water and drinking water revenue bonds. First Albany Corp.
Ohio Building Authority, $138 million in debt securities. Paine Webber Inc.
Pennsylvania Economic Development, $110 million in debt securities for U.S. Gypsum project. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Port Authority of Allegheny County, Pa., $74 million in debt securities. Paine Webber Inc.
Sedgwick and Shawnee Counties, Kan., $70 million in single-family mortgage revenue bonds. George K. Baum & Co.
Snohomish County, Wash., Public Utility District No. 1, $181 million in electric system revenue and refunding bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
West Virginia, $110 million in general obligation bonds. Salomon Smith Barney. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GLCH (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (70%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AURORA, OH, USA (51%); AKRON, OH, USA (50%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (70%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); FIRST SOUTHWEST CO (68%); GLEACHER & CO INC (66%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (64%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); CLARK COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLARK COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); AURORA, OH, USA (51%); AKRON, OH, USA (50%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BONDS (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAX LAW (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); HOSPITALS (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); WATER QUALITY (62%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



595 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Giant Fraud Claims First Corporate Victimsin Insurance Industry

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
The effects of a giant insurance fraud involving a Connecticut money manager are rippling across the industry and have already claimed their first two corporate casualties.
Faced with sudden, overwhelming losses as a result of the scandal involving more than $300 million in missing money, a small Virginia life insurer was seized by state regulators, and a New York insurance company confronted with $67 million in unexpected liabilities was forced into a merger. 
 The downfall of the two insurance companies -- the Capital Re Corporation of New York and the Settlers Life Insurance Company of Bristol, Va. -- occurred in recent weeks, but their connection to the scandal involving the money manager, Martin R. Frankel, has emerged only in the last few days.
The two companies' troubles underscore what may be one of the most significant aspects of the scandal: the fundamental structure of the insurance business means that companies across the industry -- and not just those directly linked to Mr. Frankel -- are potentially at risk.
Government investigators think Mr. Frankel, a reclusive Greenwich, Conn., money manager who vanished in early May, orchestrated a fraud over almost a decade in which he embezzled huge sums of money from insurance companies that he controlled.
But neither Capital Re nor Settlers Life was controlled by Mr. Frankel. Rather, they did business with his companies. As the scandal unfolded, both companies found themselves liable for huge sums of money as a result of their transactions with the Frankel empire.
Insurance experts said such damage could continue to spread through the industry as other transactions with companies controlled by Mr. Frankel were uncovered. Even insurers that had no dealings with the companies under Mr. Frankel's control are likely to suffer financially. They will be required to contribute to funds designed to make sure policyholders do not suffer losses. Potentially, the contributions to the fund could lead to increased premium costs for other policyholders.
Regulators estimate losses to Capital Re of about $67 million. They put the Virginia company's losses at about $44 million. Most of the tens of thousands of policies in seven companies controlled by Mr. Frankel provided benefits of less than $5,000 each and were designed to pay for funeral costs, regulators said.
Repeated calls to the offices of Capital Re and to executives' homes on Friday afternoon were not returned. Settlers Life referred calls to state regulators.
Both companies were involved in reinsurance, insurance that backs up the coverage of other insurers and is widely used in the industry to spread risk. In Capital Re's case, a subsidiary acted as an intermediary between one of Mr. Frankel's companies and other insurers.
Steve Divine, the chief financial examiner for the Missouri Department of Insurance, said the Capital Re subsidiary received a commission for passing $67 million in policies to Mr. Frankel's companies. According to Virginia and Mississippi regulators, Settlers Life dealt directly with the First National Life Insurance Company of America, a Mississippi company under Mr. Frankel's control, transferring its own assets and deducting a portion as a fee for itself. Under insurance law, Capital Re and Settlers Life remained liable for the policies.
Because of the lingering liability, it is vital for insurers to accurately assess the financial strength of companies to which they pass on or cede business. The Frankel-controlled companies that Capital Re and Settlers Life dealt with, like most of Mr. Frankel's companies, had low financial ratings. Most were equivalent to junk bonds. Regulators said that, just as with issuers of junk bonds, it is likely that Mr. Frankel paid higher-than-usual fees to entice companies to transfer assets to him.
Insurers that seek assets from other companies calculate that they will be able to trim administrative costs and raise profits through economies of scale. Many also think that their investing skills will enable them to increase earnings on the assets.
Mr. Frankel portrayed himself as an investing wizard. But regulators say it now appears that his real objective was to amass money in his insurance companies that he could siphon off through his investment company, Liberty National Securities.
The effects of his dealings with Settlers Life were devastating. The company began the year with a comfortable $23 million in capital and surplus. But with the loss in Mr. Frankel's company, Settlers suddenly found itself more than $25 million short of the minimum of $4 million in capital and surplus that Virginia requires of insurers, and the regulators stepped in.
The losses with Mr. Frankel's companies were the latest in a series of blows to Capital Re, which specializes in reinsuring relatively low-risk bond insurance. It was forced to set aside $44.1 million to cover claims on securities sold by Commercial Financial Services, a credit-card debt company that sought bankruptcy protection last December. It also reported potential losses of as much as $10 million in the insolvency of a Pittsburgh hospital system. In December, Michael E. Satz, who had been chief executive since helping to found Capital Re in 1988, was replaced by Jerome F. Jurschak, another founder.
In February, Ace Ltd., one of the world's leaders in high-stakes commercial insurance, agreed to provide Capital Re with $75 million in exchange for a 12 percent stake in the company.
In March, Moody's Investors Service cut Capital Re's financial rating by two notches from Moody's highest level, and the insurer's stock value dropped 16 percent. Ace then negotiated more favorable terms on its investment.
An insurance trade publication, the National Underwriter, reported in April that Ace was offering to buy Capital Re. But, the trade paper said, Capital Re executives were unwilling; the company's stock would have to rebound before they agreed. The stock was then trading at $19.25.
But over the Memorial Day weekend, with its stock several dollars lower, Capital Re simultaneously disclosed $67 million in losses and its decision to accept a merger offer from Ace for about $600 million in stock. That worked out to about book value. Analysts said similar companies would be expected to sell for one and a half to two times that.
When Capital Re disclosed the losses, Mr. Frankel's connection with the failed companies was not known. Initially, the regulators' seizure of Settlers Life also appeared to be an isolated case.
Several analysts said the latest losses would have increased pressure for another reduction in financial ratings, which might have been disastrous for Capital Re. But by joining with Ace, which has an estimated $31 billion in assets, Capital Re's finances were immediately shored up.
"They didn't have much of a choice," Ira Zuckerman, an analyst at Nutmeg Securities, said. "They pretty much had to take Ace's offer."
Matthew L. Vetto, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said that in Capital Re's area of specialization, backing up bonds, high financial ratings are essential. "Contracts are signed on the basis of credit quality," he said. "If that changes, the business can leave."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Money Trail"
The Government has said that Martin R. Frankel, operating under several aliases, defrauded a group of insurance companies out of hundreds of millions of dollars in an elaborate scheme that involved shell corporations and offshore bank accounts. Here is what the Government said happened in one transaction.
 
Settlers Life Insurance Company
PUB-DATE: April 9, 1999
Bought reinsurance from the First National Life Insurance Company of America, a company controlled by a Frankel foundation, for $44 million.
 
First National Bank of Tennessee
PUB-DATE: April 9, 1999
Settlers wired the money into an account First National had at this bank.
 
Dreyfus Company
PUB-DATE: April 9, 1999
First National transferred the money to an account at Dreyfus managed by Liberty National Securities, a company run by Frankel.
 
UBS Stamford Bank
PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999
The money was wired to a clearing account used by a Geneva-based bank, Banque SCS Alliance.
 
Banque SCS Alliance
PUB-DATE: April 12, 1999
The money ends up in a Swiss bank account opened by Bloomfield Investments, a company owned by David Rosse, an alias of Frankel. (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KRE (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: CAPITAL RE CORP; SETTLERS LIFE INSURANCE CO SETTLERS LIFE INSURANCE CO (84%); CAPITAL RE CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAPITAL RE CORP; SETTLERS LIFE INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKRUPTCIES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY INSURANCE (95%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INSURANCE FRAUD (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); SCANDALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); REINSURANCE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (59%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MARTIN R; TREASTER, JOSEPH B MARTIN R FRANKEL (94%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



596 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Brazilians Take to the Web With Uncommon Speed

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil

 BODY:
Pierre Schurmann, one of Brazil's Internet barons, did not know things would develop so fast.
Three years ago, Mr. Schurmann, 30, founded Zeek, a popular search engine. Earlier this year, he sold Zeek to the Star Media Network, a company that was formed to seek out Internet opportunities in Latin America, and became director of new business development in Brazil. Then Star Media went public with a stock offering on Nasdaq. 
 "The speed of it all is amazing," Mr. Schurmann said in an interview. "I'm not sure when the 18-hour days are going to let up."
They will probably continue for some time because Star Media is facing competition from companies including Yahoo Inc., Microsoft, America Online, Psinet and Telefonica S.A. -- that are jumping into Brazil's portal war.
The growing competition in Brazil among portals, the Web pages people often use for information and links to other sites, may be a preview of how large Internet companies will spread in other parts of the non-English-speaking world.
"This is perhaps the most competitive portal market in the world at this time," said Osvaldo Barbosa de Oliveira, the head of Microsoft's on-line operations in Brazil. Mr. Oliveira cited the entry this year of the three largest portals, America Online, Yahoo and Microsoft, plus competition from companies that provide local-language content. In addition, Telefonica of Spain is entering the battle, as well as the Globo organization, Brazil's largest media group.
Microsoft's MSN was the first large foreign portal to establish operations in Brazil, reaching deals with 19 Brazilian content providers. Yahoo quickly followed with its own Portuguese-language portal, opening an office in Sao Paulo this month, while America Online, whose partner in Latin America is the Cisneros Group of Venezuela, is expected to start operations this week.
Making Brazil a priority is easy to understand. With a single currency, set of borders and regulatory framework for nearly 165 million people, this country is an easier target for expansion than the many Spanish-speaking countries stretching from Mexico to Argentina. "Brazil is another animal altogether because you get a huge market with a common culture in one swoop," said Laura d'Oliveira, the president of the Sky3 in Hollywood, Fla., which specializes in making corporate Web sites more profitable through on-line marketing in Latin America.
The number of people using the Internet in Brazil grew 130 percent last year, making it Latin America's most wired nation, accounting for half of the region's six million people on the Web, according to the International Data Corporation. And despite a weak economy and big gaps between rich and poor, industry experts expect the number of Internet users in Brazil to grow 60 to 100 percent over the next three years.
Those users pay rates for Internet access that are comparable to those in the United States. The top two providers charge about $20 and $12 a month, respectively, for unlimited access. Others charge a fee for a certain amount of time and then more for each extra hour. For instance, IBM Brazil charges $23 a month for 30 hours of access and $1.50 for each additional hour.
Much of the growth in Internet use has taken place through the efforts and innovation of local companies like Universo Online, Brazil's largest service provider and portal, with 400,000 subscribers. Universo Online, which is owned by two large media concerns, Grupo Folha and Grupo Abril, is known for imaginative strategies like using live on-line ads to sell cars two years ago, when such practices were rare anywhere.
Although Caio Tulio Costa, the managing director of Universo Online, declined to comment on speculation that the company had been in takeover talks with a large portal company starting operations in Brazil, he acknowledged that Universo Online was close to selling a 10 percent stake to a new partner. And the company has begun its own buying spree, with the purchase last week of Miner Technology, a company in central Brazil that creates Web sites.
While newcomers learn to compete with entrenched locals, the portal war is taking place amid two bigger transformations. The first is the invigoration of Brazil's telecommunications system, a change that occurred after the nation's telephone monopoly was privatized and opened to competition in 1998. That has increased telephone and Internet access nationwide, something is expected to continue.
The second is the consolidation among Internet service providers, or I.S.P.'s, a trend underlined by the recent purchase of two leading providers by Psinet of Herndon, Va., catapulting Psinet into the ranks of the country's five largest.
"By acquiring I.S.P.'s in Brazil, we're tapping into a market for E-commerce that should grow by 75 to 100 percent over the next couple of years," said Philippe Kuperman, head of Psinet's Latin American activities. Though companies like Yahoo are largely in search of advertising revenue, Psinet hopes to make money by providing specific services to the corporate market.
In a similar, yet wider-reaching transaction, Telefonica bought a controlling stake last week in Nutec, Brazil's second-largest service provider and portal. Telefonica, already the biggest telephone company in Brazil after gobbling up many parts of the former state monopoly, bought Nutec to pursue its goal of being the largest portal in the Portuguese- and Spanish-speaking world. Local news organizations speculated that Telefonica paid $500 million for Nutec, although people close to the transaction said its value was considerably less.
Nobody is quite sure when, or how, the dust will settle as the competition among portals gears up and Internet use continues to climb.
"In the U.S. it's hard to find a friend who's not on the Internet, while in Brazil I know many people who aren't connected," said Gabriel Bitran, a Brazilian who is deputy dean at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management and an expert on electronic commerce. "I don't think poverty should be that much of an obstacle as the price of PC's falls." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); TEF (NYSE) (84%); TEF (MCE) (84%); TEF (BIT) (84%); TDE (LSE) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); GBO (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); TELEFONICA SA (84%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (60%); AOL INC (56%); GLOBO PLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

SUBJECT: BRAZIL; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



597 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Russians Drown Sorrows, and Selves

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 27

 BODY:
Poverty and political chaos have surely taken their toll on this nation. But for a look at what is really corroding Russia's soul, take the day off and go to the beach.
That is what Muscovites are doing this month, and they are perishing in numbers that would stagger most Westerners. 
 In the first 20 days of June, 89 people drowned in Moscow rivers and reservoirs. During a holiday weekend in mid-June, the police fished at least 13 bodies out of Moscow waters every day -- the average number of daily drownings for the entire United States.
Nor is it just Moscow's problem. The annual drowning rate for Russia is almost 10 per 100,000, compared with 1.68 per 100,000 in the United States. Russian men, who account for the vast bulk of drownings, die at an annual rate of 1 in 5,700.
"Those are huge numbers, bigger than the murder rate in the U.S.," said Philip C. Graitcer, an Emory University professor and author of a paper on injury rates in the former Soviet Union, referring to the rate for Russian men. "They're astounding."
But not to most Russians. They already know what autopsies of this month's drowned Muscovites show in black and white: 94 percent of the victims were drunk when they died.
Alcohol has a death grip on this nation, and the statistics on drownings and other injuries show vividly how powerful that grip is. Russia has about twice the rate of fatal injuries, including murders and suicides, that the United States has.
Among the kinds of deaths commonly linked to alcohol, the rate is roughly 1.5 times as high in Russia as in the United States for automobile accidents and three times as high for suicides. Alcohol poisonings alone are three times the rate of all poisonings in the United States.
Killings are more common in Russia; fatal falls occur more often. Even Russian women die from drowning at twice the rate of Americans.
But by far the heaviest toll is exacted on men, who statistics show drink more and die needlessly far more often in Russia than virtually anywhere on earth.
By some studies, men here drink eight times as much alcohol as do women, and their death rates from accidents and injuries far exceed those of women in almost every category -- from fires, for example, by a factor of three; from alcohol poisoning, by a factor of five.
For Russian men, "it's a terrible tragedy," said Sergei Yermakov, the principal researcher for the Russian Ministry of Public Health and an expert on mortality. "And unfortunately the people who are responsible for social policy, they don't understand that all of their forces should be aimed at prevention."
Alcohol has historically been a major problem in Russia, dating to the time of the czars. Bad as the situation is today, it was far worse just five years ago, when, in statistical terms, Russia bottomed out.
From 1990 to 1994 -- the years when the old Soviet Union and, after its collapse in 1991, Russia were in the deepest throes of economic and social change -- deaths from almost all causes skyrocketed. The death rate for injuries alone rose 83 percent.
Mr. Yermakov and others attribute many, though not all, of those increases to the historic stresses on almost everyone during those days. That, combined with the end of the Government monopoly on alcohol sales, set off a huge increase in drinking, especially among men.
"It was the pace of reform," said Vladimir M. Shkolnikov, a Russian Academy of Science mathematician who is probably the country's leading expert on mortality. "It was labor force turnover, the magnitude of change in the early 90's."
Curiously, the death statistics have fallen since then, back to the approximate levels of 1990, perhaps because many of the people most vulnerable to stress simply died off, some experts say. But it must be remembered that those levels, and today's, remain exceedingly high, Mr. Shkolnikov added.
Drownings like those in Moscow this month offer an exceptional look at how drunkenness accounts for such a vast share of deaths from injury. The typical drowning in America occurs in a swimming pool, and many victims are unsupervised children.
In Russia some of the high rate may be accounted for by the fact that Russians often take dips in lakes and reservoirs, where swimming may be banned and no lifeguard is present. And many of the victims are indeed children.
But unlike the situation in the United States, the prime candidate for drowning in Russia is a male between the ages of 15 and 65. The annual drowning rate for that group is 20 per 100,000.
Mr. Yermakov said alcohol was certainly behind the high rates. Alcohol plays a role in accidental deaths in many countries, of course. Even in the United States and parts of Western Europe, it is said to be a factor in 50 to 70 percent of drownings, not to mention its role in traffic accidents and homicides.
But in Russia the trend is so pronounced that the high rate of male deaths from injuries is one of the major reasons why Russian women live longer than men -- more than 12 years longer, in fact, the biggest gap in the developed world.
Researchers say they know beyond a doubt that alcohol is a major factor because they saw what happened in the late 1980's, when the last Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, tried to stem his nation's decline by cracking down hard on consumption of vodka with restrictions on its sale and an increase in alcoholism treatment programs.
During that two-year campaign, deaths from injuries and poisonings plummeted so dramatically that the drop added a full two years to the life expectancy of Russian men and a half-year to that of women.
When Mr. Gorbachev gave up on his campaign in 1987, injury deaths promptly rose again. By 1992 they had sliced more than two years back off the average man's expected life span.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Swimmers in a Moscow river ignoring a sign forbidding bathing in that area. In the first 20 days of June, 89 people drowned in the city's rivers and reservoirs, a high number that the authorities say is linked to alcohol. (Peter Blakely/SABA, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: DROWNINGS; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); POISONINGS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (72%); MURDER (72%); RIVERS (71%); SUICIDE (70%); AUTOPSIES (67%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (63%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL SERGEI YERMAKOV (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



598 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
A Data Island To Narrow A Silicon Gap

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
WILLIAM TUCKER, who is one of the more prescient people in New York, has an idea for transforming the city's economy. It came to him one day as he was bicycling from home across the Brooklyn Bridge to Silicon Alley, the downtown enclave of new technology companies.
At 56, Mr. Tucker is a journalist turned Internet matchmaker. After writing books about crime, housing and the environment -- whose ideas, unfortunately for his sales, were about five years ahead of popular fashion -- he founded a Web site (www.theelevator.com) to match entrepreneurs with investors. He also began wondering why Silicon Alley was so far behind Silicon Valley. 
 New York, he figured, had missed much of the computer revolution because of two crucial problems. The first was the lack of a dominant engineering school like Stanford University or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, whose professors and graduates started the computer industries near their campuses.
The second problem was the structure of New York's corporations, the same handicap that caused Boston's computer pioneers to fall behind California's. The East Coast was dominated by large, insulated companies -- I.B.M. near New York, Digital Equipment on Boston's Route 128 -- that discouraged collaboration with outsiders. They lost out to the network of small entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley who freely exchanged ideas.
Crossing the Brooklyn Bridge a year ago, Mr. Tucker decided that the answer to both problems was sitting in the harbor a half mile south of Manhattan's lower tip. The official name was Governors Island, but he saw something else: Information Island. He has since become its unpaid spokesman.
"Imagine this as the nerve center of the 21st-century economy," he said last week as he led a tour of the island's defunct Coast Guard base, whose 225 buildings on 172 acres are to be sold by the Federal Government in 2002. He envisions turning the historic buildings and sweeping lawns of the northern end into a technology hub run by a nonprofit group. The anchor tenants would be the information-science departments of five engineering schools: Brooklyn Polytechnic, City University, Columbia, Cooper Union and New York University.
"You won't have a hard time attracting world-class talent to this beautiful campus a five-minute ferry ride from Manhattan," he said, standing in a courtyard within the 200-year-old ramparts of Fort Jay. "Here's the quadrangle where students and professors from all the schools could hang out. Then, when they come up with a good idea, they can develop it right here on the island. This will be the place where New York's technology community comes together."
HE imagines buildings occupied by research divisions of established computer companies. There would be a hotel and center for technology conferences, and, most important, a "business incubator" providing small offices and support services to start-up firms. "When these firms make it big," he said, "they can move a few hundred yards across the water to Manhattan or into the empty buildings on the Brooklyn waterfront."
Who would run the island? Who would pay for it? Not Mr. Tucker. "I hope someone else will take over this," he said. "I'm just trying to get the ball rolling. I see it as my Eagle Scout public service project." He will discuss it with leaders of Silicon Alley and New York's engineering schools at a July 12 meeting sponsored by the New York Software Industry Association.
"It's a very promising idea," said Bruce Bernstein, the trade group's president. "I can imagine a lot of our members on the island. The start-up companies could use the cheap space in the business incubator, and our midsize members could be there working with professors there and recruiting interns from the schools."
Information Island faces competition from other ideas for the island -- museums, a sculpture garden, an amusement park, a resort -- but Mr. Tucker sounded confident as he ended the tour. He pointed out a site for a restaurant with a stunning view of the lower Manhattan skyline.
"This is the perfect place for smart people to come together and figure out the future," he said. "You're on an island, a retreat that lets you step back a little and get perspective, but you're still close to Wall Street's money and energy. This is the place to come up with the new ideas that will pay." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (69%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GOVERNORS ISLAND; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WRITERS (71%); FERRIES (70%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (50%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; TUCKER, WILLIAM WILLIAM TUCKER (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



599 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Hugh Carter Sr., 78, Bait Seller And Aide to His Cousin Jimmy

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Hugh Alton Carter Sr., a former Georgia state legislator and businessman who had a central role in the campaigns of his first cousin Jimmy Carter and turned his store into a center of Jimmy Carter lore, died Thursday at a hospital in Americus, Ga. He was 78 and lived in nearby Plains.
The cause was complications of pneumonia and heart failure, his family said. 
 Mr. Carter, a large-scale worm farmer and antiques dealer, succeeded his cousin Jimmy in the State Senate and held on to the seat for 14 years until he stepped down in 1981.
Representing eight Georgia counties, he served as chairman of the Senate Education Committee and was a senior member of the Appropriations, Rules and Fiscal Affairs Committees.
He graduated from two-year Georgia Southwestern College and in 1941 from the University of Georgia. As an Army lieutenant in World War II, he saw combat in Europe, then remained in the reserves and retired as a lieutenant colonel in 1964.
After the war he opened a business, Hugh Carter's Worm Farm, growing crickets and worms for fish bait. The company shipped bait nationwide and advertised itself as the largest worm farm in the world before he closed it three years ago.
Mr. Carter also turned the family's general merchandise store into Hugh Carter's Antique Shop, a tourist mecca during the Carter Presidency. Along with Carter trinkets and memorabilia, he dispensed local lore and political philosophy to visiting reporters. He retired from the business in 1996.
As a state senator, Mr. Carter was active in his cousin's early political campaigns. He raised some hackles in his immediate family with the publication of his memoir, "Cousin Beedie and Cousin Hot" (Prentice-Hall, 1978).
It contained some unkind asides about the President's mother. But over all it told of a warm and continuing relationship between the cousins of the title, himself and Jimmy Carter.
A key factor in Mr. Carter's life was his Baptist faith. He served for many years in the Plains Baptist Church and, later, Maranatha Baptist Church of Plains, as a song leader, church clerk and deacon.
Mr. Carter is survived by his wife of 57 years, Ruth Godwin Carter; a son, Hugh A. Jr. of Atlanta; two daughters, Dr. Laurie C. Tharpe of Macon, Ga., and Connie C. Collins of Byron, Ga.; a brother, Donnel, of Sea Island, Ga., and seven grandchildren.
When Gov. Jimmy Carter became a serious Presidential contender in 1975, the Secret Service and the press corps discovered Plains, a small farming community of a few hundred souls. The agents went native, changing from knit suits into bib overalls.
From his gift shop, cousin Hugh, unfooled, explained to members of the press how he spotted G-men "sauntering" about town: their "new and unbleached" denims made them stick out like the proverbial sore thumb.
After Jimmy Carter lost his bid for re-election, Mr. Carter condensed his analysis for the press to one word, "Inflation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hugh Alton Carter Sr. (Associated Press, 1976)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (98%); 

CITY: MACON, GA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); GEORGIA, USA (98%); MACON, GA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); DEATHS (90%); MISC ANIMAL PRODUCTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (76%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (76%); POLITICS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); NEWS REPORTING (69%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (63%); PNEUMONIA (56%); 

PERSON: CARTER, HUGH ALTON SR; SAXON, WOLFGANG; CARTER, JIMMY JIMMY CARTER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



600 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Tough Year Is Projected For Farms Of Russia

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 27

 BODY:
A blisteringly hot summer and the reverberations from Russia's economic crisis have taken a devastating toll on the nation's crops, making it likely that Moscow will appeal for American food aid, according to Russian and American officials.
Russia had hoped to harvest 70 million tons of grain this year. But Western experts estimate that Russian farms will yield no more than 55 million tons. 
 The setback comes on the heels of last year's harvest, at 47.8 million tons the worst in Russia in more than 40 years. Instead of the turnaround in food production that the Kremlin had hoped for, Russian Government officials have begun to prepare the public for another tough year.
While formal talks on additional aid have not yet begun, Agriculture Minister Vladimir Shcherbak told reporters last week that Moscow wanted America to donate animal feed, like soybeans, soy meal and maize.
By using donated feed to sustain its cattle, Russia would have more grain available to feed people. The Government also hopes to sell the donated animal feed at home and use the proceeds to improve agricultural production, Mr. Shcherbak told Reuters news agency.
Entering a heated political year, the Kremlin has powerful political incentives to try to keep consumers and farmers happy -- or at least to make them somewhat less unhappy.
First, the Communists will be angling to expand their control over the legislature when parliamentary elections are held in December.
Next, candidates will be maneuvering to succeed Boris N. Yeltsin in presidential elections scheduled for next summer, and Mr. Yeltsin has taken a strong interest in determining his successor.
Russia's food needs are an important political factor in the United States, as well. Expanded food aid to Russia would be a boon to the American farmer, a consideration for the Democrats as they seek to keep control of the White House next year.
The United States has already agreed to provide 3.2 million tons of grain, meat and other food to Russia. Much of the approximately $700 million worth of food was donated, while the remainder was financed by a 20-year loan at nominal interest. Washington also footed the transportation costs, bringing the total value of the aid effort to around $1 billion.
But with American stocks of grain, beef and pork at near-record levels, the Clinton Administration is ready to provide even more help.
"My guess is they're going to want additional assistance," the United States Agriculture Secretary, Dan Glickman, said on Friday, referring to the Russians. "Absolutely, we'd look at a package. Obviously, there are the resources here."
There are many reasons why Russia has failed to produce enough food. The collective farms established during the Soviet Union have been reorganized more in name than in fact. Last year's financial crisis impeded the already lagging investments in seed, fertilizer, animal feed and farm equipment.
Then, Russia was hit by another spell of bad weather. The scorchingly hot and dry weather so far this summer has been particularly severe in southern Russia along the Volga River, an important agricultural region.
Russia's Agriculture Ministry had initially hoped for 70 million tons this year.
Gradually, however, the estimates have been revised downward. Mr. Shcherbak, the Agriculture Minister, said last week that the grain harvest may yield only 55 million to 60 million tons.
Some Western specialists say even that is too optimistic. One expert said Russia would likely harvest no more than 53 million to 55 million tons of grain. Of that, no more than 30 million tons would be wheat.
Russia could use some of its better-quality feed grain to sustain Russian consumers instead of cattle. That, however, could hurt livestock production, which has been steadily decreasing.
"One thing has to give: food or feed," a Western expert said. "They need support to make ends meet."
Grain reserves already have been depleted in the effort to make up the grain shortfall of last year.
That leaves food aid, which Russia's former Agriculture Minister, Gennady Kulik, raised informally during talks in Washington in March. His successor, Mr. Shcherbak, apparently alluded to those proposals in his comments last week. Sensitive to wounded Russian pride, however, he insisted that it not be called aid.
The Clinton Administration is also sensitive to potential political risks of further aid, in particular charges that it would be undermined by Russian corruption. Now that more than one-third of the already promised 3.2 million tons have been delivered without allegations of major abuse, Washington appears ready to discuss further assistance. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FOOD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WEATHER INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LIVESTOCK FEED (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ANIMAL FOODS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); MEATS (76%); FERTILIZERS (73%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); TRENDS (72%); PORK (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999

 
