

201 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
After a Promising Start, the Market Stalls

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The week began with a stock rally and good economic news, as an important manufacturing index shot to its highest level in two decades. 
 The stage appeared to be set for the Dow Jones industrial average to close above 10,000 for the first time in 18 months and for the Nasdaq composite index to finish above 2,000 for the first time in almost 23 months. 
 But the market stalled, although the Nasdaq managed a few minutes above 2,000 on Wednesday. Then on Friday the market was undermined when it was reported that fewer jobs were created in November than expected. 
 Technology stocks were hurt by Intel's announcement of a $600 million write-off on an acquisition made four years ago. General Motors and Alcoa led the Dow higher. For the week, the Dow rose 80.22 points, or 0.8 percent, to 9,862.68. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index inched up 3.3 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,061.50 as Symbol Technologies climbed higher. The Nasadq rose 29.56 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,989.82. 
 Bonds rallied on Friday on news of the weak jobs report. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note finished at 4.23 percent, down from 4.33 percent a week ago. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable. General MotorsNYSE: GMShares rose sharply after a Goldman Sachs analyst said that the automaker's heavily burdened pension plan was recovering, which could bolster 2004 earnings.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $46.05WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.64%EST. '03 P/E: 8.71 QualcommNNM: QCOMQualcomm raised its quarterly earnings and revenue forecasts, citing higher-than-expected sales of its mobile phone chips because of strong demand for cellphones with color screens and digital cameras.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $49.48WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.07%EST. '03 P/E: 33.82 Best BuyNYSE: BBYThe largest consumer electronics chain reported mixed third-quarter sales and said it would take a charge of $13 million to write off some technology assets.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $54.09WEEK'S CHANGE: -12.76%EST. '03 P/E: 22.40 JetBlue AirwaysNNM: JBLUThe discount airline said it expects lower operating margins this quarter because its business has been hurt by fare competition and the California wildfires.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $25.86WEEK'S CHANGE: -28.92%EST. '03 P/E: 28.26 Protein Design LabsNNM: PDLIThe company settled a dispute with Genentech over payments for a promising experimental cancer treatment, Avastin. Genentech will license the product if it wins regulatory approval.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $16.15WEEK'S CHANGE: +16.54%EST. '03 P/E: -- Career EducationNNM: CECOThe company, which operates colleges, denied accusations from a former employee that it had inflated student enrollment numbers.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $38.45WEEK'S CHANGE: -25.02%EST. '03 P/E: 33.61 TransmetaNNM: TMTAThe maker of low-power microprocessors said its Efficeon chips will be used in a new computer system made by Hewlett-Packard.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $3.81WEEK'S CHANGE: +15.45%EST. '03 P/E: -- TivoNNM: TIVOShares in the company, which makes digital video recorders, fell after Comcast said it would develop its own recording system for its cable subscribers. This may reduce Tivo's chances of striking deals with cable companies.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $6.48WEEK'S CHANGE: -22.12%EST. '03 P/E: -- (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (83%); ALCOA INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



202 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Spa Luxuries for Less Money

BYLINE:  By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
WHAT holiday gift will you be giving yourself this year? 
 Around a third of all Americans, in fact, plan to add themselves to their gift lists, a recent poll by the marketing research firm Maritz Research Inc. shows. 
 Some people (mostly women) are expected to splurge on a spa getaway, where they can massage, steam and stretch away their seasonal stresses. Those who shop around now can find several discounted packages, many for use after Jan. 1. 
 A good place to start shopping for a spa may be at the International Spa Association's Web site (www.experienceispa.com). The site includes explanations of the various types of spas -- "destination spas," for example, offer extensive programs and have on-site accommodations and special diets, though they're not to be confused with the spas found at hotels -- and tips for choosing the right resort. The site also lists spa companies that belong to the association, all of which must meet certain criteria for membership. 
 "Spas are very mainstream now; although they used to be seen as fat farms for the rich and famous, they're truly not that anymore," Lynne Walker McNees, executive director of the association, said.
 There are more spas to choose from these days. The number of spas in the United States hasgrown, on average, 20 percent a year from 1994 to 2002, to nearly 10,000 today, a recent survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers shows.
 Several Web sites carry special spa deals that are updated regularly, among them: spafinders.com, spa-quest.com, spas.about.com and spamagazine.com. 
 To determine which spa vacation is most appropriate, travel experts say spagoers must first decide the purpose of their visit -- will their stay be an add-on, say, to a business trip, a short getaway or a weeklong visit aimed at rejuvenation? Those interested in the last might prefer a destination spa because it can focus on improvements in the way guests live. 
 Spagoers must then choose the appropriate package. Should they opt for an all-inclusive deal, or buy treatments separately? (If you don't like being wrapped in seaweed and mud, or you're not interested in tennis lessons, the a la carte option may be the way to go.) 
 Whatever the package, it's important to get the specifics in writing, travel experts say. Here are a few other tips for finding the best deals:
 Don't be star-struck. While the rich and famous may frequent the better-known spas, like Canyon Ranch, which has locations in Lenox, Mass., and Tucson, lesser-known spas usually offer better rates, and they provide similar treatments.
 Head south (or north) of the border. Your dollar will probably go further in Mexico and Canada. Some noteworthy spas in Mexico include Rancho la Puerta, in Tecate, and Maya Tulum Resort, in Tulum; and in Canada, Hills Health Ranch, Kingfisher Oceanside Resort and Spa, and Mountain Trek Fitness Retreat and Health Spa, in British Columbia. 
 Visit during a spa's off-peak season. The Spa at Stoweflake, in Stowe, Vt., says its cheapest rates are available now through Dec. 19, and from March 28 through May 28. Three-night packages, which include three 50-minute spa treatments, access to fitness classes, breakfast and accommodations, start at $567 for a standard room, or around 50 percent less than its peak-season rates. Lake Austin Spa Resort in Austin, Tex., has a four-night package that includes accommodations, meals, classes, four 50-minute spa treatments, three 80-minute spa treatments, airport transfers and a monogrammed robe. The cost is $2,070 for a private room or $1,860 for a double room; both rates represent a savings of $510 over peak season rates. The package must be bought by Dec. 31, and the visit must take place by March 11. 
 Travel at midweek. Guests at the Sundara Inn and Spa in Wisconsin Dells, Wis., Sunday through Thursday, now through Feb. 13, can get a suite with a king-size featherbed and fireplace, plus unlimited use of a heated outdoor pool, fitness studio, hiking trails and other services -- for $139 a night, or $90 off the regular price.
 Bring a friend. From Jan. 2-16, the Oaks at Ojai in Ojai, Calif., has a mother-daughter package that costs $159 to $299 a night for the mother and half that rate for the daughter. Both share a room. Spa treatments cost extra, and a two-night minimum stay is required. The New Age Health Spa in Neversink, N.Y., has a two-for-one deal now through April 29, except on holidays. The package, which requires a two-night minimum and four-night maximum stay, Sunday through Thursday, lets two people share a double room and pay a single occupancy rate. Rates range from $254 to $349 per night, and include accommodations, meals, use of all spa facilities and participation in programs and activities. Treatments are extra.
 Take a day trip. "At most spas, if you buy a treatment, that also includes classes and useof the locker room, steam, sauna, Jacuzzi and relaxation room, where you can often find herbal tea or fruit-infused waters," said Gayle Brady, a spa consultant from Destin, Fla. "If you make a day of it, it starts to become an economic investment." 
 Book at the last minute. This strategy, though, can be risky. Although you might sometimes find a better rate, you might not be able to receive all the treatments you want, because they are often booked weeks in advance. 
 Betty Walker, 52, a homemaker from Atlanta, said she was able to save about $800 by making a weeklong visit to Mii amo in Sedona, Ariz., last January instead of during the spa's peak seasons in the spring and fall. Mrs. Walker said her $2,800 package included meals, accommodations and 13 spa treatments, including therapeutic massages. "One 90-minute massage at home is $100," she said. 
 But the benefits of visiting the spa, she said, went beyond what money could buy. "I was able to just be, not worry about anything at home," she said. "My biggest worry was what time do I eat lunch, before or after my treatment." 
 Wendy Tucker, 41, of Northridge, Calif., and her mother, Tonia Wetterhahn, 67, of Chatsworth, Calif., work together in their family insurance agency, but often are too busy on the job to talk. They have participated in the Oaks at Ojai's mother-daughter spa program seven times since 1997.
 "At the spa, we're spending more quality time together," Ms. Tucker said. "It's quiet. We have more time to chat with each other, and we're also dealing with the same aches and pains from exercising."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Water aerobic exercise is one of the activities offered at Mii amo Spa in Sedona, Ariz. The spa is among those with lower rates in the off-season. (Photo by Pat Shannahan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); WEB SITES (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); TENNIS (67%); SPORTS (67%) Spas

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (91%); MARITZ INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Jane L Levere

GEOGRAPHIC: SEDONA, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



203 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2292 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Two Troubled Turnarounds 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
HOW does the Motor City spell desperation?
 P-A-N-T-I-E-S! 
 Or, more formally, "Lingerie Bowl 2004," a Super Bowl panty-party extravaganza, courtesy of the Chrysler Group's Dodge brand. It's a seven-on-seven football game featuring lingerie models, to be shown on pay-per-view during Super Bowl halftime. 
 Some vital statistics: The quarterback for "Team Dream" will be Nikki Ziering, a former model on "The Price Is Right" who has appeared in Playboy. Her counterpart on "Team Euphoria" will be Angie Everhart, a model and actress who is also a Playboy alum. Lawrence Taylor, the former linebacker whom Mike Wallace recently made cry on "60 Minutes," will serve as a coach, and Michael Buffer, the "Let's Get Ready to Rumble" guy, will serve as master of ceremonies. 
 As they say, desperate times require desperate measures. And the last few years have certainly been brutal for the Big Three automakers -- particularly for the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Group, a division of the German company DaimlerChrysler that includes the Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep brands. Most analysts see General Motors as the strongest of the group, with the most solid products and management team.
 Ford and Chrysler are each a few years into turnaround plans aimed at dragging their businesses out of the red and getting investors and consumers excited again. Beset by high incentive spending, shrinking market share and meager automotive profits, the two behemoths have been forced to impose drastic and demoralizing cost-cutting measures. Wall Street analysts have been pouring on doubt. And some competitors, especially Toyota, are in far better shape in terms of their products, financial health and manufacturing efficiencies. 
 Stock prices of both companies have taken a pounding in recent years, with Ford's down 60 percent and DaimlerChrysler's down 57 percent since the beginning of 1999. Analysts see DaimlerChrysler's drop as largely reflecting the sluggish performance of the Chrysler division. 
 Worse for DaimlerChrysler is the spectacle, five years after the "merger of equals" that joined DaimlerBenz and Chrysler, of current and former executives being forced to testify about the deal this month in a court in Wilmington, Del. The company has been sued by Kirk Kerkorian, the 86-year-old billionaire casino mogul who was Chrysler's largest shareholder. He charges that the deal was fraudulently presented as a merger, allowing the carmaker to forgo the typical premium paid in acquisitions. 
 The proceedings have led to a re-examination of the deal itself -- and have not lacked for rancor. "I will never enter settlement talks with DaimlerChrysler," Mr. Kerkorian said on the courthouse steps Wednesday, according to the Associated Press. He added: "This is not about money. This is about deceit and fraud."
 DESPITE their distractions, William Clay Ford Jr., the chairman and chief executive of Ford, and Dieter Zetsche, the chief executive of Chrysler, have said in recent weeks they are ready to go on the offensive once more and ride the coattails of new products coming in 2004. They say profits are just around the corner, the economy is improving, and so is the quality of their products. And both Ford and Daimler shares have recovered some of their value in the last eight months and hit 52-week highs this week. 
 Turning around a struggling corporation generally requires the modern chief executive to play the salesman, even when there's not much to sell. And Detroit is a virtual turnaround clinic because one of the Big Three always seems to be ailing. 
 Lee A. Iacocca, the former Chrysler chairman, personified the kind of zestful boosterism it took to keep a struggling automaker alive. Mr. Ford's uncle, Henry Ford II, took over a Ford Motor that was in dire shape after World War II. 
 Detroit rescue operations are slow to develop because auto production cycles cannot be turned on a dime. Also, it takes years of improving quality for customers to forget years of lagging quality, and the stellar reputation of Toyota and Honda in this area means their cars have significantly higher resale values. 
 Lately the bar of success has been raised by Carlos Ghosn, who seems to have waved a magic wand over the Nissan Motor Company. Mr. Ghosn, who became Nissan's chief executive in 1999, took over a company mired in debt, losses and aging products. Making his job more complicated was the fact that he was a Brazilian-born Frenchman of Lebanese descent taking over an insular Japanese icon. 
 But in four years, he eliminated the debt and revived the company's product lines and profit margins, and Nissan has become one of the industry's most dynamic companies. He has been embraced in Japan to the point that there is a comic book series depicting him as a virtual superhero. 
 Mr. Ghosn succeeded in balancing the two sometimes competing tenets of automotive turnarounds: whittling away at costs while beefing up products. 
 "Carlos Ghosn walked into Nissan in 1999 and managed to get the company's operating margins up to 11 percent," said Maryann Keller, a veteran auto analyst and a former executive at Priceline.com. "The execution should be easy if you take Nissan as a model."
 But the situations may not be directly comparable, said Domenic D. Martilotti, an analyst at Bear, Stearns. He said that what Mr. Ghosn had accomplished was "remarkable, but he's done the restructuring in Japan," where he could close plants without union opposition, among other things. 
 Certainly, for Mr. Ford and Mr. Zetsche, there is much at stake.
 For Mr. Ford, the turnaround is an intensely personal campaign to revive his great-grandfather's company. Two years into his turnaround plan, he has taken a muted approach and says he wants to let the products, and his performance, speak for themselves. 
 "That's the best way I know to be a salesman," he said in a recent interview. "To hit the numbers and deliver. I'll let others do the P.R. thing. I will be a salesman with our employees and, to the extent people think I can be effective, with the ratings agencies and Wall Street."
 For Mr. Zetsche, his future as a possible successor to Jurgen E. Schrempp, chairman of DaimlerChrysler -- whose position is more comparable to that of Mr. Ford -- is seen as riding on his results at the Chrysler Group. While overseeing his turnaround plan over the past three years, he has been highly visible, and he barnstormed the country last month to meet and greet more than 5,000 dealers and their employees. 
 "During the last five years, we have quietly been working on a complete transition of the Chrysler Group as a world-class competitor," Mr. Zetsche said at a media briefing last month, adding, "We have the right plan and the right team, and now we have the right product."
 Wall Street has yet to be convinced. 
 Last month, Standard & Poor's downgraded Ford Motor's credit rating to BBB-, which is one notch above a junk rating; the month before, it had downgraded DaimlerChrysler to BBB, citing Chrysler's lagging performance. 
 "Strong demand has not made for strong financial performance by these three automakers," wrote Scott Sprinzen, an analyst at S.&P.'s, in a report last month. "Robust industry demand has been partly a result of steep price discounts. Also, Ford and Chrysler have experienced material market-share erosion, meaning they have not gotten the full benefit of higher industry volume."
 FORD Motor and the Chrysler Group are not directly comparable because Chrysler is now a division of a large corporation, while Ford is a large corporation. Ford's brands include Ford, Lincoln and Mercury, as well as a suite of international luxury brands known as the Premier Automotive Group that includes Volvo, Jaguar, Aston Martin and Land Rover. 
 Nonetheless, Chrysler and Ford face a similar challenge, if on different scales, analysts say. Simply put, they are automakers that have not been making much, if any, money from selling automobiles. Both are heavily dependent on America's swelling appetite for sport utility vehicles and big pickups. Critics have said both automakers have lagged in product development in recent years, particularly in their car lines. 
 New products, including cars, are beginning to appear. But for Ford, nothing is more important than its recently redesigned F-Series pickup, which is the best-selling vehicle of any kind in the nation. Next fall, though, Ford will begin selling the first cars aimed at reviving a line that is now focused largely around the aging Taurus, including the Five Hundred sedan, the company's answer to European-style sedans like those from Volkswagen and Audi. 
 Chrysler has a bolder plan that will unfold next year: convincing Americans to start driving rear-wheel-drive cars again after being sold on front-wheel drive. The new Chrysler cars emphasize performance and have big engines and imposing grilles. One of these, the Chrysler 300C, will be "the new flagship of the Chrysler brand," Mr. Zetsche said. It will start around $25,000 and go from zero to 60 in 6.3 seconds. From Dodge will come the Magnum, a sort of tanklike station wagon.
 Ford is expected to return to profitability this year, but on the back of its financing unit. Chrysler had set a goal of breaking even this year but said recently that it may not meet this projection. 
 Each automaker also has its own particular issues. Ford is a global company but hasn't been making significant money overseas. The company's European business had operating losses of $1.2 billion through the first nine months of the year, and it is losing money in South America and Asia. The Premier group, seen as critical to the success of its turnaround plan, had a $56 million operating profit, a slight figure by industry standards but better than the $352 million loss in the period a year earlier. 
 The company is hardly blind to these issues. "In the past, the company was overly reliant on the profitability of S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks in the United States," said Donald Leclair, Ford's chief financial officer, in an interview.
 The company's plan, he said, is to hit a series of "singles and doubles" instead of relying on one home run. 
 The company has beaten Wall Street estimates for seven quarters, Mr. Ford said, and is meeting the goals it laid out in its five-year plan. 
 "One thing I've been very careful to do is under-promise and over-deliver," he said. "It's very easy to stand up and beat your chest and say we're going to do this and we're going to do that and look at us. And a lot of people do that. To me, I'd rather be able to look back with satisfaction and say, you know, we quietly said what we were doing and look what we delivered."
 Chrysler, alongwith its dependence on trucks, has the added challenge of having yet to make Daimler and Chrysler a profitable match. 
 Mr. Zetsche has been more than game to play the salesman. At the 2002 Detroit auto show, the industry's annual beauty pageant, Chrysler put on a mock stage version of "The Dick Van Dyke Show." In it, Mr. Zetsche played a nosy neighbor ostensibly seeking strudel but actually doling out car advice. 
 Last month, he made a boisterous appeal to dealers, employees and the news media to showcase the company's new product lineup for next year, which he said would be the first significant wave of new products during his tenure. At a media unveiling at Cobo Arena in downtown Detroit, he talked up eight new vehicles coming next year, including the Chrysler 300C and Dodge Magnum, as well as a longer version of the Jeep Wrangler, a convertible PT Cruiser and a redesigned Cherokee. 
 A video showed Mr. Zetsche's top deputy, chief operating officer Wolfgang Bernhard, racing Chrysler products against the Nascar driver Brendan Gaughan, whose driving skills seemed to fail him in Fords and BMWs. 
 "These new products represent a tremendous opportunity and we will seize it," Mr. Zetsche said, adding that after three years playing defense by cutting costs and improving quality and productivity, he finally had a stable of new vehicles: nine new or redesigned products next year and 25 over the next 36 months. 
 "I'm happy the three years is over and the wave is coming," he said. "We have a much better arsenal to go after revenues." 
 NEXT year will be particularly crucial for Mr. Zetsche; Chrysler is three years into his turnaround effort. 
 "You're taking a big leveraged bet on a new philosophy," said Mr. Martilotti of Bear, Stearns, referring to the rear-wheel drive cars. "If it falls on its face they might have to do some more restructuring."
 "Ford can do a dance in '04," he added. "The challenge for them is expectations are rising and they set the bar pretty low."
 Mr. Zetsche recently sacked his marketing chief, and the company has put Celine Dion, its briefly omnipresent spokeswoman, largely on ice after a bid to make Chrysler a more upmarket brand stalled.
 Now he appears ready to do anything and everything to move metal. That includes Lingerie Bowl 2004, which "will attract the Dodge brand's core demographic and provides us with the opportunity to showcase the products that will appeal to this audience," according to Julie Roehm, the Chrysler Group's new director of marketing communications. 
 But what about female buyers?
 "It's a strong male audience," said James Kenyon a spokesman for Chrysler, referring to the market for Dodge trucks and sports cars.
 "This kind of advertising is on the edge and is therefore likely to cause some unhappiness, and yet that's the risk you take when you're trying to reach an audience so many other competitors are trying to reach as well," he added. "It's a huge game and lots of people will be clamoring for attention. We think this is a way to get noticed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Clay Ford Jr. of Ford Motor, left, and Dieter Zetsche of the Chrysler Group. (Photo/Drawing by The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Skidding Automakers"Battered stock prices, falling market shares and high incentive spending have plagued two of the country's biggest car companies. Graph tracks stock prices of DaimlerChrysler and Ford Motor since 1999. Graph tracks share of U.S. sales for Ford Motor and Chrysler Group* since 1999. Graph tracks incentive per vehicle for Chrysler Group* and Ford Motor+ since 2001. *Excludes Mercedez-Benz. +Excludes Jaguar, Land Rover and Volvo. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Ward's AutoInfoBank; Autodata)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LINGERIE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MERGERS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); ATHLETES (76%); PAY PER VIEW (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); LITIGATION (64%) Automobiles; Sales

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO (F); DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; GENERAL MOTORS CORP (GM) ; Ford Motor Co; Daimler-Benz Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (50%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%) Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (51%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



204 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Bonuses! Bonuses!; 
New York Gets the Bounce Back in Its Step

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
THE menu featured everything from seared tuna on wonton chips to Parmesan twists. From the windows of Rockefeller Center, the employees of W. P. Carey & Company, a real-estate investment firm, looked down at Harry Connick Jr. and his orchestra performing in the plaza below. Children buzzed about. Glasses were filled and refilled. Finally, the 30,000 lights on the center's supersized Norway spruce were illuminated. A roar of cheers filled the room. 
 Yes, it was a party, in the epicenter of Manhattan, at one of the nation's foremost monuments to money, power and class. It was one of those classic real-surreal events that define New York, sort of like stepping inside a Hallmark card. 
 But Wednesday night's tree-lighting ceremony felt different -- at least compared with those of the last two years -- because a decidedly different mood infuses New York City this holiday season. 
The improving economic news is a big part of the change. New York City lost about 235,000 private-sector jobs from January 2001 to the middle of this year. In the months since, it has added about 12,000 jobs. 
According to the New York City comptroller, William C. Thompson, Jr., whose office released its latest economic survey last week, the city's recession is now over. "After 10 consecutive quarters of decline," Mr. Thompson said, "the city is showing clear signs of economic recovery." 
Wall Street is having a banner year -- after having experiencedsevere cutbacks during the recession. The securities industry expects to earn at least $16 billion -- just in profits -- which would be more than double last year's amount. This is especially important because while the securities industry makes up only 5.5 percent of the city's employment base, its workers earn 15 percent of the income. 
This year's bonuses will be way up. The average increase for investment bankers will be about 20 percent, according to estimates by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. But a spokesman for one major Wall Street investment bank, whose profits this year more than doubled, said bonuses will rise between 20 and 100 percent, meaning anywhere from $10,000 to $15 million for those receiving them.
Other, broader, influences may also be at work in lifting spirits this year. American forces are still at risk abroad. But the nation is not in the throes of a buildup for another war. And for many New Yorkers, the anguish and anxiety created by the Sept. 11 attacks have diminished with time. 
This has helped tourism to rebound. The sidewalks and streets don't just seem more crowded this year, but actually are, city officials say. Hotel occupancy rates are now back near pre-Sept. 11 highs.
On Wednesday, Mike Stengel, the general manager at the New York Marriott Marquis in Times Square, spent a few happy minutes on the hotel's ninth-floor balcony looking at four of the hotel's restaurants and bars. Almost every seat -- the combined outlets can serve in total about 1,000 people -- was filled. 
"Look at this place today," Mr. Stengel said. "It feels like it used to feel, like Christmas before 9/11."
The marble-columned banquet room at Cipriani 42nd Street near Grand Central is booked almost every night this month, with 1,500 expected for a Sony Music party, 1,000 at a gala for Pfizer and 700 guaranteed for a UBS investment bank cocktail party and dinner, said Louis Rose, the restaurant's managing director.
Still, the "masters of the universe" swagger of the 1980's and the "irrational exuberance" of the 1990's have not returned. Party organizers this year are more willing to add small extras to the $250-a-person standard charge, like sushi or dim sum, Mr. Rose said. But there are few takers for the $80-a-person Beluga caviar surcharge.
"It is not the free spending of the late 1990's, but it is creeping back up," Mr. Rose said. Already, he said, he has booked more business for the coming March than he did in March 2003.
Across Manhattan these days, one senses a hesitant relief that the worst may be over. "The Christmas after Sept. 11, it was just so sad," said Amber Eyerly, 27, an executive assistant at W. P. Carey, at the company's party last week. "Last year with the war pending, I was just angry. This year, really, I have hope."
Of course, not everyone is experiencing renewed prosperity. Unemployment in New York is still at 8.2 percent, the highest among the nation's 20 largest metropolitan areas.
Carol Mann, 39, who lives on the Upper West Side, has been unemployed since May, when Showtime laid her off from her job as director of business development research. Despite all the headlines about a rebounding economy, she continues only to get polite rejections. One media company told her recently that she was one of 2,000 people who applied for a single position.
"It is hard to get very excited when you are looking for a job every day," she said. "In fact, it is dreadful."
Still, it is not hard to find reason for at least guarded optimism around town. In the Chelsea area, more than a dozen clubs and bars have opened in the last year or so -- the biggest resurgence in city night life in at least a decade. At the Coral Room -- which features a 10,000-gallon fish tank in which bikini-clad women, posing as mermaids, glide amid the butterflyfish and French grunts -- at least some of the money culture of previous boom periods has re-emerged. There, and at several other new clubs, you are urged to order alcohol by the bottle if you sit at a table, and tabs can climb into the thousands.
It may be too soon to expect new spurts in sales of luxury cars or homes in the Hamptons. But if this keeps up -- and the city stays safe -- don't be surprised if you start hearing the tales of excess again sometime next year. This is New York, after all.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lighting up in New York: the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center last week, and the Martini Bar in 1996, when the city was feeling flush. With spirits lifting and tourism rebounding, is the city feeling flush again? (Photo by Frances Roberts); (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); RECESSION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CHRISTMAS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); CITIES (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (66%); TERRORISM (62%); HIJACKING (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Social Conditions and Trends; Geographic Profiles; Economic Conditions and Trends; Christmas; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: W P CAREY INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%)

TICKER: WPC (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (91%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: Eric Lipton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



205 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 he New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: L.I.@WORK 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Warren Strugatch; E-mail: libiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Lifetime Hoan Corp. Buys Gemco Ware of Hauppauge
 The Lifetime Hoan Corporation (Nasdaq: LCUT), a housewares marketer based in Westbury, said Tuesday that it had acquired Gemco Ware of Hauppauge, a manufacturer of glass food-storage containers. 
 Gemco makes oil and vinegar cruets, sugar dispensers, salt and pepper shakers and related products. The company, founded in 1948, filed for protection from its creditors last month under Chapter 7 of the federal bankruptcy law.
 Gemco has about $14 million in sales annually, said Jeffrey Siegel, Lifetime Hoan's chairman and chief executive. He said the acquisition was made for less than $10 million, but he would not be more specific.

Nasdaq Warns BioSpecifics
 The BioSpecifics Technologies Corporation (Nasdaq: BSTC) of Lynbrook reported late last month that Nasdaq officials had warned the company that it would lose the right to trade on the market if it did not appoint a third independent director to its board. 
 The company has asked for a 90-day grace period to make the appointment. Earlier this year, the company received a similar letter, warning it to file its financial reports on time or face delisting.

Netsmart Subsidiary Contract
 Netsmart Technologies (Nasdaq: NTST) of Islip said Tuesday that its subsidiary, Creative Socio-Medics of Islip, had been awarded a contract by the State of Nevada's division of children and family services for office management software and technical support. The contract is worth $900,000, the company said.

Executives Are More Confident
 Executives in Nassau and Suffolk are more confident about the local economy than they were at this time last year, the annual Long Island Economic Survey and Opinion Poll has found. The poll was conducted by Dowling College's School of Business and Albrecht, Viggiano, Zureck & Company, an accounting firm in Hauppauge.
 Respondents rated their confidence in the local economy at 6.7 on a scale of 1 to 10, up slightly from 6.3 last year. Nine out of 10 said that the Dow Jones Industrial Average would continue to rise through June, and nearly 2 out of 3 expected that interest rates to increase. 
 About 400 executives completed the poll in October, out of 6,000 who were sent questionnaires. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DELISTINGS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); GLASS MFG (77%); PRESSED & BLOWN GLASSWARE MFG (77%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BOARD CHANGES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); FAMILY SERVICES (70%); FAMILY (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (69%); CONTRACT AWARDS (66%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (66%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CHILD WELFARE (50%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: LIFETIME BRANDS INC (97%); BIOSPECIFICS TECHNOLOGIES CORP (83%); CREATIVE SOCIO-MEDICS CORP (55%); NETSMART TECHNOLOGIES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Gemco Ware; Lifetime Hoan Corp

TICKER: LCUT (NASDAQ) (97%); BSTC (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3469 METAL STAMPINGS, NEC (97%); SIC3421 CUTLERY (97%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%) SIC5072 HARDWARE; SIC3229 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS; 

PERSON: Warren Strugatch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



206 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 7678 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Is 

BYLINE:  By Barry Bearak; Barry Bearak is a staff writer for the magazine. His last article was about starvation in Africa.

 BODY:
Maulana Azam Tariq's assassins were of the thorough sort, firing 30 or 40 bullets into their victim, aiming especially at the head and neck. The Sunni cleric died along with his driver and three bodyguards, murdered near a tollbooth in a high-security area of Islamabad, the rich, spacious and usually sedate capital of a poor, crowded and deeply tumultuous country: Pakistan.
 Azam Tariq was considered an extreme man even in a nation abundant with extremists. Often accused of ordering the deaths of innocent Shiites, he made his home in Jhang, a robust city in the vast plains of central Punjab. It is a relatively prosperous area, with an occasional tractor to share beastly burdens with the water buffalo. But the greatest portion of the wealth remains with feudal landlords, most of whom are Shiites. Resentment of these landlords helped provoke years of spasmodic sectarian violence. This reciprocal bloodshed joined the other centrifugal forces that always seem to be flinging Pakistan toward bedlam: the religious fanaticism, the ethnic separatism, the political corruption, the four military takeovers, the three wars with India, the two wars in Afghanistan, the inconstant friendship of America. 
 As it happened, I interviewed Azam Tariq two days before he was gunned down. "Anyone will know how to find me," he had promised in lieu of directions. And indeed, people in Jhang confidently pointed the way through the curvy and narrow lanes of an old neighborhood, where an automobile seemed a clumsy machine amid motor scooters and donkey carts. Maulana is a term of respect for a scholar, one dutifully applied by Azam Tariq's thousands of followers. That morning, the maulana was busy at his small compound, encircled in his office by dozens of supplicants needing help with their unpaid bills and unresolved quarrels. A bespectacled man with a henna tint to his stiff beard, Azam Tariq, 41, was wearing a turban, its long tail hanging over the front of his white linen shalwar kameez. He sat patiently on the floor behind a cloth-covered table, his ministrations repeatedly disrupted by phone calls. Outside were young sentries with machine guns. A closed-circuit TV monitored the mosque across the street.
When Azam Tariq saw he had guests, he excused himself from the office and led my translator and me to a simply furnished guest room. An aide was sent to fetch bottles of 7Up and a plate of cookies. Then, unprompted by questions, the maulana began an enthusiastic self-defense, portraying himself as a reasonable man of virtuous restraint. Rather than killing Shiites, he said, they "should merely be declared non-Muslims" and jailed for 10 or 15 years. "We have never called for violence against anyone." 
These were lies, which was to be expected. Pakistan is a great hub of duplicity, and the maulana was just one of the many chameleon characters who seemed able to operate at both its center and fringe, something like the nation itself, which is one of America's essential allies in the war against terrorism and also one of terrorism's essential incubators in its war against the West. Each time I visit the country, I hope for some blossom of understanding but return with the wilt of confusion. This is a nation of confounding murkiness, where every kind of deception, collusion and outright sham are recurring motifs in the political theater. Rumors and conspiracy theories are as commonly exchanged as rupee notes, the information -- some of it even true -- then twisted, inflated and endlessly rearranged. Much of the trickery is institutionalized. The I.S.I. -- the shorthand name for the military intelligence agencies -- is widely presumed to be an expert puppet master, the great Oz of a manipulated society.
Rumors were the reason I wanted a word with the maulana. I'd heard that he had cut a deal with the military a year ago to spring himself from jail.
Since Pakistan's most recent military coup, in October 1999, the country has been run by Gen. Pervez Musharraf, an often brash former commando. From the first, he professed a devotion to democracy and a loathing for the nation's ample supply of knavish politicians. His deepest belief, however, seems to be in his own indispensability, and he has connived to hold on to power even after allowing national elections. His patriotic campaigns against corruption and extremism have most often given way to the more pressing priorities of mundane self-interest.
The case of Azam Tariq is but a single example. Two years ago, soon after 9/11, the general ordered the jailing of the maulana and several other incendiary mullahs. Months later, in one of his many rousing denunciations of radical Islam, Musharraf officially outlawed Azam Tariq's organization, Sipah-e-Sahaba (Warriors of the Prophet's Companions), saying Pakistanis were "fed up" with "fratricidal killings." 
But these pronouncements, however sincere, meant little in practice. Much like other banned groups, Sipah-e-Sahaba merely had to change its name to go on operating. In fact, when elections were finally held, Azam Tariq was able to win a seat in Parliament from his prison cell. Three weeks later, a court released him. Curiously enough, he then allied himself with the pro-Musharraf coalition in the Assembly, becoming one of many unlikely bedfellows in the governing majority, among them several legislators newly liberated from the distractions of lingering criminal cases.
"No, no, absolutely no deal was made," the maulana assured me, insisting that the timing of his release was purely a coincidence. Speaking in Punjabi, he swiftly changed the subject, preferring more familiar topics, like the many fruitless efforts by Shiite extremists to kill him. "I've had 11 attempts on my life, with knives, guns, bombs, even rocket launchers," he boasted, as if these brushes with death verified his importance in life.
As goodbyes were said, he embraced me in the traditional way, pulling me toward him so that our right shoulders touched. Then he apologized for not having provided a full meal. In amends, he ordered his brother to escort us to a restaurant called Kim's. "Best Chinese food in Jhang" was the last thing I heard the maulana say.

The Smoldering Fire
To be honest, Pakistan frightens me. Not the being there, despite recent attacks on foreigners, despite what happened to Daniel Pearl. I have visited Pakistan a few dozen times since 1998, most recently for five weeks this fall. Almost always I've found the people warm and generous and protective. Rather, what greatly alarms me is Pakistan as a potential meltdown, a nuclear power with too many combustibles in the national mix.
I am hardly alone in my fears -- and yet this nation rarely finds itself under the American magnifying glass. "Pakistan is an incredibly important country, but I don't think there's an awareness of that in the United States," Richard Haass told me. He had recently left the Bush administration as director of policy planning in the State Department and assumed the presidency of the Council on Foreign Relations. "If you'd ask most people what are the biggest issues in the world, they'd say the Middle East, Iraq, North Korea, perhaps Afghanistan, a long list. But not a lot of people would say Pakistan." He, too, has pondered the dangerous skein of possibilities. "Sure to be a nightmare is a breakdown in order. They haven't institutionalized succession in any meaningful way. At worst, you could have a loss of control over their nuclear weapons."
Pakistan has a population (150 million) larger than all but five nations and more nuclear warheads (perhaps 50) than all but six or seven. Since its establishment, it has been in want of a coherent national identity: some there sarcastically call it less a nation than a crowd. Born in 1947, it was awkwardly excised from the British Empire in two separate pieces, an east and a west that happened to be 800 miles apart, with the largely Hindu behemoth of India situated in between. This new nation was meant to be the Muslim homeland of the subcontinent, but the formal role of Islam was left ambiguous and has ever remained an issue. Religion alone proved insufficient glue. In 1971, Pakistan's eastern half went its own way after Bengali Muslims -- with India's assistance -- broke loose and created Bangladesh. Four contiguous provinces remain: Baluchistan, Punjab, the Northwest Frontier and Sindh. Significant numbers of the present citizenry feel their greater bond is to ethnicity -- be it Pashtun or Baluchi or Sindhi -- and would rather not be part of Pakistan at all. Also under Islamabad's control is Azad ("Free") Kashmir, one-third of a lovely Himalayan territory claimed by both the Indians and Pakistanis. The dispute is the main reason these neighbors continue to kill one another. 
Though the British are long gone, the Pakistanis themselves remain colonized by privation. About two-thirds of the population survives on less than $2 a day. Nearly two of every five children are undernourished. Only 44 percent of all adults can read (only 29 percent of the women). The mosques, rather than the government, provide what frayed social safety net there is. Perhaps that is because Pakistan is habitually broke. Barely 1 percent of the population pays income tax. More than half of the central budget goes toward the military and repayment of the national debt.
Politically, Pakistan has been reliably unsteady, with democracy only a sporadic presence. The military has controlled the country for about half its 56 years. No elected government has ever completed a full term, and even when one is in place, it stays there only at the pleasure of the generals. The army -- some 500,000 strong -- is commonly thought to be Pakistan's elite institution. The military doesn't just dominate civilian affairs; its various "welfare trusts" are among the nation's largest industrial conglomerates. The Fauji Foundation, linked to the army, has substantial ventures in gas fields, sugar mills, a fertilizer plant, an oil terminal and an overseas employment service. Its corn flakes and other breakfast cereals control 80 percent of the market. Profits supply ex-servicemen and their families the quality schools and health care that most Pakistanis so badly lack.
The great murkiness of Pakistan is largely the fault of this formidable army and the skulking I.S.I., which have pursued furtive alliances with many of the nation's most violent Islamic extremists. For more than a decade, the military has trained and financed civilian jihadis who cross into the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir to create havoc. This guerrilla combat was once an entirely indigenous Kashmiri rebellion against New Delhi, but the Pakistanis quickly hijacked it. Radical groups supplied much of the manpower, often enlisting students eager to enter paradise through the golden door of a martyr's death. The relentless havoc has time and again nudged the two new nuclear powers close to war. The alliance between the army and I.S.I. on one hand and extremists on the other has also led to a contorted set of cross-dependencies. Loyalties are now confused, and many Pakistanis wonder whether fundamentalist elements in the army's officer corps are more sympathetic to the jihadis than to their own superiors.
Musharraf's own dedication to the Kashmir cause is indisputable. In early 1999, just months into his tenure as army chief, he ordered the paramilitary forces of the Northern Light Infantry across the agreed cease-fire line. When the troops were finally discovered, the Pakistanis claimed they were mujahedeen acting on their own, a feeble story belied when the bodies of dead soldiers began to be returned to their families. The Indians responded to the encroachment with air power, giant howitzers and thousands of troops. This semi-war ended only after Nawaz Sharif, then Pakistan's prime minister, made a desperate July 4 trip to Washington seeking diplomatic intervention by President Clinton. In a retelling of the episode, Bruce Riedel, a special assistant at the White House, wrote that there had been "disturbing evidence that the Pakistanis were preparing their nuclear arsenals for possible deployment."
Musharraf has since assured the world that Pakistan is a responsible custodian of its nuclear arsenal. Still, pressures for one-upmanship with India are immense. According to American officials, Pakistan began swapping vital nuclear secrets with North Korea in exchange for ballistic missiles in the late 1990's. The dealings apparently continued after Musharraf's coup, but by the time they were disclosed last year, Islamabad was already a front-line warrior against Al Qaeda. The Bush administration responded tepidly, imposing sanctions on a single Pakistani nuclear laboratory.
In the past 25 years, American policy toward Pakistan has largely been devised to fit the events happening next door, in Afghanistan. Immediately after Sept. 11, Washington reinvigorated a waning friendship with Islamabad, employing President Bush's with-us-or-against-us ultimatum. The Pakistanis were ordered to forsake their Taliban associates, avail air bases to American troops and join in the hunt for terrorists. In many ways, Musharraf was pleased to comply. He had been treated warily in the West. Intimacy with America would come with generous military aid, forgiven debt and a new role for him, that of a reputable statesman.
There was precedent for Musharraf's abrupt rehabilitation. An earlier Pakistani ruler, Gen. Zia ul-Haq, hanged his civilian predecessor, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, and imposed a punitive version of Islam especially harsh on women. And yet however much Zia had fallen into bad odor, the air was freshened by his strategic usefulness after the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979. Throughout the 80's, jihad was a word to be embraced, not abhorred, in Washington. The United States employed Pakistan as the conduit for billions of dollars in arms to the Afghan resistance. The I.S.I., tutored in artifice by the C.I.A. itself, thrived in the role of middleman benefactor to the many mujahedeen groups.
Surely, the defeat of the Soviet Union was beneficial for the United States, but American policy lacked a fuller vision for the region. By 1989, when the Soviets finally fled their misadventure, Pakistan was awash with weapons, the inevitable leakage from the gushing pipeline. It was also an increasingly cordial locale for the heroes of radical Islam, the thousands of Pakistanis who fought in the jihad as well as the many "Afghan Arabs" from around the world who, like Osama bin Laden, had come to battle the infidels.
With the Soviets vanquished, they would begin to look for new enemies.

Making Democracy Safe for Musharraf
One evening in Islamabad, I decided to visit a session of the National Assembly, where the same scene had been repeating itself for months. Once the session was called to order, members of the opposition rose from their soft leather chairs and began pounding notebooks and tubes of paper on the curved tables before them. A ritual chant accompanied this arrhythmic drumbeat: "Go, Musharraf, go! No, L.F.O., no!" After about five minutes of this noise, the defiant legislators walked out, leaving pro-Musharraf lawmakers behind in a half-empty chamber.
The main grievance was the Legal Framework Order -- the L.F.O. -- Musharraf's unilateral redrawing of the Constitution. He has bestowed upon himself the power to appoint Supreme Court justices and military chiefs, dissolve the Parliament and fire the prime minister. In other words, officials -- whether elected or otherwise -- were free to perform their duties so long as the general did not disapprove of how they did it.
After the 1999 coup, Musharraf promised his countrymen a "true democracy," a way of governance he found hard to define though he openly supposed it would require his continuing guidance. Much the same had been pledged by the three previous military rulers, but the public was again keen for a fresh start, and the coup was widely cheered. Pakistanis had soured on Nawaz Sharif, an opulently wealthy industrialist whose greatest passions were food, cricket, fast cars and then more food.
Musharraf, on the other hand, presented himself as a man who would countenance no corruption. People from some of Pakistan's leading families were arrested on fraud charges without regard to their political connections. The general demanded that bank loans be repaid, a bothersome innovation for many of the rich.
I spent time with Musharraf during these early days. He is a forceful man who expresses himself with such common sense and seeming candor that it is hard to imagine a word being untrue. He favors declarations like "It's high time we face facts!" And yet for most Pakistanis, the general has been a disappointment. Anticorruption campaigns gave way, once again, to political vendettas. Farouk Adam Khan had been chief prosecutor during the initial period of crusading. One Sunday night, I found him in his law office, sitting under the dim light of a single desk lamp. "Pervez Musharraf had a great opportunity," he said, "but he lost it in the pursuit of power."
The general learned the ins and outs of politics, best defined as how to keep the outs from getting in. In May 2000, the Supreme Court validated his coup. This occurred after the 13 justices were ordered to sign a loyalty oath to the new regime -- and the 6 who refused had been replaced. The court then recovered some of its dignity by setting an October 2002 deadline for parliamentary elections. At the time, Musharraf was referring to himself as Pakistan's "chief executive," though the title of president later became his preference. He won a five-year term at the job in a national referendum with only his name on the ballot and a simple choice of "yes" or "no." The reported tally showed 98 percent in the affirmative, a vote considered implausible by most observers -- even if no campaigning against Musharraf had been allowed. Within months, the new president, swept along by his landslide, issued the Legal Framework Order.
The parliamentary elections posed some difficulties for Musharraf, but not insurmountable ones. To have a malleable National Assembly, he would need support from a political party. Pakistan had plenty of those, but the two main ones relied on the cult of personality -- and their esteemed personages had long been on the lam. In an odd secret deal, Nawaz Sharif, head of the Pakistan Muslim League, traded prison in his homeland for exile in Saudi Arabia. Benazir Bhutto, the daughter of the hanged Zulfikar, had herself twice been prime minister, inheriting the Pakistan People's Party. Educated at both Harvard and Oxford -- and charged with corruption by both Pakistan and Switzerland -- she now lived in both London and Dubai.
Neither Benazir Bhutto nor Sharif could have run again anyway. Musharraf had installed new rules for public office. Some were laudable, like reserving a quota of seats in Parliament for women. Others were quirky, moralistic or simply cunning. A college degree was required, disqualifying all but perhaps 4 percent of the population. Accused bank defaulters also could not run, nor could their relatives or business associates.
Yet however unusual these rules, it was their selective application that was most disturbing. In a detailed criticism of the election, observers from the European Union said the inconsistency was the "result of a government strategy, in certain cases through the enforcement of person-specific provisions." Politicians allying themselves with Musharraf were often givenways around legal obstacles, the report noted. A few of the more ambitiously recruited were then rewarded with posts in the cabinet.
As might be expected, many Pakistanis believe the I.S.I. was shoulder-deep in election mischief. Intelligence agents may well have intimidated more than a few. Stories of such threats are common if difficult to confirm. "They handcuffed me, put a black hood over my head, threw me in a car and put a blanket over me," Ahsan Iqbal told me. He was once responsible for economic planning under Nawaz Sharif and had refused to switch sides. "They took me to one of their safe houses." There, he said, he was entombed in darkness for 16 to 18 hours until the abductors pushed him back into the car and abandoned him in a remote area. "They were letting me know that if I misbehaved, something worse could happen."
With Benazir Bhutto absent, I instead visited her husband, Asif Ali Zardari, who once bore the unfortunate nickname Mr. 10 Percent, a reference to the money he supposedly took off the top while his wife ran the country. For the past eight years he has been in prison, and the only way to see him was during one of the hearings in his continuing legal saga. "Come here, right next to me," Zardari said affably. He was sitting in the side yard of a courthouse in Rawalpindi, relaxing under a tree. He pinched my arm and nodded to his left. "The I.S.I. is posted there. Better put away your tape recorder." I had been expecting the dashing man I had seen in photos, a playboy polo player known as much for his dalliances as for his marriage. Instead he appeared pasty and bloated, a fidgety guy in a wheelchair with back problems and diabetes. His eyeglasses hung on a band around his neck; his cane rested against a tree stump. During his first years of captivity, he was tortured, he said. He stuck out his tongue to show me a groove excavated from the center.
Our conversation rambled, and he was emphatic in denying any wrongdoing. He himself brought up the matter of a $180,000 diamond necklace his wife is said to have bought with dirty money. "She doesn't need more jewelry," he said, as many a husband would. And her family was wealthy. "Benazir has more jewelry than she can count." To him, their legal troubles were part of some conspiracy. "The world is not Camelot," he said, as if summarizing some philosophy's central truth.
An old air-conditioner was rattling in the background. When it unexpectedly stopped, Zardari sent a man into the courthouse to restart this camouflage of noise, again nodding warily toward the I.S.I. agents. "Musharraf is basically a wolf in sheep's clothing; he's playing footsy with the world," he said ruefully. But he seemed to envy the president more than dislike him. Musharraf had dumb luck on his side. "If it wasn't for 9/11, we would have won the election hands down. He couldn't have kept Benazir from coming back. He couldn't have changed all those laws."
He couldn't have kept Asif Zardari locked away.

The Mullahs Are Coming!
Even without Benazir, her party got slightly more total votes than the one loyal to Musharraf, but his side won the most individual seats in Parliament.
The biggest surprise, however, was the success of the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (M.M.A.), or United Action Forum, an odd coalition of six religious parties never before known for mutual harmony or strength at the polls. It won the third-largest block of seats. More stunningly, it did well enough in provincial races to control the assembly in the Northwest Frontier and become a major partner in a ruling coalition inBaluchistan. Government by "the mullahs" has long been a dreaded prospect by the vast majority of Pakistanis with less doctrinaire views, and the M.M.A.'s unexpected victories intensified fears that "Talibanization" was creeping its way across the land.
Seven months later, extremists -- shouting the all-purpose invocation "God is great!" -- inflamed those anxieties by marauding through the city of Peshawar. As police placidly looked on, the crowd confiscated CD's and tapes from stores and burned music and movies in a bonfire. They blackened the faces of women on billboards. In the meantime, politicians in the new government spoke of plans to not only enforce their version of Shariah law but also compel its obedience with patrols of religious constables.
Conspiracy theorists and others reacted to the M.M.A.'s election success with a frenzy of suspicion. They began to call the coalition the Military-Mullah Alliance, speculating that the wily Musharraf had backed the religious parties to scare the gullible Americans into meting out more aid. ("The mullahs are coming! The mullahs are coming!") To them, it seemed the M.M.A. had received an unfair leg up. Degrees from madrasas (religious schools) had been accepted to fulfill the educational requirement for candidates. On the ballots themselves, where each party was denoted by an emblem, the M.M.A. was granted the symbol of a book. In a mostly illiterate country, some people were then easily persuaded that their choice was to vote for or against the Holy Koran.
Before leaving Islamabad for Peshawar -- one center of religious extremism -- I discussed this hypothesis with a crafty political operator named Mushahid Hussain. He had been minister of information under Nawaz Sharif and endured 440 days of house arrest after the coup. But Hussain has a very agile mind, capable of elaborate spin moves. Once freed, he joined Musharraf's party and was now serving in Parliament's upper house. By his reckoning, the M.M.A.'s strong showing owed more to the other parties' disarray and the mullahs' savvy use of anti-Americanism. "India-bashing has been replaced by America-bashing," he said. We chatted for about an hour, but what I recall most was a friendly warning as I left his house. "Let me know if you want to talk anything over, but not on the phone," the former information minister told me. "Remember, all the phones are bugged."
Peshawar, capital of the Northwest Frontier, is just east of the winding canyons of the Khyber Pass and Afghanistan. The province is largely Pashtun. By custom, women are kept hidden away. When outdoors, they are usually secreted beneath the billowy cloth of a burka. Among most Pashtuns, sympathy remains high for the Taliban, if not as models of Islamic behavior, then at least as ethnic brethren. Religious bullying was nothing unusual in the city, and it was easy to find new instances. Musicians were no longer able to find work. "Now, even at weddings, some mullahs come up and say this is not allowed, this is against Islam," Sher Muhammad, an old man who plays the harmonium and drums, said with despair. "If I play my music to feed my family, does that mean I am not a Muslim?"
Such complaints aside, what seemed most remarkable to me was how little of any religious agenda the M.M.A. had put in effect. Inexperienced at government, the coalition partners were a disparate bunch. A few powerful mullahs wanted to flip the calendar back 1,400 years to the days of the Holy Prophet, but others were content enough with the present. Mufti Ghulam-ur-Rehman, the white-bearded man in charge of the Council for the Enforcement of Shariah, entertained visitors while sitting cross-legged on the floor, but there was a fax machine on the cabinet behind him. "It is a modern world," he said cheerily. "TV has become a necessity of life." 
Malik Zafar Azam, the M.M.A.'s minister of law, is a green-card holder who owns an Italian restaurant in Arlington, Va. "I'm a good chef of spaghetti and pizza," he claimed. He still goes back and forth to America, though not so often since the bank foreclosed on his Virginia townhouse. He recalled appearing on a Pakistani TV show: "They said to me, 'Oh, my God, you are the law minister; you're making all men wear beards and do all these things.' I said what the hell are you talking. I have no beard, and I wear short pants." 
There are Talibanizers at work, no doubt -- and more all the time. But the Taliban in Afghanistan was originally welcomed more as sheriffs than mullahs, their stern theocracy considered an antidote to plundering warlords and social chaos. Pakistan does not have the predicate of such pervasive lawlessness. Indeed, the M.M.A. may well have its hands full simply staying in power. As always, I heard rumor upon rumor, hard to fully believe, hard to fully discount. In one story, the I.S.I. was buying the nine votes needed to topple the religious coalition in the provincial assembly. This would provide a heavy hammer over the M.M.A., which has been stubbornly opposing Musharraf on the Legal Framework Order. The cost per politician was said to go as high as 10 million rupees, about $160,000. 
Talibanizers have other resistance to overcome. Fundamentalism provides a powerful pull, offering purpose to the otherwise ignored. But it is not the only magnetic force. Even in largely Pashtun Peshawar, the masses are being tugged in multiple directions, including toward modernity and the West. Internet cafes, which the Taliban would never have tolerated, are opening one after the other. Training in English is a chief selling point of private academies. Music and movies are sold openly. Pinups of Indian actresses are marketed side by side with those glorifying Osama bin Laden. More than 200 cable-TV operators are collecting a $4 monthly fee from tens of thousands of subscribers; even more people are stealing the service.
Other cleavages divide Pakistan. Water itself sunders the provinces as each one vies for the precious flow of the Indus. Human rights activists struggle against death sentences in blasphemy cases and laws that sometimes make a woman the guilty party in her own rape. In the chaotic megalopolis of Karachi, thousands of terrorist murders have taken place during the past decade, the mayhem caused by two warring political factions. While this feud is presently at an ebb, sectarian killings keep the quotient of disquietude high with a particularly senseless touch, the targeting of doctors. An estimated 70 are dead. "I was tipped off that I was No. 2 on a five-person list set for execution," Dr. Shafqat Hussain Abbassi told me. He is a Sunni, but the Hussain part of his name had caused him to be mistaken for a Shiite. For days, he desperately tried to get word to the proper terrorists. Finally, he reached a maulana with jurisdiction. "He apologized that they were mistaken."
Internal nationalisms have troubled the country from its first days. Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri is head of the Marris, one of the largest of the Baluchi tribes. His loyalty is to a greater Baluchi nation, not some British mapmaker's creation called Pakistan. Befitting his status as a nawab, or ruler, he lives in Quetta in a large compound with armed guards stationed at the gate. His hair is white, his beard neatly clipped. He gave his age as "well over 70," and he spoke the fine English of a well-educated man. His feelings about Islam were hardly reverent. "In our part of the world, a mullah is someone who washed the dead, not a job you'd much admire," he said with wry contempt. Neither has he much use for America, the "leading shareholder" in world imperialism, and wondered how a nation great enough to produce Noam Chomsky could also deliver George W. Bush.
His worst scorn, however, was reserved for Punjabis, the largest ethnic group in Pakistan and the dominant one in the army. He recalled fighting them over the years. In 1974, some 80,000 troops were deployed against a Baluchi insurgency. Even today, government forces are ambushed in the mountainous Marri lands east of Quetta. "Why must Punjab be in my destiny?" he asked. Destitute tribesmen would benefit from a road the government wants to build. But the purpose of development is merely to exploit his people's mineral resources, the nawab said disdainfully. "So we fight on with the pen, the mouth and the gun." He paused to scoff at the sad irony of the storied Baluchis being part of an artificial nation. "Religion is only one aspect of life. It's not enough for a country."

"You People Are Offensive"
Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan, is just 50 miles from the Afghanistan border. This city may once have been Baluchi, but now it is also very much Pashtun. One poor neighborhood of high walls and narrow lanes is even called Pashtunabad. Most of its residents are Afghan refugees, including many easily identifiable as Taliban by their turbans. Some are merely students. But others are soldiers, going back and forth to their homeland to fight against American troops and the Karzai government. Their favored means of transportation is the motorcycle. One rumor is that the bikes are furnished by the I.S.I. If true, this raises one of the more popular sets of questions. Has Musharraf approved it? Or do rogues in the intelligence services have their own foreign policy?
While wandering through Pashtunabad, I asked to enter a small, dark room where young Taliban men lived. They were suspicious of an American, but with customary Pashtun hospitality, a cushioned seat was offered and tea was poured into clear glasses half full with sugar. "We study in the madrasa," said Abdul Baqi, a 27-year-old who seemed the leader. I wanted to know if he was learning any subjects beyond Islamic teachings, and when he said yes, I asked him if he could name any planet besides earth or multiply five times seven. He could not, but he had a question of his own: "When will America be satisfied? When it kills every Muslim in the world?"
This question might just as well have come from a Pakistani. As I have fears about an unhinged Pakistan, Pakistanis have fears about a wanton America. The parallel apprehensions have much the same vocabulary: a nuclear power, prone to irrational behavior, too eager to go to war, a penchant toward duplicity.
Sometimes, there is even the part about religious extremism. "George Bush is a mullah; he is a fundamentalist, too," Abdul Hakim Baloch, a writer in Quetta, told me. "I don't know how history will treat the Americans, but you are committing one of the greatest crimes of all time. Bush thinks he must destroy Babylon as the verses of his Scripture tell him. But you cannot conquer the world based on superstitions."
As an American in Pakistan, I was on a lecture tour where Iwas the one being lectured. Some decisive juncture had been passed, and people were erupting with accusations. Whomever I saw, extremist or not, educated or not, they told me they had finally lost patience with America, which in their eyes had grown hateful toward Islam and hypocritical about democracy.
Aitzaz Ahsan, a prom-inent politician and lawyer, opposes Musharraf. "Here again is another dictator the Americans are willing to sit in their laps as if they have run into a long-lost loved one," he said in exasperation. "We are back to Square 1, except this time, while attempting to demolish the demonic mullahs that we created ourselves, we are actually fueling their responses on a much wider theater." That theater is Iraq -- and perhaps beyond. A common suspicion is that an unquenchable America is after territory, after oil, after blood. 
The sympathy that poured forth after 9/11 is spent. For many, the winning of two wars has turned American sorrow into vulgar triumphalism. "You people are offensive," I was told sternly by Salima Hashmi, one of Pakistan's leading artists. "I don't care who your enemy is. You don't kill two of his sons and then show them off on TV."
These were feelings I could understand. They were reasoned criticisms. I might disagree with some of the thinking, but it all fell within the arena of legitimate debate.
Much of what I heard, however, seemed to come from an inverted world, the axis spinning backward, all the essential story lines turned inside out. There is no polling data to cite, but it seems that most Pakistanis, including a great many of the college-educated, continue to believe that the World Trade Center was attacked as part of a Jewish conspiracy -- and perhaps one that involved high-level cooperation from the United States government.
"Who gained from these happenings?" I was asked by a 35-year-old man named Haroon. "Not Islam, not America, only the Jewish people." He demanded an investigation: Why had no Jews come to work at the World Trade Center that day? Why had Jewish businessmen withdrawn all their money from banks ?
There were multiple variations to this conspiracy theory, including a few that had Osama bin Laden acting as an Israeli hireling. When I responded with incredulity, I was pitied as a naif. Qazi Hussain Ahmad, the well-traveled, highly educated leader of Jamaat-e-Islami, Pakistan's largest religious party, even patted my hand. "This required a very sophisticated infrastructure," he said of the trade center attacks. Hadn't I read the analyses on the Internet, he wanted to know: the Arabs involved lacked "the capabilities to do all the planning" for such a complicated operation. He suspected Mossad, the Israeli intelligence agency. He thought they might have been assisted by the United States military.
Gen. Hamid Gul, the retired head of the I.S.I., tendered a similar theory. "The longest it would take for a U.S. Air Force aircraft to be on the tail of a hijacked plane is seven minutes," he told me, blaming collusion between the White House and "Zionist intellectuals" for the attack. He easily connected the dots. The same Zionists had recruited Monica Lewinsky, he said. "She keeps the dress for two years and doesn't talk about it?" He threw his head back in laughter. "The American people are so gullible!"

The Feudals and
The Ghost Schools
Most every village has a mosque. It is easy to happen upon the austere music of Muslim prayers. Harder to find are the chalkboard scratchings of an everyday school.
Pakistan's education system is a mess even by the sorry standards of South Asia. According to the World Bank, more than a third of the nation's 10-year-olds have never attended class. According to the United States Agency for International Development, Pakistani boys average less than two years of attendance, girls less than one. "Ghost schools" are a strange aspect of the problem. There are perhaps 10,000 of them: solid buildings, missing only the bodies and souls of teachers and students. Villagers often use the vacant classrooms to store grain and the courtyards to pen livestock.
Parents want their kids in school. If there were teachers, there would be students. But Pakistan's education budget as a percentage of gross domestic product is puny, according to a Unesco estimate, smaller than most of the Muslim world, smaller even than most of sub-Saharan Africa. And of those teachers who are paid, many simply fail to show up, relying on an inept bureaucracy to ignore their truancy. In a place called Masterano Kallai, I witnessed the reanimation of a ghost school. Some of the village's few literate men had volunteered to teach. Rooms were swept free of fodder and dung. A small blackboard was hung from a nail to the cement wall. More than 100 children arrived in the afternoon, some of them barefoot, many coming after a morning of hard lifting at a nearby brick kiln. 
Families with enough money send their children to private schools while many of the poor take advantage of the free education offered by the madrasas, some of which provide a reasonably full curriculum, and some of which provide only rote memorization of the Koran, and some of which provide the combatants for jihad. General Musharraf has repeatedly promised to reform the madrasas, requiring them to teach from an approved syllabus. But to do so would be an expensive, meddlesome task, and despite some boasts to the contrary, the government has yet to make even an approximate count of the madrasas, let alone change their lesson plans.
The want of schools reflects the want of democracy. However many ruptures there are in Pakistani society, the greatest gulf is that between the rich and poor, and the poor are easy to ignore in a nation controlled by generals and landlords.
Kaiser Bengali, a noted economist, told me that 4 percent of Pakistan's rural households own 50 percent of the land. "It is something like 16th-century feudalism," he said. In many farming areas, the biggest landowners are actually called "the feudals," and some are powerful enough to make their own laws and operate their own jails. In the cities, a feudal is more likely to be a thug who runs a land mafia, falsely staking claim to property and forcing people to pay rent. Karachi, one of the world's 10 biggest cities, has sprawling squatter settlements that far outstrip every electrical line, every sewer pipe, every water tap. I spent a morning in Ibrahim Hydri, a fishing village outside the city. Boats were returning from three days at sea, and the crew was shoveling out the storage bins of fast-aging shrimp and pomfret. A grim fisherman named Saleh Muhammed said sale of the catch would barely cover fuel costs and dock fees. His family lived in a hut of scrap wood and thatch. A "feudal" was threatening to burn him out unless he could come up with 3,000 rupees (about $50).
These were despairing days for small fishermen. Prices had plunged after the sea itself became tainted. On July 27, an oil tanker ran aground just outside Karachi's harbor and, after bewildered authorities allowed the cracked vessel to languish for 18 days, a massive rupture opened, disgorging 30,000 tons of crude. The fish kill was immense.
This oil spill was nearly as big as the Exxon Valdez incident in 1989 off the coast of Alaska. But with no terrorism angle, the event was mostly ignored by the foreign news media. As the oil washed onto Karachi's best-known beach, it sullied the marvelous vista of an affluent neighborhood's high-rise apartments. Three months later, when I stood on the shore, the hapless ship was still marooned, its bow at an odd angle like a broken bone. A top layer of oily sand had been scooped from the beach itself, but some of the spill had seeped a full 20 inches down. Waves were dumping more dirty water on the dirty beach.
Patches of foamy brown stained the sand where the sea rolled in. "Is that oil?" I asked Brian Dicks, a British expert, who was standing beside a backhoe.
"Oh, no," he answered, "That's raw sewage. Comes in streams from the big apartment buildings. Some people take care of their waste, some don't."
In this case, the sea's use as a latrine was actually an advantage, he explained. Nitrogen and phosphates from the sewage were helping break down the oil.

America's Great Ally
Pakistan is tough on prognosticators. Each time I am there, people tell me the place is about to spin apart. And yet for all the gyrations, it remains in one piece. Some would argue that despite its mischief, the military is the tie that binds. But the generals are also to blame for so much of what has set the country reeling in the first place.
Cynicism is a contagion in Pakistan. Musharraf is not only criticized for selling out to the Americans; he is also excoriated for selling out too cheaply. After all, this may be a limited window. Historically, the United States is all too forgiving when it needs Pakistan and then smugly reproachful when it does not.
Nevertheless, for now Pakistan is on the payroll. In June, George W. Bush proposed a $3 billion aid package to be dispensed over the next five years, half for military use, half for economic aid. He and Musharraf presented the news together in Camp David. The two presidents appeared pals that day, looking relaxed as they walked shoulder to shoulder. Bush said America has "had no better partner in our fight on terror than President Musharraf." Still, it is hard to imagine that these men altogether trust each other. Bush surely remembers that the general had befriended the Taliban until the day he was drafted into the war on terrorism. And Musharraf undoubtedly recalls that Pakistan's last military ruler, General Zia, met an untimely end in a plane crash. A good many Pakistanis again see a conspiring hand, supposing that the C.I.A. did away with an ally after his usefulness had run its course. 
Shaping American policy toward Pakistan requires a prolonged balancing act on a particularly high wire. Nuclear misbehavior must be discouraged, but economic sanctions would only push a volatile country toward bankruptcy and disintegration. Human rights should be stressed, but perhaps not if it keeps Al Qaeda suspects from being immediately handed over. Big infusions of economic aid are vital for development, but how can the money be kept from religious radicals and the hopelessly corrupt? A full return to democracy ought to be demanded, but past civilian governments have been kleptocracies. Sadly, no oasis is visible ahead. There is no obvious Mandela figure, no Walesa, no Havel waiting in the wings. There can be no Velvet Revolution to inspire the Pakistani masses. Between the Koran and the Kalashnikovs, too many people covet too many incompatible things.
But if elected governments have been disappointing, military ones have been disastrous. And the eventual bridge to cross is more than Musharraf. It is the army itself -- and its dominance, whether onstage or behind the scenes. Some way or another, Musharraf's time will pass. The great fear in the West has been that the next general will be much harder to deal with, someone with a long beard and no taste for whisky. But the greater likelihood is that after Musharraf simply comes another Musharraf, a slightly different model but still a man with the same loyalty to military pre-eminence. 
Idealists in the world believe there is no substitute for democracy. It may be hard work, but it must be tried, and if it fails, it must be tried again. The will of the people should not be forsaken for expedience, the body politic not sacrificed for Realpolitik.
Such sentiments have rarely been better expressed than in an eloquent address last month at the 20th anniversary of the National Endowment for Democracy. The main topic was democracy and Islam, and President Bush said, "The daily work of democracy itself is the path to progress." For emphasis, he repeated the thought with new phrasing. "It is the practice of democracy that makes a nation ready for democracy."
Bush singled out two recalcitrant Muslim allies: Saudi Arabia and Egypt.
Pakistan went unmentioned. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Quetta, Pakistan, at dawn. (Photograph by Kate Brooks); The funeral of the Sunni cleric Maulana Azam Tariq and four of his colleagues, assassinated in Islamabad in October. (Photograph by Muzammil Pasha/Visual News); Two sides of Lahore. Top: V.I.P. supporters of President Musharraf at a political rally.; Below: The poor, sleeping in the street. (Photographs by Yannis Kontos/Polaris; Below: Kate Brooks/Polaris, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (91%); SHOOTINGS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); POLITICS (67%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); MURDER (57%) Politics and Government; Terrorism; Geographic Profiles; Islam; United States International Relations; Education and Schools; Freedom and Human Rights; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (76%) Barry Bearak; George W (Pres) Bush; Pervez (Gen) Musharraf

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Pakistan; Pakistan; Pakistan; India; Kashmir and Jammu; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



207 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-7-03: ON LANGUAGE; 
Metrosexual

BYLINE:  By William Safire

 BODY:
'The promotion of metrosexuality was left to the men's style press," wrote Mark Simpson in the British newspaper The Independent in 1994, coining a term that has made a home for itself in the vocabulary of the new millennium. "They filled their magazines with images of narcissistic young men sporting fashionable clothes and accessories. And they persuaded other young men to study them with a mixture of envy and desire."
 Simpson titled his article "Here Come the Mirror Men," evoking Narcissus of Greek mythology, the young man who pined away staring at his image in a pool and was transformed into the pretty flower that bears his name. Last year, the coiner defined the term in its expanded form: "The typical metrosexual is a young man with money to spend, living in or within easy reach of a metropolis -- because that's where all the best shops, clubs, gyms and hairdressers are." (Metro is based on the Greek for "mother," as in "mother country," and polis means "city"; a metropolis is a chief city, though metropolitan now includes suburbs. End of tangent.) 
 Straight or gay? "He might be officially gay, straight or bisexual," Simpson writes, "but this is utterly immaterial, because he has clearly taken himself as his own love object and pleasure as his sexual preference. Particular professions, such as modeling, waiting tables, media, pop music and, nowadays, sport, seem to attract them."
The term has been embraced by at least one sports megastar. (A mere superstar is no longer a big deal, as top-billing inflation roars ahead; keep your eye on gigastar.) The celebrity most often associated with the word is David Beckham, captain of Britain's soccer team. The beloved "Becks" wears designer clothes off the field, has been seen in sarongs and nail polish and boasts a different hairstyle every week. He is proudly and indisputably a dandy, comfortable with what is called his "feminine side" (on the theory that each person's personality contains masculine and feminine characteristics).
Should a political figure interested in reaching out to every group identify himself with the word? Probably not.
Speaking at a breakfast in Boulder, Colo., Howard Dean recalled signing a civil-union bill when he was governor of Vermont and said, "A great many L.G.B.T. groups -- for those of you who are not initiated, that's shorthand for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender groups -- asked me to come speak all around the country." On one of those occasions, Dr. Dean was complimented on his appearance. "There's a term for that," he said. "It's called metrosexual."
A Denver Post reporter, Joey Bunch, put Dean's use of the word high in his coverage, which was picked up widely. However, the reporter noted, "then he waffled." The candidate quickly added a comment dissociating himself from knowledge of, or approval or disapproval of, the new narcissism: "I'm a square. I've heard the term, but I don't know what it means."

HAND IN THE TILL
 When identifying myself with disappointed Chicago Cubs supporters this fall, I reached back into baseball's linguistic history and trotted out the upbeat lament of old-time Brooklyn Dodger fans: "Wait'll next year." 
Jack Cushman, an editor here, poked his head into my office to say that he associated himself with the sentiment but would not have abbreviated it that way. But that was the way it sounded, I argued: the 'll stood for until. We reached for The New York Times Manual of Style and Usage on 'til: "Do not use except in quoting a written or printed source. But till" -- that's with no preceding apostrophe and with two l's -- "is largely interchangeable with until."
When shown to be mistaken, I demand a second opinion. The 15th edition of The Chicago Manual of Style (in its most complete revision in a generation and well worth the $55 investment) usually bails me out of such sinking sensations, but there was an admonition under the till entry: "This is a perfectly good preposition and conjunction. It is not a contraction of until and should not be written 'till."
Desperate for a permissiveness fix, I turned to Dr. Roundheels himself, E. Ward Gilman, in Merriam-Webster's indispensable Dictionary of English Usage. "What 'till is, unarguably," he argues with uncharacteristic certitude, "is a variant spelling of till used by writers who do not know that till is a complete, unabbreviated word in its own right." 
I thought it was an abbreviation for until. So, I suspect, did Theodore Dreiser, Ogden Nash and George Orwell, all users of wait'll, though they may have wanted only to reflect a spoken sound in written form with absolute accuracy. There is a clear difference in the sound of the title of the song "Wait Till the Sun Shines, Nellie" and the transcription of an embarrassed mother's admonition, "Wait'll I get you home," or in my writing of what I heard in Ebbets Field as "Wait'll next year." But that apostrophe is a mistake as painful as a charley horse.
And where, asks Rachel Javit, an Israeli who lives in West Hartford, Conn., does that name of a muscle contraction come from?
It's an old baseball term. H.L. Mencken, in Supplement II of The American Language, wrote that Charley Esper, a lefty pitcher for the Baltimore Orioles, was so called "because he walked like a lame horse."
However, with the use of modern databases (who steals a database?), the philologist Sam Clements tracks an Aug. 29,1886, usage in the baseball pages of The Atlanta Constitution: "Sullivan, of Charleston, has the Charley Horse in his head." (That may have been the first migraine.) The growling etymologist Barry Popik found another baseball use in a Sporting Life dated a month later: "Joe Quinn is troubled with 'Charley-horse."' Quinn, the first Australian-born major leaguer, played for the St. Louis Cardinals and wound up managing, charley horse and all, the Cleveland Indians. 
Till we meet again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (87%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); CLASSICS (76%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (71%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (66%); SOCCER (62%); MYTHOLOGY (55%); POP & ROCK (50%) English Language; Men

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (73%) William Safire

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



208 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Imports Don't Deserve All That Blame

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH struck a blow for free trade last week by repealing his own tariffs on imported steel. But make no mistake about it: protectionist pressures still run high in Washington.
 Mr. Bush's decision to repeal the special steel tariffs stemmed less from belief in open competition than from the fact that the World Trade Organization had declared them illegal and the European Union was about to retaliate with $2.2 billion in tariffs on American exports. 
 Meanwhile, the Bush administration continues to insist that China reduce its huge trade surplus with the United States. Mr. Bush meets here on Tuesday with Wen Jiabao, China's prime minister.
 In recent weeks, the Commerce Department has moved to slap import quotas on selected Chinese textiles and tariffs on television sets, and it is considering restrictions on bedroom furniture. At the same time, the government is pressuring China to let its currency rise against the dollar, a move that would make Chinese imports more expensive in the United States. 
 Given all this saber-rattling, it is useful to take a closer look at the actual impact that imports -- especially from China -- have had on American manufacturing. 
 By any measure, imports of Chinese manufactured goods to the United States have exploded, to an estimated $146 billion this year from $68 billion in 1998.
 But imports explain only a small part of the woes of American manufacturers. Manufacturing companies have eliminated 2.7 million jobs, or about 16 percent of their work force, since June 2000, according to Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist at the Manufacturers Alliance, a research group. 
 The real source of distress was domestic: a three-year plunge in business investment and rapidly rising American productivity that makes it possible to churn out more goods with fewer people.
 Imports of manufactured goods actually dropped to $900 billion in 2001 from $962 billion in 2000, and stood at $923 billion in 2002, according to data from the International Trade Commission. This year, as businesses has finally started to spend again, imports may hit $970 billion -- only marginally higher than three years earlier.
 The long-term issue is productivity, which has been climbing about 5 percent a year since the late 1990's and surged at a stunning annualized rate of 9.4 percent in the third quarter of this year. 
 Higher productivity is the main reason industrial production has risen sharply over the last three decades even as the number of industrial jobs has declined.
 Edward Gresser, director of trade policy at the Progressive Policy Institute, which is affiliated with the Democratic Party, estimated that only 30 percent of the recent loss in manufacturing jobs stemmed from foreign trade pressures, while about 40 percent resulted from higher productivity and 30 percent from the slow economy.
 American manufacturing is far from dead. Though output remains below the peaks reached in 2000, the long-term trend has been and will continue to be up.
 But not across the board. As has been the case for years, American industry must focus on areas that capitalize on new technology, designs and marketing flair. "We have to create our own competitive advantage," Mr. Gresser said. Lego building blocks, for example, are still produced in Denmark and Italy still exports pricey shoes.
 Mr. Meckstroth, speaking from an industry perspective, had only a slightly different interpretation. "The problem, in my opinion, is not imports," he said. "The problem is the inability to export. We are buying goods from abroad, giving the rest of the world our dollars, but these dollars are not coming back to this country to buy our products."
 That leads directly to the main complaint from American manufacturers about China: that the Chinese yuan and other Asian currencies are drastically undervalued, giving products from these nations a big cost advantage. But regardless of exchange rates, Chinese labor and land costs are a tiny fraction of those in the United States. 
 OF greater concern is the danger of a spiral in new trade restrictions. It was no coincidence that the dollar dropped noticeably against the euro after the administration announced import quotas on Chinese knitted fabrics, dressing gowns, robes and bras. 
 Analysts say investors fear the move could be the start of a protectionist slide that would lead to higher prices and slower growth. "The market realizes the net positive effect of trade with China," said Lara Rhame, a senior economist at Brown Brothers Harriman. "There is a concern that a trade disruption will turn into a financial market disruption."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Growing Share" Graph tracks total number of manufactured imports and manufactured imports from China from 1998 through estimated 2003. (Source by International Trade Commission)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); TRENDS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); STATISTICS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); LABOR FORCE (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%) International Trade and World Market; United States Economy; Productivity; Labor; Advertising and Marketing; Science and Technology

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); WEN JIABAO (55%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



209 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Counting Down; 
Pension Troubles = S.&L. Collapse? Some Say Bank on It

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
IN 1985, a financial consultant named Alan Greenspan was hired to write an opinion letter on behalf of a fast-growing California savings and loan association. The future Fed chairman praised the institution's managers for building it up "to a vibrant and healthy state, with a strong net worth position."
 As it turned out, the institution, Lincoln Savings and Loan, was taken over by the government in 1989 at a cost to taxpayers of about $3.4 billion. 
 The collapse of the savings and loan industry in the late 1980's is being evoked more and more to describe the possible dangers ahead for ailing pension funds. If even the sharp-eyed Alan Greenspan can fail to spot an S.&L. crisis in the making, what can be said about the way Washington is handling the $1.6 trillion in retirement money? 
Many business executives say the similarities are exaggerated. But a group of academics and a few officials are paying heed as they seek the best way to secure the pensions of some 44 million Americans.
A hearing of the Senate Committee on Aging in October dealt specifically with the comparisons. The Treasury Secretary, John W. Snow, has mused publicly about whether history is repeating itself.
"When you think about pensions, we've got a brewing problem here that has some -- I don't want to overstate here -- but has some analogy to the savings and loan crisis of some years back," he told The Wall Street Journal last summer. "You've got a lot of accounting rules; you've got a mismatch of liabilities and assets; and you've got moral hazard." 
The key in the 1980's, say experts who are making the comparison, was an overriding impulse to overlook warning signs -- to assume that a sick industry will get better if only given time and a little regulatory relief. The S.&L. system didn't melt down until 1989, but its troubles started more than a decade earlier. Years of inaction in between made the eventual bailout worse.
Now it is pension funds that are showing signs of trouble. The law requires that companies set aside enough money to pay the pensions they promise, but at the moment there doesn't seem to be enough. If employers were forced to pay every penny, right now, their funds would be more than $350 billion short.
That doesn't mean a $350 billion bailout -- or any bailout -- is looming. But the numbers suggest that if the pension system melted down, taxpayers could be on the hook for tens or hundreds of billions of dollars.
Companies say the danger is all but nonexistent. Pension funds, after all, do not work like banks and are not generally susceptible to runs. They typically pay out benefits over many decades, not one day to the next. The glacial pace of the pension world, companies say, means today's shortfalls will be recoverable in years to come.
But those who see parallels argue that the population is aging, and warn that companies -- especially those with older workers -- risk running out of time to cover their shortfalls. To these analysts, the slow pace at which pensions are paid serves only to obscure the risk. 
Now, many companies are running into a law requiring employers with big pension deficits to speed up their contributions sharply. These payments can be huge, and executives aren't eager to pony up. 
Why, they ask, demand strict compliance with the rules when the pension sector has just survived an excruciating downturn, the economy is strengthening and pension plans seem poised to recover on their own?
Rather than cracking down, they say, the government should ease the rules. Both the House and the Senate this week are to finish work on a pension-relief bill. One measure would give companies a two- or three-year break on the special, accelerated contributions.
Another would let companies use a new method to calculate the pensions they owe -- a method that would make the total amounts look smaller, reducing the amount companies must set aside today.
This approach takes economists like Zvi Bodie back to the early 1980's, when the savings and loan associations had alarming shortfalls, and Congress eased the rules.
"It's so striking, the similarity," said Professor Bodie, a Boston University professor of finance and economics who has written of the lessons of the S.&L. crisis for the pension system.
Hundreds of savings and loans became insolvent after interest rates rose sharply in the late 1970's. The government closed some of the sickest ones, using the S.&L. insurance program to compensate depositors.
But the closures were costly and politically unpopular, recalled George J. Benston, an Emory University economics and finance professor. They added to the federal deficit, he said, and angered the U.S. League of Savings Associations, which ratcheted up its political contributions and lobbying.
As a result, hundreds of stumbling savings and loans were allowed to stay open, and even encouraged to grow, Professor Benston said. Regulators lowered their capital requirements, and let them puff up what little capital they had with accounting gimmicks. Meanwhile, Congress granted them the freedom to get into new lines of business. They ventured into new. speculative deals: real estate, venture capital, even junk bonds.
Today, said Professor Bodie, it is pension funds that are making unorthodox investments, trying to recoup stock-market losses by adding hedge funds, private equity and other risky vehicles to their portfolios.
For the savings and loans, the strategy backfired when their investments soured. And because the Savings and loans had been encouraged to expand before they failed, their losses were much bigger than if the regulators had simply closed them in the first place. Analysts now estimate the total cost at $150 billion to $200 billion.
The presence of federal deposit insurance prolonged the crisis, economists say. Depositors stayed cheerfully put, knowing the government would make them whole if an S.&L. failed.
Today, the existence of government pension insurance may be encouraging risky behavior by companies and their pension managers, said Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College.
"Heads they've won, tails the government loses," she said.
The agency that insures pensions, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, is now technically insolvent, having taken over a number of large bankrupt pension plans in recent years. It owes retirees more, over time, than it has the money to pay. Unlike the S.&L. guarantor, it has many years to make all the payments it owes. But at some point, it will have to tap new resources. 
No one can say when -- or which resources. Congress has the power to raise the premiums that the agency charges companies. But so far Congress has shown no interest in doing so.
This may turn out to be another echo of the past, Professor Benston said. The hopelessness of the S.&L. situation was clear by 1988, he said, but Congress staved off any announcement of the taxpayer bailout until 1989. By then, the presidential election was over.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sometimes it takes a village to save an S.&L., as George Bailey learned in Bedford Falls. Sometimes it takes a taxpayer bailout, as many S.&L.'s learned in the 1980's. Will pension funds need to be saved, too? (Photo by RKO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS & LOANS (94%); BANK FAILURES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); TRENDS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); AGING (52%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Savings and Loan Associations; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%) Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



210 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Political Points 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY; Jim Rutenberg, Michael Slackman and Edward Wyatt contributed reporting to this column.

 BODY:
The General Is Fully Armed
 THEY may not be of much help in the Democratic primaries, but Gen. Wesley K. Clark has a formidable array of weapons for attacking some Republican strongholds next fall. 
 "I've got 20 guns," General Clark said in a campaign swing in Wisconsin. He went on to cheerfully describe his personal arsenal, which includes a German Luger that a relative "picked off out of the trenches" in World War I. "I've got a good couple of shotguns, a couple of high-powered rifles, an old .22 automatic rifle that I bought when I was a kid, a .22 automatic pistol that my father had. You know, I've got a whole bunch of things." 
The eight other Democratic candidates can't compete with that firepower. Senator John Kerry is an expert pheasant hunter, but he said he has just a couple of shotguns, and the rest said they're unarmed (although Senator John Edwards owned a shotgun in his youthful waterfowl-hunting days). 
Like the other Democrats, General Clark espouses gun control, which is popular with the party's primary voters but has been problematic for Democrats in general elections. Although a majority of Americans typically favor gun control, the ones whoactually base their vote on that issue tend to be the minority who own guns and oppose restrictions. Indeed, owning a gun is one of the best predictors that a person will vote Republican. But maybe some owners will reconsider if they hear about General Clark's collection. 

The Moderator Has Misgivings
THE Democratic debate Tuesday co-sponsored by ABC News should give the candidates their biggest audience yet -- as many as five million viewers, more than twice the size of the audiences for previous debates on cable networks. But not even the moderator expects great television. To prepare for his role, Ted Koppel of ABC spent Friday afternoon reviewing the Democrats' last debate.
"Man," he said during a welcome break, "are my eyes glazing over."
Mr. Koppel said he would try to make this debate more interesting, but was not sure he could overcome the format. He said he would have preferred a slugfest among the six leading candidates, but the Democratic Party and the candidates insisted on devoting half of the 90 minutes to structured questions -- and on including all nine candidates.
"You can't have a debate among nine people," Mr. Koppel said. "There is no such thing. It's called a food fight."

Don't Cruise, Don't Tell?
WHEN some Republicans heard about Representative Tom DeLay's plan to house delegates on a chartered cruise ship during their convention in New York, the plan was abandoned for fear of reinforcing Republicans' image as staid suburbanites aloof from the city. But if they'd stuck with Mr. DeLay's plan to charter the Norwegian Dawn, they might have ended up with a different image in tabloid headlines: GRAND OLD PARTY ON GAY CRUISE SHIP.
Mr. DeLay, whose party's relation with gay voters has been awkward at best, happened to pick a ship with a great reputation among gays and lesbians. Rosie O'Donnell and her partner, Kelli Carpenter O'Donnell, have a travel company, R. Family Vacations, that has chartered the entire Norwegian Dawn next summer for what the company advertises as "the very first gay and lesbian family cruise" with "our very own special brand of gay and lesbian family-friendly fun." 
The ship is also a favorite of Atlantis Events, a gay and lesbian tour company based in Hollywood that has advertised its trips with a different kind of marketing: "Three of the best gay D.J.'s spinning today will keep you dancing until the sun comes up." The company's president, Rich Campbell, said he was ready to help Mr. DeLay and his delegates dance the night away.
"I thought of calling Tom's office," he said, "and saying: 'I'm with a gay cruise company. Let me tell you why this is such a wonderful ship. I'd be happy to provide entertainment and consulting service.' " 

Following Rumsfeld Into the Unknown
WHATEVER his other rhetorical sins, did Donald H. Rumsfeld really deserve to defeat Arnold Schwarzenegger for this year's Foot in Mouth award?
After all, the California governor is the one who said, "I think that gay marriage is something that should be between a man and a woman." But the Plain English Campaign, the British group that awards the Foot in Mouth to a "truly baffling comment" by a public figure, announced last week that Mr. Schwarzenegger's comment narrowly lost to a statement by the defense secretary during a briefing on Iraq: 
"Reports that say that something hasn't happened are always interesting to me, because as we know, there are known knowns; there are things we know we know. We also know there are known unknowns; that is to say we know there are some things we do not know. But there are also unknown unknowns -- the ones we don't know we don't know." 
Granted, it's a tongue-twister. But unlike Mr. Schwarzenegger's comment, it makes perfect sense. In fact, the problem of "unknown unknowns" has been studied by economists, who call it "radical uncertainty" and say it prevents consumers and businesses from making purely rational decisions. 
"As much as I would rather not defend Mr. Rumsfeld, the distinction is quite important," said Mario J. Rizzo of New York University, one of the authors of "The Economics of Time and Ignorance." 
"For example," Mr. Rizzo continued, "I know that I do not know Rumsfeld's home telephone number. On the other hand, I may arrive in a foreign country and be completely unaware that there are books or directories available that will tell me where to find other English speakers." As a result of this uncertainty, this poor tourist doesn't where to search for those English speakers -- or how long it's worthwhile to keep searching.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stephen Savage) Chart: "On the News"At this point in the campaign, the presidential race has received less network news coverage than any of the previous four, with only 74 minutes of coverage on the ABC, CBS and NBC weekday nightly newscasts combined. MINUTES OF COVERAGE -- For the 13-week period from Labor Day to Thanksgiving one year before the election 1988: 2141992: 791996: 1362000: 1282004: 74 (Source by Tyndall Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); FIREARMS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); SPORT HUNTING (77%); WORLD WAR I (71%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (68%); BIRDS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); CRUISES (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Firearms; Gun Control ; Election Issues; Debating; Conventions, National (US); English Language; Presidential Election of 2004; Ships and Shipping; Cruises; Homosexuality; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: plain english campaign (orgn)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); JOHN F TIERNEY (78%) Wesley K (Gen) (Ret) Clark; Ted Koppel; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



211 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: DONORS; 
Funds for Iraq Are Far Short Of Pledges, Figures Show

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
Six weeks after organizers of an international donors conference in Madrid said that more than $3 billion in grants had been pledged to help Iraq with immediate needs, a new World Bank tally verifies grants of only $685 million for 2004.
 The vast gap seems to have occurred largely for two reasons: some countries, like Japan, changed the nature of their commitment after the conference from immediate aid to slower, long-term help; and some that had left their intentions unclear were incorrectly assumed to be giving immediate aid. 
 Many experts also say that donation pledges often do not materialize in the end, or come in the harder-to-tally form of credits for the purchase of commodities. 
The grant money for immediate needs was part of a total $13 billion that organizers said was raised at the conference. 
The Bush administration does not dispute the gap, but officials say it is too early for an accurate count, asserting that the number of grants will probably grow. 
Some United Nations officials concur. "We know the Japanese are rethinking what they're going to do," said Julia Taft, director of the Bureau of Crisis Prevention and Recovery at the United Nations Development Fund. "But once we get our trust funds up and running, about 15 donors will come forward. It's like, the money is in the bank, but the bank doesn't exist yet."
An independent trust fund was promised at the Madrid conference and is due to be set up next week.
Aid officials acknowledge that it is not yet clear how much money will end up going to Iraq outside the American contribution of $18.7 billion in the next year. 
The World Bank's new calculation is that of the total pledged for Iraq, $3.7 billion would be in grants and the rest in loans. But those totals are for the period ending in 2007. 
The Bush administration had hoped that the bulk of the aid would be available immediately. But there have been delays with loan money, too. International law allows only a sovereign government to incur debt, legal experts say. Current plans call for a transfer of power to an Iraqi government by the middle of next year, and there are some fears that that schedule might be optimistic. In addition, those plans were not announced until Nov. 15, several weeks after the Madrid conference.
The largest portion of the loans pledged in Iraq were from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. But aid experts say the monetary fund loans, at least, will not be available until Iraq's debt restructuring is worked out.
On Friday, President Bush appointed former Secretary of State James A. Baker III to lead the effort to renegotiate Iraq's debt, estimated at $100 billion to $120 billion. Iraq also owes $100 billion in reparations. 
Some aid officials suggested that it was not only practical reasons that caused the gap. 
"Some of it has to do with people's budget cycles, and their reluctance to make long-term commitments," saidan aid official. But he said there had also been an effort by the United States and other organizers to make the Madrid total look as big as possible without concern for specifics. 
The World Bank's new tally of aid was released without publicity on the bank's Web site on Thursday night. A press release accompanying the material stated that Madrid had totaled $32 billion, and that $22 billion was in the form of grants. But this included the American grants. 
The more specific breakdowns showing the $685 million for next year were contained in a chart accompanying the press release on the Web site, but the bank did not call attention to it.
In the case of Japan, a promise of large upfront cash grants shifted to the possibility of spending the money over several years. "The Japanese were looking at $1.5 billion in Madrid, but now they've decided to leave it unspecified as to which year the money is coming," an administration official said. 
Saudi Arabia pledged $1.5 billion in Madrid but left unclear what form it would take; it turned out that half was to be in credits to import goods from Saudi Arabia. 
Some countries similarly changed plans because of growing concerns about the political stability and the security of Iraq; some say they will donate money once the trust fund is set up; some, intent on seeing a greater United Nations role in Iraq, are reluctant to make grants during the American-led occupation. 
"The problem with cash is that you don't know where it's going to end up," said an official with a donor country. "Who gets to draw this money down? The only contracts awarded for Iraq so far have been awarded by the Pentagon." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%) Foreign Aid 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (92%); SPAIN (92%) Iraq; Japan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



212 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Legislature Rejects Schwarzenegger Plans 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger was dealt a political setback on Friday when the Legislature rejected his proposal for borrowing money and limiting spending to address the state's fiscal crisis.
 Now the Republican governor is vowing to go over the Democrat-dominated Legislature and take his plan to voters. 
 Senators voted 34 to 0 against the governor's plan to cap spending. Mr. Schwarzenegger's $15 billion bond measure also lost, with only five lawmakers, all Democrats, voting for it. The Assembly failed to approve any proposal and adjourned minutes before a midnight deadline.
The Legislature's inability to come up with two-thirds majorities for either proposal by the deadline means the plans will not be on the spring primary ballot, as Mr. Schwarzenegger wanted.
When it became clear that the governor's plan would not pass late on Friday, his spokesman, Rob Stutzman, said Mr. Schwarzenegger would put a spending limit on the November ballot, although he remained silent on the question of a bond measure. 
"As he said he would do, he will go over the heads of the Legislature," Mr. Stutzman said. "The governor defined them as overspending addicts during the campaign, and as overspending addicts they've showed themselves as unable to reform."
The setback came after Mr. Schwarzenegger spent the week barnstorming across California and chatting on talk radio to generate voter enthusiasm for his proposals to help reduce an expected deficit of $10 billion next year. 
State Senate leader John Burton said Mr. Schwarzenegger should have spent more time in the Capitol negotiating with lawmakers instead of flying across the state.
Mr. Stutzman refused to characterize Mr. Schwarzenegger's rallies as a poor political choice.
"It prepares the public to understand why he's coming back to them and asking them to participate," Mr. Stutzman said. "There continues to be a disconnect between the people sent to this building and the people out there who the governor obviously connects with. The leadership hasn't plugged into it."
On Saturday, political consultants from both parties said it might be months before a clear winner could be declared.
"To get the Legislature to approve a spending cap and the bond measure in that short of time frame would have been an extraordinary victory," said Dan Schnur, a Republican strategist. "We all know now that this is going to be a longer and harder fight."
Kam Kuwata, a consultant whose Democratic clients include United States Senator Dianne Feinstein, said it would be dangerous to read too much into the vote on Friday night.
"This is going to be played out over the next several months," Mr. Kuwata said. "It's not something that you can really take a snapshot and see clear winners and losers."
Mr. Schwarzenegger, he said, still needs to work with Democrats as well as Republicans to accomplish his agenda, and the failure of his budget package does not mean that compromise is impossible.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California spoke on Friday at a rally for his economic recovery plan. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BONDS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BALLOTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%) Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Government Bonds; Referendums

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%) Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) California

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



213 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: With Record Rise in Foreign Aid Comes Change in How It Is Monitored 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
With Congress set to increase foreign development aid to the world's poorest nations by nearly $2 billion, President Bush is overseeing the biggest increase in development assistance since 1962 -- the year after President John F. Kennedy created the Peace Corps and the Alliance for Progress in South America. 
 With most of that money aimed at combating H.I.V. and AIDS and creating a new development program, Africa would be the main beneficiary of this latest expansion in foreign aid. 
 In a turnaround that caught even Democrats by surprise, Republican lawmakers followed Mr. Bush's lead and agreed to nearly double the amount ofaid money going to Africa. The expansion appeals to domestic constituents like the Christian right and to foreign allies who have complained for years that the United States has been far too stingy with its foreign aid budget. 
"This is a very big moment for H.I.V./AIDS and foreign aid," said Stephen Morrison, director of the the Africa Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a State Department official under President Bill Clinton.
"No one would have predicted that the United States would be putting out this money for AIDS and foreign development," he said.
Under President Kennedy, foreign aid for the poorest countries jumped by $4 billion, to $12.5 billion in 1962. This year Congress will add $2 billion, bringing the budget to $8.6 billion, according to figures from the Congressional Research Service, making it the largest increase in developmental and civilian foreign aid programs in four decades.
The impetus behind Mr. Bush's new aid programs has been the fear of global terrorism after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks as well as the looming shadow of the AIDS pandemic.
In his 2002 National Security Strategy, Mr. Bush warned against allowing Africa to become impoverished and a home to terrorists. 
With strong urgings from Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, Condoleezza Rice, the president's national security adviser, and the Irish rock star Bono, Mr. Bush used his State of the Union address this year to announce an increase in financing for combating H.I.V. and AIDS by $15 billion over the next five years.
At a conference last year in Monterrey, Mexico, he promised to increase America's foreign aid budget by 15 percent a year -- or $5 billion over three years, the first real expansion in more than a decade. 
But Republican lawmakers had to be convinced that new aid money would not be misspent by corrupt foreign governments.
So the administration sidestepped the normal route of giving the money to the United States Agency for International Development and, instead, created a new program called the Millennium Challenge Account, which requires poor nations to meet criteria of good government to receive aid. 
Joshua Bolten, the director of the Office of Management and Budget and the president's former deputy chief of staff, helped develop the new aid strategy.
Mr. Bolten said the president was willing to put $10 billion over three years into a new development program because of this "sea change in how foreign aid is targeted."
"Money will now be given to countries that have shown a willingness to establish an environment where foreign aid will be most effective," Mr. Bolten said in an interview on Wednesday. 
Patrick Cronin, a former assistant administrator at the Agency for International Development, who helped create the new programs, said this approach was necessary.
"This really was like Nixon going to China because Republicans have always been the most skeptical about foreign aid," said Mr. Cronin.
But experts worry that adding yet another new agency to the number of aid groups already giving out federal money overseas could create confusion and inefficiency. 
Lael Brainard, a scholar at the Brookings Institution and a member of the National Economic Council under President Clinton, said it could also undermine established agencies like the development agency. 
"This is a terrible blow to U.S.A.I.D., a vote of no confidence in how they are giving out aid," said Ms. Brainard.
Bono, the lead singer for U2 who lent his name and reputation to the White House in order to promote these changes, had grumbled in September that the administration and Congress were slow at handing out the money promised earlier by Mr. Bush.
But now that Congress has agreed on $1 billion for the new aid program and $2.4 billion for AIDS, he came to Washington this week to praise the Republican-led Congress and Mr. Bush for keeping their word to nearly double the amount of aid flowing to Africa.
With Congress in recess, the final approval for the spending measures could come as early as next week. However, it is unclear whether the Senate will vote on any legislation until January.
With accountability being the most prominent feature of his new aid programs, said a senior administration official, the president called in prominent lawmakers for help in convincing Congress that foreign aid would not be lost to corruption or incompetence and would bring measurable results. "It's not just a question of putting more money into fighting AIDS but that we come up with a way to really turn the tide on this disease," said the official.
The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, made that argument when he led a delegation of six Republican senators to southern Africa in August. "They saw a number of effective organizations that were truly making a difference and recognized the importance of more funding," said Nick Smith, a spokesman for Dr. Frist.
But it has taken the administration 20 months to draw up the outline for this new development agency. Even if the money were passed next week, the administration has yet to set up the Millennium Challenge Corporation to run the programs.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A headline on Dec. 7 about the Bush administration's $2 billion increase in foreign development aid referred incorrectly in some copies to the intended use. Half of the increase is to fight poverty around the world; $600 million is to help fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria in Africa. The increase is not "mostly" to fight AIDS in Africa.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers at Cotlands, a South African organization that cares for children with AIDS, laid flowers at the funeral last month of 11 babies who died of the disease. The Bush administration's new foreign-aid budget proposals would provide more money to combat H.I.V. and AIDS in Africa. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); AIDS & HIV (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AIDS POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); ETHICS (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); POLITICS (73%); EPIDEMICS (71%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Foreign Aid; Politics and Government; Ethics; United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); PEACE CORPS (58%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (54%) Agency for International Development

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%); BONO (50%) Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



214 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: President Both; 
Bush Can Have Both Guns and Butter, At Least for Now

BYLINE:  By NIALL FERGUSON; Niall Ferguson is a professor of financial history at the Stern School of Business at New York University. His new book, "Colossus: The Price of American Empire," will be published next spring.

 BODY:
GUNS or butter: this is the choice historians conventionally say that governments face. Either they can build up their military capabilities to wield power abroad, or they can aim to increase their citizens' living standards. 
 In "The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers," the Yale historian Paul M. Kennedy developed this zero-sum model into a sophisticated theory of how empires work. In essence, you need wealth to be able to fight your rivals, but if you devote too much money to war, your wealth tends to stagnate. That's because (according to the theory) investment in the arms industry is less conducive to long-term economic growth than investment in sectors that ultimately satisfy some kind of consumer demand. 
 A simpler version of this idea suggests a trade-off between military spending and personal consumption. "Guns" are paid for by raising taxes, and this leaves people with less money to spend on "butter." 
The Bush administration is currently engaged in an audacious -- some would say reckless -- experiment to disprove this theory. To judge by his actions, President Bush's response to the question "Guns or butter?" is: "Thanks, I'll take both." This, in short, is the guns and butter presidency.
It's generally a safe assumption that, in politics as in life, you can't have it both ways. But there are exceptions -- provided you get the timing right. Today's economic circumstances mean that, in the short run, the administration can actually afford to spend billions simultaneously on conquest and on consumption. 
In the long run, this double or nothing strategy has dangers -- but, as Keynes remarked, in the long run we are all dead. All Mr. Bush needs to stand a good chance of re-election is 12 more months of guns and butter. In short, President Bush's second term depends on his being President Both.
Many a government has been impaled on the horns of the guns and butter issue. In the runup to Thanksgiving, however, two measures symbolized the Bush administration's conviction that it can grab those horns and take a ride. The first was approval of a $401 billion military appropriations package for next year, the biggest ever. The second was Congress's approval of a Medicare overhaul that increases the spiraling costs of the system by adding a drug prescription benefit.
But these are only two parts of a wider guns and butter policy. Consider the administration's commitment to spend $87 billion on the reconstruction of Iraq and Afghanistan. That comes on top of the initial military costs of "regime change" in both countries. Plainly, some costs of Iraq's recovery will be borne by other foreign donors and by sales of Iraq's oil. Nonetheless, no one seriously believes these other sources will cover the entire costs of "nation building."
Moreover, these costs are coinciding with increasing American donations to helpful countries. Aid to Jordan, for example, has soared from an annual average of $225 million over the past five years to $1.5 billion this year. After decades of decline in relation to gross domestic product, the combined economic and military budget looks set to rise in relative terms under President Bush. Yet this is the same president who pushed through three big tax cuts.
To critics of the White House, the rapid shift of the federal budget from surplus to deficit is a sign of profligacy -- part of what they would call the Enronization of public finance. It is true that there are real constraints on how much the administration can have of both guns and butter. Yet these constraints may prove to be weaker (or, to be precise, further away in time) than Mr. Bush's critics anticipate.
First, recall that the United States has broken the guns or butter rule before. Under President Ronald Reagan, substantial increases in military spending coincided with comparable increases, relative to gross domestic product, in personal consumption -- that proportion of G.D.P. that the public, as opposed to the government, spends.
From 1979 to 1986, military spending leaped from 4.6 percent of G.D.P. to 6.2 percent, while personal consumption rose from 62 percent to 65 percent. Nor was this unprecedented. From 1965 to 1968, Lyndon B. Johnson managed to combine the guns needed to fight the Vietnam War with the butter of the Great Society -- not to mention the ballooning consumer society.
The crucial point, of course, is that in the short term at least, fiscal policy is not a zero-sum game: a government can easily increase military spending without reducing consumer demand if it finances the higher spending by borrowing rather than taxation (and provided taxpayers do not view borrowing as future taxation and reduce consumption in anticipation). 
The downside is that such debt-financed fiscal policies led to inflation in the past . In the late 1960's and in the late 1980's, deficits were partly financed by printing dollars, which ultimately led to higher prices.
The good news for Mr. Bush is that this is unlikely to happen now. After all, he inherited an economy on the brink of a deflationary crisis. The bursting of the market bubble of the late 1990's posed a threat to the American economy comparable to the crash of 1929 and -- with the wrong policies -- the bust might have been as big.
Unlike Herbert Hoover, however, Mr. Bush did not respond to the crisis with spending cuts and tax increases -- quite the reverse. The tax cuts of his presidency may not have been especially well aimed to lift consumption, but they have had at least some countercyclical impact. Plainly, the lessons of the Great Depression have been learned not just in the Federal Reserve (which responded with swift cuts in interest rates). They were also learned in the Oval Office. That's why the downturn of 2001 was so shallow and short.
It is true, as former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and others like to point out, that President Bush has been greatly helped by the surpluses he inherited from the Clinton administration. From 1995 to 2000 the gross federal debt declined as proportion of gross domestic product, from 66 percent to 57 percent -- a manageable burden compared with those of countries like Italy, Belgium or Japan, all of which have total national debts in excess of 100 percent of G.D.P. Those who panicked about the debt under President Reagan failed to see how manageable it was. It's even more manageable today.
Even more important, falling interest rates have drastically lowered the cost of servicing the federal debt. Back in 1995, interest accounted for $232 billion a year -- more than 3 percent of G.D.P. Last year the figure was down to $178 billion, just 1.7 percent of G.D.P.
All this means that the Bush administration has considerable fiscal room for maneuver. The deficit (the excess of this year's spending over taxation) may have gone up. But the Congressional Budget Office forecasts that the federal debt (all the government's accumulated borrowings) will actually decline relative to G.D.P. in the years 2005 to 2013. 
The catch is that these and other official projections omit the federal government's implicit liabilities -- not its official debt, financed by selling bonds, but the gap between the anticipated costs and the anticipated revenues of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. One recent estimate put this fiscal imbalance as high as $45 trillion -- seven times the size of the official debt. The most important effect of the Medicare overhaul is to make that mind-altering number even bigger.
An interesting question is why this fiscal black hole is not causing more alarm for financial markets, because history suggests that a government with debts on this scale sooner or later either defaults or resorts to printing money, thus re-igniting inflation. Long-term interest rates have indeed ticked up slightly since their nadir last spring, in anticipation of higher inflation. But this will not be the kind of inflation experienced in the 1970's and 1980's. So powerful are the deflationary forces today (notably in the second and third biggest economies, Japan and Germany) that Washington can splurge on its military and social services with only a modest impact on expectations of inflation.
It helps that the United States has a unique advantage over all other sovereign borrowers: central banks and other institutions around the world need to hold dollars as the currency most frequently used in international transactions. While this is true, America can count on selling large amounts of dollar assets, like 10-year Treasury bonds, to foreigners -- very large amounts. In the last three years, the share of federal debt in foreign hands has risen from just over a third to almost a half. In particular, China has invested heavily in the dollar. Since 2001 Chinese international reserves have roughly doubled, from $200 billion to $400 billion.
The only imminent danger is that the dollar could slide sharply against Asian currencies, as it has against the euro. But the chief losers then would be the Asians. 
Part of President Bush's appeal to many Americans is that he combines a moral certainty about ends with a ruthlessness about means. To achieve these ends, the president has no compunction about exploiting the nation's fiscal and monetary strengths -- to the max.
No question, the policy of having both guns and butter postpones difficult decisions about the future of the welfare system, principally Medicare and Social Security. But it also ensures the continuation of the nation's "full spectrum dominance" in warfare.
Yes, all that military spending may not be enough to stabilize Iraq or prevent terrorism. All those tax cuts may not generate a sustained recovery. Still, if President Bush had turned out to be President Bust, his chances of re-election would have been much lower than they currently are as President Both.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by MK Mabry) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ARMS TRADE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSUMPTION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); POLITICS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); MEDICARE (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (60%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Taxation; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Niall Ferguson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



215 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Unconventional Approach: During Holidays, Seek Work 

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS

 BODY:
When Michelle Lemay embarked on a search for a new job in Manhattan last December, she expected to get a frosty reception from potential employers. "I thought looking for a job during the holidays would be challenging," said Ms. Lemay, a commercial litigator who had just moved back to Manhattan after living in Denver for 10 months.
 Instead, she had barely rung in the New Year when she found herself fielding calls from several law firms. In late January, she accepted a position as an associate at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, a large international firm with offices in Manhattan. 
 While the period between Thanksgiving and New Year's Day is largely considered one of the toughest times of the year to find a new position, career experts say that in many ways it is often one of the best. 
"The notion that job searching is tough going during the holidays is a huge myth," said Richard Bayer, economist and chief operating officer of the Five O'Clock Club, a career coaching and outplacement firm based in New York.
December is a good time to look for a job, Mr. Bayer said, because many other people are not. "Most job seekers think, 'I'm just going to kick up my heels and wait until the first of the year,"' he said, "so half of your competition drops out of the race."
At the same time that fewer people are looking for employment, many companies are getting a head start on January hiring, said Jeff Taylor, founder and chief executive of Monster, which operates the Monster.com Web site for job seekers and employers. Since many companies have new budgets that begin Jan. 1, Mr. Taylor said, "the more proactive" human resource managers begin looking in November and December to fill new positions.
Indeed, for the last three years, more employers have listed jobs on Monster.com in January than any other month of the year, according to Mr. Taylor. He estimates that annually, postings by employers jump by at least 15 percent from December to January.
In industries where workers are likely to receive end-of-year bonuses, like investment banking and law, there are even fewer candidates out looking for employment during the holidays, career experts say. Mark Arrow, president of Conduit Recruiting, a Manhattan-based search firm for lawyers, says he often urges job seekers to take advantage of the reduced competition during the holiday season. 
In the first quarter of each year, Conduit typically has about 25 percent more open positions to fill than it does during the rest of the year, Mr. Arrow said. "It's the basic law of supply and demand," he said.
Another benefit of holiday job hunting is that employers may be more accessible, said David R. Carpe, a principal of Clew, a human resources consulting firm based in Lexington, Mass., who also runs a networking group for job seekers on Yahoo.
Mr. Carpe said he typically recommended that job seekers bypass a company's human resources department during the week between Christmas and New Year's Day and try to reach executives directly. "Nobody has any deadlines to meet on Dec. 24 or Dec. 31," he said. "If an executive is in the office, he is doing menial stuff like cleaning up his desk," and is probably more amenable to talking.
Rick Junius, executive vice president for western operations at Lee Hecht Harrison, an outplacement firm based in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., said many decision makers "may take the time to conduct an informational interview, even if they don't have a position available, because they're feeling cheerful."
Gordon Macomber, the chief executive of Merriam-Webster Inc., the dictionary publishing company, landed his position during last year's holiday season. He said he believed that one reason he bonded so easily with the company's top officials was the nature of the interviewing process.
Mr. Macomber, who had been president and chief executive of NYUonline, which is now defunct, was to have a final interview with Merriam-Webster's chairman just a few days before Christmas. Instead of meeting in the executive's office, Mr. Macomber said, the chairman suggested that they take what turned out to be a two-hour stroll through the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
"He was in a festive mood, and so the interviewing process was a lot more casual," Mr. Macomber said. "I think it really helped us to get to know each other better." A few weeks after that final interview, Mr. Macomber received a job offer from the company, and started his new job in February.
There are some challenges to conducting a job search during the holidays.
For example, some executives who make hiring decisions may be on vacation, or may seem distracted during the interview process, said Sunny Bates, chief executive and president of Sunny Bates Associates, an executive search firm in New York that specializes in the media, technology and entertainment industries. Ms. Bates said she had negotiated deals between candidates and corporate recruiters while sitting in a room in Florida packed with her family members, who had gotten together for the holidays.
Waiting for an answer on a job may take longer, too, Ms. Bates said. "If a company tells you they'll let you know in 10 days, it might actually take 20," she said. "It's just because it's busy and everyone's running around everywhere. It's no reflection on you."
Ms. Lemay, the lawyer, said she initially fretted when some of the law firms where she interviewed just before Christmas did not follow up with her right away. Then, around the New Year, "my phone started ringing off the hook," she said.
Not all job seekers are in the right frame of mind to search for employment during the holidays. One Manhattan marketing executive looking for work said she was too depressed to try right now. "I'm worried about maxing out my credit cards because I don't have money to buy Christmas presents," said the executive, who has been out of work since September. "I'm sort of an emotional mess."
But, Mr. Taylor said, putting off a search until January can hurt. 
"Finding new employment is a biggie on the New Year's resolution list," he said. "So if you wait until Jan. 1 to start looking, you go from being in a distinctly noncompetitive landscape, to being in the busiest hiring time of the year."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michelle Lemay, an associate at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, says that December and early January was a fruitful time for her to look for a job last year. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); COMMERCIAL LAW (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); THANKSGIVING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); LAWYERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Christmas

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (91%); ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Monster.com 

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: Michelle Lemay; Melinda Ligos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



216 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Getting a Refund After the Scandal: Gauging the Odds

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
IF the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, has his way, investors will receive tens of millions of dollars in refunds from mutual fund managers who allowed improper trading in their funds.
 But it's too early to say what that will mean for individual shareholders. How much money an investor held in a fund and for how long will be factors in determining the size of eventual payouts, experts said. 
 There is still a big difference between what Mr. Spitzer says is a fair way of reimbursing shareholders and what some of the fund companies have proposed. Mr. Spitzer says that all of the management fees earned by fund companies during periods of improper trading should be returned to investors. "The money should go back to the original shareholders for whom the fiduciary duty was breached," Mr. Spitzer said recently. 
 At the moment, though, companies like Janus Capital and Bank of America have promised to return only the management fees on the fund shares that were improperly traded, a much smaller sum that could wind up representing just pennies to the average investor. 
 Mr. Spitzer made his intentions clear on Nov. 20 in a suit against Gary L. Pilgrim and Harold J. Baxter, founders of the PBHG funds. He demanded that the men and their company return more than $250 million -- all the management fees they earned in the several years in which they allowed improper trading in the PBHG funds. And last week, in a suit against Invesco Funds Group, the attorney general sought the return of $161 million in management fees earned over two years.
 The fees that the attorney general wants to extract are subject to litigation, but some managers may yield to his demands to avoid a battle.
 Mr. Spitzer's approach has raised eyebrows. "We're really starting to talk about big bucks, and that will hurt" the fund executives, said Kathryn McGrath, a lawyer with Crowell & Moring and a former director of mutual fund regulation at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 Of course, for individual shareholders, these sums could end up as small amounts after they are divided among hundreds of investors, particularly those who may have owned a fund for just part of the period of wrongdoing or who have since sold their investments in the fund. 
 Take the Invesco Dynamics fund, which, according to Mr. Spitzer and the S.E.C., was heavily used by frequent traders, in violation of limits in its prospectus. Russel Kinnel, the director of fund research at Morningstar Inc., suggested a way of calculating possible payouts for investors under Mr. Spitzer's principles. The fund charges investors 0.46 percent a year in management fees. An investor with $10,000 in the fund for a year may get $46 in restitution from the fund company, assuming the fund was held for the entire year.
 Many lawyers say that it will be time-consuming and expensive for funds to track down all shareholders and to determine the extent of their losses. Bank of America, for example, has said it will return money to the fund itself, which would mean that only current shareholders would benefit.
 But Mr. Spitzer said he was determined to refund the money directly to the people who were harmed. "The nice thing about a mutual fund is you actually know who owns it," Mr. Spitzer said, although he acknowledged that he had not sorted out exactly how the reimbursement process would work.
 Fund companies, for the most part, have not indicated how they would accomplish this, either, and several declined to comment. 
 "Everyone is trying to figure this out, but ultimately they will clear whatever they do with Mr. Spitzer and the Securities and Exchange Commission," said Joel Goldberg, a partner with Shearman & Sterling, who has been in charge of funds regulation at the commission and said he was advising several investment firms that are dealing with this issue.
 Fund companies that have said they will refund fees on money traded improperly in their funds may have trouble calculating reimbursements, given the frenetic pace of the traders' activity. 
 "It's a big fat load of work, but maybe that's part of the punishment," Ms. McGrath said. She added that she assumed regulators would make sure that the cost of sorting all this out "would not be charged to shareholders of the fund." 
 One hedge fund, Canary Capital Partners, traded in and out of Invesco's Dynamics Fund 141 times in two years, according to the complaint filed by the attorney general last week. 
 A number of class-action suits have been filed against fund companies in connection with trading abuses. It is usually not considered cost-effective in class-action cases to pay claims of less than $5 a person, said Christopher Lovell, a lawyer whose firm has sued Janus Capital. 
 Still, he said, "record-keeping for funds is much better than it is for corporations." That means it may be less expensive for the fund managers to calculate the money owed to their customers, he said, and "the break point for what is efficient to send out might be lower."
 MUTUAL funds and other financial institutions have a poor record of collecting the proceeds owed to shareholders or other lawsuit beneficiaries, according to a 2002 study by James D. Cox, a law professor at Duke University, and Randall S. Thomas, a professor at Vanderbilt University Law School. They found that less than a third of the institutions that were parties to class-action suits even filed claims for the money owed.
 One possible explanation is that "institutions are rational economic beings," the professors said. "They may expect to receive small recoveries in these cases," and decide that it is not worth the trouble.
 The difference in this case, Mr. Cox said, is that there is a very determined regulator who will pressure the fund managers to make good.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathryn McGrath, an ex-director of fund regulation at the S.E.C.. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LITIGATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Securities and Commodities Violations; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (91%); INVESCO LTD (91%); MORNINGSTAR INC (61%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CROWELL & MORING LLP (58%)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (91%); IVZ (NYSE) (91%); MORN (NASDAQ) (61%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Riva D Atlas; Kathryn B Mcgrath; Eliot L (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



217 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1934 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Who Wins and Who Loses as Jobs Move Overseas?

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ

 BODY:
The outsourcing of jobs to China and India is not new, but lately it has earned a chilling new adjective: professional. Advances in communications technology have enabled white-collar jobs to be shipped from the United States and Europe as never before, and the outcry from workers who once considered themselves invulnerable is creating a potent political force.
 After falling by 2.8 million jobs since early 2001, employment has risen by 240,000 jobs since August. That gain, less than some expected, has not resolved whether the nation is suffering cyclical losses or permanent job destruction. 
 Last month, The International Herald Tribune convened a roundtable at the Algonquin Hotel in Manhattan to discuss how job migration is changing the landscape. 
 The participants were Josh Bivens, an economist with the Economic Policy Institute, a nonprofit research group in Washington that receives a third of its financing from labor unions; Diana Farrell, the director of the McKinsey Global Institute, which is McKinsey & Company's internal economics research group; Edmund Harriss, the portfolio manager of the Guinness Atkinson China and Hong Kong fund and the Guinness Atkinson Asia Focus fund; M. Eric Johnson, director of Tuck's Glassmeyer/McNamee Center for Digital Strategies at the Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth College; and, via conference call from Singapore, Stephen S. Roach, managing director and chief economist of Morgan Stanley. Following are excerpts from their conversation.

Q. How big an issue is job migration?

MR. ROACH -- Offshore outsourcing is a huge deal. We do not have a data series called jobs lost to offshore outsourcing, but 23 months into the recovery, private sector jobs are running nearly seven million workers below the norm of the typical hiring cycle. Something new is going on. America is short of jobs as never before, and the major candidates for our offshore outsourcing are ramping up employment as never before. So yes, I think two and two is four.

MS. FARRELL -- This is a big deal in the sense that we see something structural happening. But I would react to the notion that it is a big deal we should try to stop or recognize as anything other than the economic process of change. I think the bigger deal is the fact that we are going to have very serious curtailment of the working age population.

MR. BIVENS -- I'm curious about Steve's assertion that outsourcing can explain the sluggish employment situation. If you just look at slow growth plus fast productivity, you've got the sluggish labor market right there.

MR. ROACH -- A pickup in productivity does not have to be accompanied by sluggish employment. There are countless examples, like the 1960's and again the 1990's, of rapid productivity growth accompanied by rapid employment.
 The point is that the relationship between aggregate demand and employment growth looks to me as if it has broken down. That breakdown reflects not just the rapid growth and maturation of outsourcing platforms in places like China and India, but also the accelerated pace by which these platforms can now be connected to the developed world through the Internet. These are brand-new developments. This is a huge challenge for service-based economies, like the United States.

MR. BIVENS -- How much of the insecurity that people think is caused by service sector outsourcing is in fact just the business cycle as usual? Every time there's a recession people want to blame it on some underlying structural factor, when sometimes recessions are just recessions, shortfalls in demand that work themselves out.

MR. ROACH -- Over the September to November period, employment has turned up, but many of those jobs came from the temporary hiring industry. These are service jobs, contingent workers without benefits and significantly lower pay scales. We're getting the G.D.P. growth, and by now any recovery in the past would be flashing green on the hiring front. This one isn't. With all due respect, I don't know what you guys are talking about. This is a profoundly different relationship between hiring and the business cycle. And I think these jobs are, by in large, lost forever.

Q. Who wins in offshoring and who loses?

MS. FARRELL -- There is an assumption by protectionists that these jobs are going somewhere else, and all this money has been pocketed by C.E.O.'s who take it home. A little more sophisticated version is: It's being pocketed by companies in the form of profits. One step further and you say those profits are either going to go as returns to the investors in those companies, or they're going to go into new investment by those companies. Those savings enable me, if I am an investor, to consume more and therefore contribute to job recreation, and if I am a company, to re-invest and create jobs. That's important because I agree that we are migrating jobs away, some of which will never return, nor should they.

MR. BIVENS -- Within nations, trade tends to redistribute a lot of income. The gains get pretty concentrated in the pockets of capital owners. The people who lose out are the blue-collar workers. Now you've got this class of white-collar workers who are much more insecure about their job prospects, and their labor market bargaining power is being undermined. It doesn't mean we need walls all around the economy, but it does mean we need to get really serious about making sure all these gains are distributed.

MR. HARRISS -- Look at what's gone on in China over the last 10 years: There are 300 million people in those eastern coastal provinces who have seen an extraordinary pickup in their standard of living. And you're seeing an economy that is just about to take wing because you now have consumers who were never able to participate in the economy before. Now it is people in the developed world who are being left behind. That is very difficult to resolve.

Q. One key piece of the win-win theory seems to be that displaced workers do find new jobs. What does history teach us about how well displaced manufacturing workers have been reintegrated into the work force?

MR. BIVENS -- The best research on what happens to people displaced from manufacturing is that they eventually find a new job, but they take an average wage cut of 13 to 14 percent. The people who are hit hardest are older workers. Also, it's not just the worker who is directly displaced from a sector that is hurt by international trade, it is also every other worker in the economy who has a similar skills profile.

Q. For labor, is outsourcing a race to the bottom?

MR. ROACH -- It's a race to the bottom if we spend all our energy trying to protect existing sources of job creation, as the politicians in the U.S. Congress are inclined to do. The problem is that globalization is growing asymmetrically, so initially it creates more supply than demand. We're living through that asymmetry right now, and that has caused a potentially dangerous political backlash. The Chinese, for example, are reluctant to transform their habits from savers to consumers because they're losing jobs through the reform of their own economy, and they don't have social security or retirement. Over time there is a rising tide. But the political process is not that patient.

Q. If protectionism is the wrong answer, explain how the market will solve this. Does government need to intervene at all?

MR. ROACH -- This is classic election-year posturing by a Congress that is basically responsible for the problem itself and doesn't want to admit it. We have trade deficits with China and Japan because Washington is running the most reckless fiscal policy we've seen in the United States since the late 1960's. They are the problem. It's not the Chinas and Japans and Indias of the world. Moreover, there are a lot of assumptions being made, especially by political leaders, that the rapid growth of Chinese exports and production is the smoking gun of the threat to traditional sources of job creation. About two-thirds of the export growth China has realized over the last 10 years has come from Chinese subsidiaries of multinational corporations headquartered in Japan, the U.S. and Europe and their joint venture partners. These are our companies. It's us; it's not necessarily them.

MR. JOHNSON -- It's all about innovation and productivity. As long as we maintain those two engines, we'll continue to have a very high standard of living. Out in the Bay Area there are plenty of folks who would love to create a little bit of protectionism around their I.T. jobs, but we are far better off letting a lot of those jobs go. Low-skill jobs like coding are moving offshore and what's left in their place are more advanced project management jobs.

MS. FARRELL -- We will require different services, medical devices, all kinds of things to support an aging population. Fifteen years ago, you would not have been able to fathom many of the jobs that exist today.

MR. HARRISS -- There is not much new radical innovation in Asia of the kind we're looking at to create jobs in the U.S. Apart from a very few exceptions, what Asia does well is take the latest innovations and production techniques, invest in the most recent equipment and then bring in their powerful advantages in low-cost labor, and start to produce. For the most part, the benefits to Asia are just going to come with more people coming off the poverty line and into the global economy.

Q. What happens when China ceases to be an endless pit of poverty?

MR. ROACH -- China for all practical purposes has an infinite supply of labor: 400 million in its urban population and another 900 million in the rural area. The average wage of a Chinese worker is still 2.5 to 3 percent of the counterpart in the developed world. Those are disparities that will be around for a long time.

Q. Can China keep labor costs so low and still grow a critical mass of domestic consumers?

MS. FARRELL -- You are still talking about a pretty significant critical mass of people who are now entering consumption level incomes: $7,000 to $10,000 G.D.P. per capita. Car sales in China are growing at 26 to 30 percent compound annual growth rates. Televisions, refrigerators, mobile handsets all have the same kind of J-curve. You only need 10 percent of the population to have a critical mass of income.

Q. What do you see in the future?

MR. BIVENS -- Globalization is good at increasing the productive capacity of the world, but to make sure there are enough jobs for everybody, you need demand to keep pace with that increase in supply. That's where globalization presents a real challenge. Government's big roles in the future are to make sure global demand matches supply, and to provide social insurance schemes to make sure the living standards of the workers being left behind aren't sacrificed on the altar of global progress.

MR. ROACH -- In the future there are two roads. One is to look backward and hang on to what we think we're entitled to. The other is to recognize what has made America. Our virtues lie in a flexible and open, technology friendly, risk-taking, entrepreneurial, market-driven system. This is exactly the same type of challenge farmers went through in the late 1800's, sweatshop workers went through in the early 1900's, and manufacturing workers did in the first half of the 80's. We've got to focus on setting in motion a debate that pushes us into new sources of job creation rather than bemoaning the loss. There are Republicans and Democrats alike who areinvolved in this protectionist backlash. They're very vocal right now, and they need to be challenged.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the movement of jobs overseas misstated the growth in the United States work force from August through November. It was 328,000 jobs, not 240,000.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Josh Bivens: "Sometimes recessions are just recessions."; Diana Farrell: Some jobs "will never return, nor should they."; Edmund Harriss: Asia lacks "new radical innovation" to create jobs.; M. Eric Johnson: "It's all about innovation and productivity." (Photographs by Roy Groething) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFSHORING (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RELOCATIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%) Labor; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (83%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%) International Herald Tribune

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: Erika Kinetz; Josh Bivens; Diana Farrell; Edmund Harriss; M Eric Johnson; Stephen S Roach

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (91%); SINGAPORE (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2003 



218 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Seeing the Futures 

BYLINE:  By Philip Bobbitt; Philip Bobbitt, author of "The Shield of Achilles: War, Peace and the Course of History," is a law professor at the University of Texas and a former senior director at the National Security Council.

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
There is a good deal of criticism these days leveled at the Bush administration for being surprised by a number of events -- not just the Sept. 11 attacks, but also the escape and regrouping of the Al Qaeda and Taliban leadership after the Afghanistan war, French intransigence at the United Nations in the build up to the Iraq war, Turkey's refusal of timely cooperation before that invasion, the coordinated murder and sabotagecampaign led by Baath Party remnants in Iraq, and the widespread mood of Iraqi impatience with the American presence there. 
 So the question is: was the administration blindsided because of poor work by the intelligence services, or was the problem poor coordination by the National Security Council, which is supposed to integrate the various intelligence, diplomatic and defense agencies? 
 Actually, the answer is that none of these events was really a surprise. Everything that appeared to catch the White House off guard had been anticipated in various reports, some by the National Security Council itself. The problem wasn't foresight but forethought: the Bush administration, like the Clinton White House before it, has yet to come up with an effective process to marshal judgment on the events it does foresee. 
This is not really the fault of the National Security Council. Rather, it is a matter of the historic changes around the world and of the habits of organizing ourselves we inherited from the cold war. For nearly 50 years, American decision-makers could rely on forms of "strategic planning" -- a method that begins with choosing a desired result and then plotting the decisions that will have to be made to reach that goal. Strategic planning worked well in the two-power world because we were able to extrapolate from a relatively stable and familiar security environment, relying on more or less agreed-upon intelligence estimates. Governments sought the likeliest linear future, and planned accordingly.
Unfortunately, in an increasingly decentralized world, in which previously insignificant actors and factors can play a decisive role, strategic planning can leave decision-makers flat-footed. In its unidimensional reliance on a single future, strategic planning hardens the "official future" agencies internalize, and thus prepares them poorly for appreciating rapid changes in circumstance and for making agile adaptations.
For example, using strategic thinking it might have been estimated last year that Saddam Hussein could not have produced nuclear weapons in the less than seven years since his rudimentary programs were halted in 1995. In the new world, however, no one could make such a judgment with confidence -- not because we don't know how long it takes to develop nuclear processing plants or how much fissile material is required, but because we couldn't know whether Iraq might have bought a nuclear device on the clandestine market and become a nuclear power in an afternoon.
This is why strategic planning was largely abandoned by the Clinton administration, in which I served. But no new way of thinking has replaced it. It is an open secret that the National Security Council's strategic planning directorate is really devoted to communications tasks, and that the State Department's policy planning staff is actually a speechwriting office.
In this new era of uncertainty, not only must we must accept that simple forecasting is not going to be very useful to us, we must sharpen our skills of forethought. One way will be to augment traditional strategic planning with "scenario planning," a strategy that has long been a staple at the largest multinational corporations. Scenario planning involves the creation of alternative narratives about the future based on different decisions -- by many players -- as each scenario progresses. 
As opposed to the classic strategic method of applying the past to the future -- coming up with a single, likeliest story about how things will turn out -- scenario planning is about applying the futureto the present, creating a learning framework for decisions. The idea is not so much to predict the future as to consider the forces that will push the future along different paths, in order to help leaders recognize new possibilities, assess new threats and make decisions that reach much further into the future. 
Scenario planning can also exploit the changes under way in intelligence collection -- especially the greater emphasis on human sources. Unlike strategic planning, which tends to rely on quantitative and technical information like population figures and productivity reports, scenario planning tends to use more qualitative and dynamic data. It depends in large part on studying economic, political and social trends. 
Scenario planning at Royal Dutch Shell, where I am a senior adviser, helped the corporation become one of the most profitable oil conglomerates. In the early 1970's, its scenario planners worked on hypothetical futures involving an oil boycott against the West; when political events finally brought about the Arab oil crisis, the company not only wasn't taken by surprise, it was in a position to capitalize. In the 1990's Shell analysts were scenario-planning a potential backlash against global companies, long before the antiglobalization movement took off. Thus, while most companies reacted to the new movement with corporate disdain, Shell was courting nongovernmental groups and decentralizing its global operations so that decisions in foreign divisions could be made by people living in and sensitive to the countries affected.
Getting the government to emphasize scenario planning will not be easy. To be successful, the approach depends on well-organized dialogue between decision makers at many levels, which would be culture shock for the rigidly hierarchical executive branch. (Indeed, despite the efforts of advocates like Joseph Nye, dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, to get Washington interested in scenario planning, only one country, Singapore, has made extensive use of the practice.) Our various national security agencies may not be competitive businesses, but they often behave toward each other as if they were. Intelligence is often "stovepiped" -- when analysts refuse to share information and sources with interagency rivals working on the same problems -- and mutually distrustful cultures abound. 
Also, scenario planning requires a political culture that is tolerant of uncertainty. Contingencies of uncertain probability tend to be of little interest to politicians, who are confident they know the future. Similarly, competing scenarios are anathema to bureaucrats whose careers are threatened by answering questions like, "What would it take for this estimate to be dramatically wrong?" -- which translates to, "What arguments can you give me that undermine your own recommendations?" 
To change this culture, we need an interagency working group that can organize scenario planning for a new era. It should be headed by the senior director for strategic planning at the National Security Council, and should include the director of policy planning at the State Department, the chairman of the National Intelligence Council, the political-military director for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the assistant secretary of Defense for strategic and threat reduction, and a senior representative of the Treasury secretary. This body would be charged with coordinating the work and circulating the results of scenario planning by a team made up of veteran government analysts and, perhaps, experienced people from the private sector. 
The Bush administration came to office promising to bring the best practices of the business world to bear on government. In many areas it has. Scenario planning at the National Security Council should be added to the list. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (86%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); COLD WAR (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); TALIBAN (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (56%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) BOBBITT, PHILIP; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL#000T031209SRAQA01# 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



219 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: The Great Divide: The U.S. and Europe Stretch to Close It 

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
After months of acrimony, Europe and the United States are modulating their tone and struggling to work more cooperatively on the divisive issues of Iraq, Afghanistan and European defense cooperation.
 The conciliatory stance on the American side is motivated at least in part by the urgent need to have NATO countries contribute more troops and money to Iraq and to deliver promised and much needed troops and equipment to Afghanistan. But there is a universal recognition among NATO members that the rift both within the Atlantic alliance and between Europe and the United States has to be repaired if the alliance is to remain viable. 
 "I won't say everybody is pretending that everything is fine, but people are really trying to be more constructive, less emotional and, well, diplomatic," said one senior NATO military official who took part in meetings of the group's defense and foreign ministers in Brussels last week. 
The most obvious evidence of the new tone was the public posture of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld at the alliance defense ministers' meeting last week.
"Maybe we ought to try to do a better job of communicating," he said at one point, much to the surprise of European defense ministers and military officers.
When reporters asked him about a European Union plan for defense cooperation separate from the Atlantic alliance, he did not repeat his past criticisms, but ducked the question.
"You're egging me on. You're trying to get me in trouble," he said, virtually admitting he was under instructions to hold his fire. He added, "I'm plucky but I'm not stupid."
Instead, Mr. Rumsfeld praised the Europeans for developing military capacity that they could deploy rapidly in emergencies.
More surprisingly, perhaps, he did not criticize France and Germany, the two most important American allies who opposed the Iraq war, for refusing to send troops or give financial support to help stabilize Iraq.
Mr. Rumsfeld's message was followed later in the week by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's call to NATO at its foreign ministers meeting to consider expanding its role in Iraq, a clear admission that the United States needs to internationalize its Iraq mission if it is to succeed. No one embraced the idea, but no one said no.
"That was a sea change -- that there wasn't the derision and hostility toward the U.S. on Iraq that's been here since the beginning of the year," said one senior official who attended the meetings.
Finally, on Afghanistan, suggestions by both Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Powell that the United States would like the alliance to assume more responsibility, perhaps eventually taking over the entire American-led operation, would not only put more of a burden on the Europeans but would also underscore the centrality of the alliance.
On the European side, even President Jacques Chirac of France, the staunchest opponent of the Iraq war effort, is looking for ways to play a more active role in the Atlantic alliance and even in Iraq.
In a 90-minute meeting last week with Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Mr. Chirac laid out situations in which France might be willing to help out in Iraq, according to an official familiar with the meeting.
Mr. Biden declined to comment on the substance of his conversation with Mr. Chirac, but confirmed in an interview that Mr. Chirac was seeking ways to repair the relationship with Washington.
Mr. Chirac also told Mr. Biden that France had requested the appointment of two French one-star generals to NATO's command structure, one at the alliance headquarters in Mons, Belgium, the other in Norfolk, Va., as a sign of willingness to work more closely with Washington on security matters.
"This is a time to be grown up, show a little sophistication," Mr. Biden said in Brussels last week, in urging the Bush administration to accept France's request.
Although France is not part of the military command of NATO, it has the second largest contingent in the alliance's new rapid response force, which was inaugurated in October to respond quickly to long-range crisis missions. In Afghanistan, American and French soldiers are training the new Afghan Army, and American and French Special Forces conduct joint antiterrorist operations near the Pakistani border.
A senior NATO military officer confirmed the French request but said it was uncertain whether the Pentagon would approve any move that would appear France-friendly.
For their part, the American armed forces consider the French military the most expeditionary army in Europe, and are eager to expand military cooperation in the alliance, the officer added. France still has a contingency plan on the shelf to send 8,000 to 10,000 troops to Iraq under the right political circumstances, senior NATO officials said.
Concerning a European defense identity, the Europeans have abandoned a plan to create a European Union military headquarters in Tervuren, Belgium, that would be separate from NATO. European Union foreign ministers agreed at their recent meeting in Naples, Italy, to create a small operational planning unit in the existing European Union military staff headquarters instead.
That move followed an agreement among Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, Mr. Chirac and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder that the European Union be allowed to plan and run its own military operations.
In its deal with France and Germany, Britain won assurances that a European Union military operation without NATO participation would be a remote possibility.
Even if a European Union military mission were planned and operated from a European Union center, it would be subject to a veto by any union member, British officials said.
Despite deep divisions within the British government on how tightly to embrace France and Germany on European defense, Mr. Blair is convinced that by joining them he has been able to help shape the debate and that he can control the outcome in a way that will be acceptable to Washington.
Mr. Blair and President Bush have consulted by phone about the plan, and Mr. Bush has said publicly that he believes that Mr. Blair "will be true to his word" that the plan will not undermine the alliance.
According to some diplomats, as a result of his communication with Mr. Blair, Mr. Bush persuaded Mr. Rumsfeld to say nothing hostile about the European defense plan at the NATO meetings, especially in public.
When asked about European defense in Brussels last week, for example, Mr. Rumsfeld admitted that the issue was "above my pay grade at this stage." He added that it would be "wrestled with" at the highest levels.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Flags from France, the United States and Afghanistan are flown at a camp near the Pakistan border, where about 150 French soldiers are posted. (Photo by Gamma Presse); Donald H. Rumsfeld, the defense secretary, has refrained recently from criticizing European allies. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); IRAQ WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) EUROPE; IRAQ; FRANCE; GERMANY#000T031209SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



220 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-16

Agreement Is Reached On North Korean Arms
The Bush administration has agreed with South Korea and Japan to a set of principles to end North Korea's nuclear program, calling for a "coordinated" set of steps toward the dismantling of its nuclear facilities, according to officials. A1

Deadly Airstrike in Afghanistan
Villagers in a town in southeastern Afghanistan wondered how an American attack aimed at a Taliban suspect could have killed nine children. A1

Violence Expected to Rise
The commander of American military forces in Iraq said he expected guerrilla attacks and related violence to increase in the coming months, as Iraq moves toward national elections next summer. A14

Iraq's political leaders are expected to vote this week to create a special court to try members of Saddam Hussein's government on charges varying from genocide to squandering the nation's wealth. A14

Palestinian Truce Plan Fails
Palestinian factions failed to reach an agreement on a truce with Israel after several days of talks in Cairo. Hamas and Islamic Jihad, groups that have carried out most of the suicide bombings in Israel, rejected calls for a complete cease-fire. A8

Putin Bolstered by Elections
Russians voted in parliamentary elections for a party loyal to President Vladimir V. Putin, giving United Russia 36 percent of the vote and expanding the president's already dominant political control. A1

Zimbabwe Quits Commonwealth
Zimbabwe's government said it was quitting the Commonwealth after the organization said it was extending its suspension of the country. A10

Arrests in Organ-Selling Scheme
Police in Johannesburg and Brazil have arraigned a South African man on charges of selling human body parts in a trans-Atlantic scheme. Fourteen people have been arrested in connection with the crime. A6

NATIONAL A18-27

Congress Returns to Capitol To Deal With Spending
Members of Congress returned to the Capitol to try to unravel a spending snarl that could extend into January. The House is expected to approve an $820 billion measure that wraps seven unfinished spending bills into one. Senate Democrats and a few Republicans are angry that concessions have been made. A26

Snowstorm Slows Northeast
A snow deluge traumatized traffic, contributed to at least six deaths, punched out power lines for some 7,000 residents of Massachusetts and Rhode Island and caused flooding along the coast. A18

Budget Battle in California
Arnold Schwarzenegger's aides vowed to bypass the California Legislature and put his budget-balancing measures on the ballot by gathering signatures, after lawmakers rejected the measures. A20

Dean Travels South for Votes
Howard Dean said he could win the South by appealing to voters of all races on economic issues. He visited South Carolina, where black voters, whom he has struggled to attract, make up half of the Democratic primary electorate. A20

A New Mayor of Houston
Bill White, 49, a Democrat and businessman, easily beat Orlando Sanchez, 46, a Republican and former city councilman, 62 percent to 38 percent. The race for mayor was the costliest in Houston history. A20

SCIENCE/HEALTH

A Wait for Colon Screenings
Doctors say the demand for colonoscopies to screen for colon cancer has surged so much that patients are having to wait months or are simply being turned away. A1

Hormone Claims Questioned
Many of the human growth hormone products that marketers peddle over the Internet are bogus, according to a new study. A24

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Federal Judges Critical Of New Sentencing Law
Federal judges in New York have been vocal in criticizing a new sentencing law that tightens provisions in federal sentencing guidelines and, they say, bullies them into handing down harsher sentences. Several judges have protested the law and called for its repeal. B1

Out From Under the Storm
Armies of plows cleared highways, airports limped back toward normal schedules and the residents of began to dig out of mountainous drifts from the biggest snow storm on record for early December in New York. B1

Night Lights on Wall Street
A group of downtown landlords plans to illuminate the lower facades of 14 buildings for $1 million. B3

Officer Is Hurt in Standoff
A man slashed his wife to death with a sword in the Bronx and then charged at two officers who came to his door, the police said. One of the officers fired a 14-bullet fusillade that wounded the man and the other officer, the police said. B3

Neediest Cases B5

SPORTSMONDAY D1-11

Formula Excludes No. 1 Team
The Bowl Championship Series ranking formula determined that Oklahoma and Louisiana State would meet in a national title game. The formula opened itself to criticism for excluding Southern California, which is ranked No. 1 in the polls. A1

OBITUARIES B7

ARTS E1-12

Britain's Turner Prize Awarded
Grayson Perry, 43, a relatively unknown British artist who decorates ceramic vases with disturbing images and texts, received the Turner Prize, the most prestigious in Britain for contemporary art. E3

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Freddie Mac Names New Chief
Freddie Mac announced that Richard F. Syron, a former top Federal Reserve executive and president of the American Stock Exchange, would be its new chief executive. The move is part of an effort to recover from an accounting scandal. C1

Bristling at U.S. Internet Role
The United States and the Internet's governing body are expected to come under heavy fire at a United Nations conference in Geneva to discuss the Internet's future. C1

Fed Not Expected to Raise Rate
The economy is growing faster than expected and unemployment is edging down, but analysts do not expect the Federal Reserve to raise the federal fund rate when its policy making committee meets this week. C1

Bush's Foes Use Google
A group prank is causing the search engine Google to list President Bush's official biography as the top response to searches for the phrase "miserable failure." C8

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: A paper trail for voters; Russians inch toward democracy; jump-starting winter.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

Autos D13
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E6
TV Listings E10
Crossword E9
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); BUDGETS (85%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); MAYORS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TERRORISM (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); ARRESTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TALIBAN (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); HAMAS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); REFERENDUMS (69%); FLOODS & FLOODING (64%); RELIGION (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (55%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (55%); HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



221 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Origins of Rogue Software May Be Undetectable
The people who design rogue programs that take over computers from afar are now applying the tactic that made music pirating programs so effective.
 The rogue programs, known as "Trojan horses," have enabled pornographers and others to mask their identities by using unwitting people's computers as relay stations. It had been assumed that diligent investigators could ultimately trace such material by identifying the server computer used as a starting point. But now a researcher has determined that a new kind of Trojan horse could make this system virtually unstoppable. Page C2. 

Growth Pains for Spanish Concern
Spain's largest media conglomerate, Grupo Prisa, is expanding into Latin and North America, but not without significant challenges. For one, its competitors have deep pockets. In the United States, Prisa was recently outbid by Multicultural Broadcasting of New York for control of Radio Unica. Moreover, because of currency fluctuations, its revenue has shrunk. C9.

Accepting Later Online Orders
Online merchants are poised to live dangerously this holiday season, offering to accept orders later in the shopping cycle than in the past while still promising to deliver the goods by Christmas Day. Many are accepting orders as late as Dec. 18 for standard ground shipping, and as late as Dec. 23 for expedited service. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C8.

A New Chip-Making Technique
I.B.M. plans today to describe successful efforts to create silicon memory chips using a new nanoscale technique. The technique uses a template provided by a plastic polymer that organizes itself naturally. The approach has enabled I.B.M. to create chips with memory cells just 20 nanometers in diameter and 40 nanometers apart. The approach could make data more secure, I.B.M. said. C3.

Dell's recent decision to direct some customer service calls to help desks in the United States, rather than to its call center in Bangalore, India, shows how companies with support operations overseas are having to tread a fine line with their clients. New Economy. C4.

Move to CD-DVD's on Single Disc
One Disc Technologies of Dallas is in talks with major and independent music labels to begin manufacturing a combination single-disc product that plays DVD video on one side and CD audio on the other, James Wilson, the company's president, said. C6.

Way to Print Detailed ID Photos
A subsidiary of DuPont and A4Vision, a start-up company, are to announce today a novel system for printing unusually clear and detailed three-dimensional photos on documents like passports. C4.

Wi-Fi as a Promotional Tool
Starbucks has been at the vanguard of offering wireless Internet access in the popular Wi-Fi format, with wireless "hot spots" in about 2,600 of its 4,100 stores in the United States as a way to encourage customers to come in, log on and hang out. But anticipating the day when Wi-Fi alone may not distinguish one retailer from another, Starbucks is experimenting with the equivalent of Wi-Fi flavors of the month. C4.

Haven't I Seen That Tie Before?
A Georgia inventor has been awarded a patent for an online system that lets people give away gifts they are set to receive that they do not want or need. Patents. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,862.68 up 80.22Nasdaq composite -- 1,937.82 down 22.4410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.23% down 0.10The euro -- $1.2166 up 0.0179The dollar -- 107.65 yen down 1.90

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (85%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); RETAILERS (72%); STARTUPS (70%); MEMORY CHIPS (70%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (69%); CHEMICALS (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); NEW ECONOMY (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); CALL CENTERS (67%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (65%); CURRENCIES (53%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PROMOTORA DE INFORMACIONES SA (71%)

TICKER: PZ4 (FRA) (71%); PRS (MCE) (71%); PRIS (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (71%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



222 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Hear this, procrastinators. More online merchants say they can deliver the goods for last-minute shoppers.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
MADE bold by improved technology and shipping methods, online merchants are poised to live dangerously this holiday season, offering to accept orders later in the shopping cycle than in the past while still promising to deliver the goods by Christmas Day.
 Many are accepting orders as late as Dec. 18 for standard ground shipping, and as late as Dec. 23 for expedited service. 
 The willingness to work to tight deadlines indicates that the e-tailing industry thinks it has learned from its mistakes. After the 1999 holiday shopping season, the Federal Trade Commission fined six online merchants a total of $1.5 million for failing to keep delivery promises, and shoppers were understandably wary for the next few years. 
But last year online consumers shopped later in the holiday season than they had in 2001, and orders were rising for many retailers in the week before Christmas, according to Jupiter Research, an Internet consulting firm. Because online merchants generally succeeded in shipping those gifts on time, Patti Freeman Evans, a Jupiter analyst, predicts that consumers will rely on this year's late-shipping offers in even greater numbers.
"In the early years, people believed the Internet would be great for last-minute shopping," Ms. Evans said. "Unfortunately, it wasn't all that fast. But now, it's getting there."
Ms. Evans said that in a recent survey of more than 100 online retail executives, only 15 percent said they would not allow customers to order after Dec. 20 for Christmas delivery using express service. Last year nearly a third of the respondents to a similar survey set Dec. 20 as the cut-off date for express service. 
Significant investments in shipping operations are responsible for the new confidence. About 60 percent of the executives surveyed said they had improved both their Web site technology and their shipping and handling operations in the last year, Ms. Evans said. More than half had shored up their call center operations.
Sharper Image is one of the newly emboldened. The company, which sells consumer electronics and other items through its Web site and catalog and in stores, said it had spent $3 million to $5 million last year to upgrade its San Francisco warehouse and build a new one in Richmond, Va., to augment its main warehouse in Little Rock, Ark.
Because of the geographical reach of these three warehouses, the company can offer two-day shipping to its Internet and catalog customers on about 20 percent more orders this year than last, Sharper Image's president, Tracy Y. Wan, said.
The company also significantly revamped its computer systems to allow orders to be sent more frequently to the warehouses during the day. In the past, she said, warehouse employees could process orders only at less frequent intervals; as a result, large batches could spill over into the next day. 
"You're able to reach great economies of scale when you reach over $600 million in business," Ms. Wan said, referring to this year's projected sales for Sharper Image, online and offline. "You can justify multiple distribution centers."
Ms. Wan noted that a nimbler last-minute shipping capacity would be particularly crucial this season, because Hanukkah begins on Dec. 20, nearly three weeks later than last year. "With that shift," Ms. Wan said, "there'll be some huge days coming up." 
Other retailers describe similar improvements in shipping. Jeff Wilke, Amazon.com's senior vice president for worldwide operations, said the company had reduced its processing and delivery times. 
Mr. Wilke, who answered a reporter's questions via e-mail, declined to quantify that improvement, but he said most of the progress had come from "getting each package to the dock at the right time and ready to load on the right truck." 
"We continue to work, worldwide, with each of our carriers," he wrote, "to reduce the mean and variation in their delivery times."
Online retail executives said their operational adjustments had led to new marketing strategies, as well. "For the first time, we're expecting to promote hard, right up to the last minute," said Ken Seiff, the chief executive of the discount apparel retailer Bluefly.com.
Mr. Seiff said that in previous years it was typical for the Web site to upgrade a customer's shipping request without the customer's knowledge -- to an air delivery, say, when the customer had paid only for ground shipment -- "because it was taking several days just to pack and ship, and we wanted to make sure the shipping period was reasonable."
Now, Mr. Seiff said, more than 99 percent of Bluefly's orders are shipped within 24 hours of the customer's order.
As a result, Bluefly will be able to avoid paying for shipping upgrades for customers this year, freeing the company to pursue last-minute shoppers without diminishing profits.
That is no small consideration, because 11th-hour shoppers tend to spend more. According to a recent poll by RoperASW, a research firm, 65 percent of consumers who characterized themselves as last-minute shoppers said they tended to spend more than they had budgeted. (Late shoppers are also usually male, according to retail executives.)
Because retailers have stocked rather leanly this year, after having had to resort to steep discounting during the 2002 holiday seasonto clear their shelves, procrastinating shoppers may find themselves having to move up the price curve to find items still available, executives said. 
"Most retailers have kept inventories a lot tighter this year," said Alison L. May, chief executive of RedEnvelope.com, an online and catalog gifts retailer.
With potentially more online shoppers showing up late to select from limited supplies, accurate inventory tracking systems will be important. In past years, many consumers complained that they had ordered an item only to be notified by e-mail later in the day that the item was out of stock.
Ms. Evans, the Jupiter analyst, says that fewer than 40 percent of online retailers have real-time inventory systems that allow them to quickly remove sold-out items from their Web listings.
Although RedEnvelope's inventory system is not continuously updated, Ms. May said that it did check inventory hourly and that it pulled items from its Web pages when supplies dropped below a designated threshold. That technique, she said, virtually eliminates the possibility that customers will order products that turn out to be unavailable. 
Like many other online merchants, RedEnvelope plans to sell later into the holiday season this year. The company guarantees Christmas delivery for orders placed through Dec. 17 -- two days later than last year. 
The company, originally named 911Gifts.com, has always pitched itself as a last-minute gift specialist. But RedEnvelope's operations have grown more complex, Ms. May said. 
Earlier this year, the company took over management of its shipping warehouse -- a task previously handled by a contractor. RedEnvelope also buys more items from overseas than in the past, and it personalizes more items for consumers, as well. 
"All of that adds a different dimension to things," Ms. May said. "But still, at the same time, we've gotten a little bit better." 
And, she and many other e-tailers are betting this season, a little bit quicker.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tracy Y. Wan, president of Sharper Image. The company has upgraded its warehousing in order to expand the number of items it can ship quickly to online customers. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (92%); RETAILERS (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (62%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); CALL CENTERS (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; GIFTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: TSIC INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (52%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (51%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



223 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Companies sending work abroad are learning cultural sensitivity -- to their American customers.

BYLINE:  By Laurie J. Flynn 

 BODY:
DELL'S recent decision to direct some customer service calls to help desks in the United States, rather than to its call center in Bangalore, India, shows how companies with customer support operations overseas are having to tread a fine line with their clients, some of whom are still surprised to talk to technicians on a different continent. 
 To analysts and consultants, the outsourcing of technology jobs is a trend that will only grow. In Dell's case, some of its most coveted business customers complained to management that Indian technical support workers relied too heavily on scripted answers and were unable to handle more complex computer problems. While most questions phoned in by home computer users tend to be fairly straightforward -- like how to update software or install a wireless adaptor -- greater expertise is needed to respond to corporate network problems. 
 A spokesman for Dell, Barry French, said the company was responding to concerns from business customers when it decided last month to route calls from many largebusiness customers to American call centers, though he maintained that it would not be sending fewer calls over all to its operation in India. 
"We just flipped a switch," he said, explaining that some consumer calls that had been handled by domestic call centers would now be sent to India. 
"What companies are finding is that offshore can be good for generic, commodity services," said Howard Rubin, executive vice president of the Meta Group Inc., a consulting firm. "Corporate customers have problems very local to their applications and very specific to their companies."
Analysts say that along with skill considerations, some companies may be worried about criticism from labor groups and some customers who object to sending jobs overseas. Governments are under particular pressure. This year, half a dozen states are considering that workers hired under state contracts be American citizens or documented workers. 
Stephen Lane, research vice president for information technology services at the Aberdeen Group in Boston, said, "There is a backlash and it's building, particularly in sectors like information technology that is still being hard hit by the economy." 
Clearly, information technology workers will face more difficulty as technology jobs move to cheaper labor markets abroad. According to a new survey by IDC, a market research company, nearly a quarter of information technology services will be sent offshore by 2007, sharply higher than the 5 percent of technology services being handled offshore this year. 
The first wave of offshore outsourcing began with the movement of customer-service call work to offices in India, Malaysia and Indonesia, but American companies are also beginning to send back-office work, like the processing of forms, abroad as well.
While the outsourcing of technical service jobs is reminiscent of the movement of manufacturing jobs overseas in recent decades, analysts say the difference is that the change in the technology industries is occurring faster. And the jobs that are beginning to leave are considered white-collar jobs that have traditionally been protected from competition with foreign workers. 
"Companies are getting more aggressive about it," said Chris Disher, an outsourcing specialist with the consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton. "The economies are straightforward -- you get an $80,000 engineer for $12,000," he said, alluding to wages in India.
The challenge for the United States technology companies, according to industry consultants, is to distinguish between the tasks that can be effectively handled offshore and those that cannot. Some, like Dell, have learned that they need to be sensitive to the reaction of their customers.
"In times like these, your business is attached to customer sentiment," said Atul Vashistha, chief executive of NeoIT, a California company that advises companies on outsourcing to India. "It's primarily a question of market timing."
"There are truly some areas where complexities" make sending work offshore difficult, Mr. Vashistha said. He recounted the experience of one client, a skateboard manufacturer with almost all its customers teenage boys, that found sending its support services overseas disastrous. The cultural nuances, and the constantly changing jargon of skateboarding, made it necessary for support calls to be handled by like-minded young American men. The company, which Mr. Vashistha declined to name, moved its support operations back to the United States last year.
By contrast, Scotiabank, a Canadian company, has kept its customer service operations in Canada, using technology to keep labor costs low. Higher customer satisfaction is worth the slightly higher cost, said John Parkinson, chief technologist for the Americas region at Cap Gemini Ernst & Young, a consulting business that works closely with the bank. 
Many offshore call centers are becoming more sensitive to the need to tutor workers in American customs as a crucial part of their training. Some workers in customer service jobs in Bangalore, for example, are being instructed to watch reruns of "Friends" to acquaint themselves with the cultural norms of American consumers, said Mr. Disher, the Booz Allen specialist. Trainees at many firms are also asked to read American newspapers and magazines, and are coached on American consumer habits. 
Still, many callers do not seem to care where the help desk is. "Most of the time, they're just happy to be talking to a human," Mr. Parkinson said. "The vast majority of people are indifferent to whether it's an American if they're getting good service."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CUSTOMER SERVICE (92%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); CALL CENTERS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); OFFSHORING (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); COMPUTER MAKERS (79%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); RELOCATIONS (66%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (63%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CUSTOMER RELATIONS; LABOR; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

COMPANY: GARTNER INC (82%); ABERDEEN GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DELL COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: IT (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%) INDIA

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



224 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Will the Fed Stick to Its Plan On Low Rates? 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
The economy is growing much faster than expected and unemployment is edging down, but analysts do not expect the Federal Reserve to declare victory when its policy making committee meets Tuesday.
 Fed officials have made it clear that they see no need to raise the federal funds rate, which is the interest rate at which banks lend to each other overnight, any time soon. The rate is currently 1 percent, which is the lowest rate in 45 years. 
 The real question is whether the central bank will retreat from its open-ended commitment to keep rates low "for a considerable period." Retreating from that commitment would be a first step toward tightening monetary policy, putting markets on alert that rate increases are possible several months down the road. 
Fed officials have a number of reasons for wanting to wait before taking even that first step. Though the economy grew 8.2 percent in the third quarter and seems poised to grow at nearly 4 percent through next year, Fed officials have said they want to see significant improvement in the job market and more evidence that the specter of deflation, or declining prices, has been banished.
The unemployment data released last Friday provided evidence that the job market is improving, but more slowly than the economy as a whole. The Labor Department reported that the economy added 57,000 jobs in November. That is less than half the pace in August and September and well below the 250,000 jobs a month that economists say are necessary to bring a big reduction in employment.
Inflation, meanwhile, continues to climb at very low rates, and prices for a broad range of consumer goods are actually declining. Because the productivity of workers has been soaring all year, and shot up by 9.2 percent in the third quarter, the cost of labor has actually been declining.
Analysts are divided about whether the Fed will adjust its language. Laurence E. Meyer, a former Fed governor and now analyst at Macroeconomic Advisors, an economic analysis and forecasting company, predicted that the Fed would drop its commitment to keeping policy relaxed "for a considerable period."
But Mr. Meyer also predicted that the Fed would not actually raise rates until at least next June and probably not until January 2005.
Many other analysts predict that the Fed will either stick closely to its previous statements or change the language but not its message.
"I think the probability of a change is virtually zero," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo Bank. 
For months now, Fed officials have refused to budge from their position that the risk of unwanted inflation is lower than the risk of an undesirable decline in inflation. Although Fed officials have never said what they consider an acceptable rate of inflation, their statements suggest that they would be uncomfortable if it dipped below 1 percent.
Robert T. Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, noted in a speech that inflation was running at an annual rate of about 1.25 percent and might decline further in the months ahead.
With unemployment hovering around 6 percent and factories running at less than three-quarters of full capacity, Mr. Parry predicted that "it's going to take more than a few months of robust growth to work off that that slack."
Mr. Parry acknowledged that the United States economy expanded by 8.2 percent in the third quarter of this year, the fastest growth in 20 years, but he also said that the risks of renewed inflation were much lower than in previous economic recoveries. "I believe there's still room for some pretty strong growth before the risk of inflationary pressures would become a primary concern."
In a speech last month, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, avoided using the phrase "a considerable period." But he went out of his way to say that inflationary pressures were low enough that monetary policy could afford to be "patient."
William C. Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, said that the Federal Reserve might tweak the wording of its statement after Tuesday's meeting but would adhere to the same basic message.
"Fed officials want inflation to rise," Mr. Dudley wrote in a research note on Friday. "Until this occurs or seems imminent due to increased resource utilization, they are likely to keep the Federal funds rate target unchanged at 1 percent." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (68%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (60%); WELLS FARGO & CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



225 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
For Growth, Spanish Media Company Plans to Go West

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: MADRID, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
It had seemed like low-hanging fruit. 
 Back in the late 1990's, as Jesus de Polanco looked across the Atlantic he detected in the Americas a region ripe for the products and services of the Grupo Prisa. That is the publishing and broadcasting company he had built into Spain's largest media conglomerate, perhaps best known for the country's leading paper, El Pais. 
 After all, Prisa's publisher, Grupo Santillana, had been big in Latin America for decades. And to Mr. Polanco's eye, the United States' rapidly growing Hispanic population, with more disposable income than most people in Latin America, made North America an alluring business target. 
To raise cash for further expansion in the Americas, Mr. Polanco, the company's chairman, took Prisa public in 2000, with 30 percent of the company now trading among investors on the Madrid stock exchange. His nephew, Jaime Polanco, who is responsible for Prisa's international business, struck radio, movie and television deals in Latin America and North America. 
In the United States, Prisa owns an AM radio station in Miami, WSUA, and is involved in Spanish-language film and television production, in partnership with the Mexican company Grupo Televisa, and Univision, the American Spanish-language media giant. Such bustle led the Miami news magazine Poder to choose Jaime Polanco, now 40, international chief executive of the year in 2002.
But Prisa's new-world expansion has not been without snags. In Bolivia, where the company has fallen out with its local partner, the businessman Raul Garafulic, Prisa is looking to reduce its stake in radio, television and newspapers. In the United States, Prisa was outbid in October by Multicultural Radio Broadcasting of New York in its effort to buy stations from Radio Unica Communications, the No.3 Spanish-language radio chain, which is selling assets as part of a bankruptcy reorganization. 
Moreover, the growing strength of the euro has hurt Prisa's revenue from the Americas, after the money made in dollars and various Latin American currencies is converted. And as it strives to become an international player, Prisa faces competitors with deep pockets. Its major rival in Spain is the diversified media company Recoletos, which is involved in newspapers, magazines and television and is owned by the British publishing conglomerate Pearson. 
In the United States, it encounters the likes of Univision, which although a Prisa customer in film and television, is a daunting rival in radio, having spent $3.5 billon this year to acquire the biggest Spanish-language radio chain, Hispanic Broadcasting of Dallas. The second-largest Hispanic radio company, the Spanish Broadcasting System, is part of NBC's Telemundo and is owned by the General Electric Company. 
"There is strong competition," said Aida Levitan, president of the Association of Hispanic Advertising Agencies and chairwoman of Publicis Sanchez & Levitan in Miami. 
Prisa's core businesses in Spain, which contribute the bulk of revenues, are sustaining the company, said Jaime Gortazar, an analyst at UBS Securities in Madrid. El Pais, with 445,500 circulation, is the country's largest paper. Prisa's chain of 420 Spanish radio stations, SER, leads the industry. And Prisa owns 19 percent of Sogecable, Spain's sole paid subscription digital service with several channels, whose crown jewel is soccer rights to popular teams like Real Madrid. These activities, along with magazines that include the Spanish edition of Rolling Stone, provide the cash flow that is crucial to Prisa's growth in Latin America.
In the first nine months of this year, Prisa's revenue rose 5 percent from the year-earlier period, to 988.7 million euros, or $1.19 billion. Net profit, however, dropped 44 percent, to 47.6 million euros, mainly from unfavorable currency conversions. Prisa executives say the company stands to benefit from growth in Spain's economy, which continues at double the rate of the rest of Europe. And if an economic revival in the United States spills into Latin America, they say, Prisa's business there could get a lift. 
"When the turnaround comes to Latin America, we have a competitive advantage," said Ignacio Santillana, 55, Prisa's chief operating officer. (The fact that his name is the same as the company's textbook unit, Grupo Santillana, is coincidental.) 
Mr. Santillana is one of the executives to whom the company's founder, Mr. Polanco -- now 74 -- has turned over most day-to-day operations. Other important officials are Polanco family members who have led the charge into Latin America. These include his Mr. Polanco's daughter, Isabel, who runs Grupo Santillana. Three years ago the unit acquired Editora Moderna, a publisher in Brazil, a country that now ranks with Mexico and Argentina among Grupo Santillana's biggest markets. 
"In underdeveloped countries, education is an important issue," Mr. Santillana said. "You don't have to be Latin to understand Latin America, but it helps."
Jaime Polanco widened Prisa's radio holdings in the Americas. Prisa now controls 87 percent of Grupo Latino de Radio, which owns 300 stations in Chile, Colombia, Panama and Costa Rica, as well as the Miami station. In Mexico, the company owns 50 percent of Radiopolis, the radio division of the media company Grupo Televisa. 
Mr. Santillana said Prisa's objective was to create a Hispanic radio group spanning the Americas, then float part of it on the stock market, perhaps as early as 2005. "The Latin American radio market is still very fragmented," he said.
And Prisa still sees the United States as the main chance. There, the Hispanic population has grown more than 60 percent in the last decade, to more than 35 million. 
But Ms. Levitan, the advertising executive in Miami, cautioned that Prisa could face challenges trying to use its Latin American beachhead as a departure point for the United States market. Big international media buying agencies like Carat, part of the Aegis Group, and Optimedia, part of Publicis, may welcome the prospect of a unified Hispanic market spanning the Americas, she said. But for most Hispanic advertising agencies in the United States, she said, "these are two separate markets -- at least for now."
Mr. Santillana says Prisa is spreading the financial burden of its overseas efforts by finding partners, like Mexico's Grupo Televisa for film and television and Julio Mario Santo Domingo, one of Colombia's wealthiest businessmen, for radio. Moreover, Prisa does not shy from discarding assets to reduce losses and raise cash. In October, the company cut its stake in a group of Spanish printing companies to 40 percent by selling a majority stake to the British company Polestar and a Spanish investment fund.
The expansion of Prisa's businesses through partnerships and acquisitions will continue, Mr. Santillana said, as Prisa keeps a close eye on its debt, which is currently 600 million euros ($725 million). Although the company has only about 50 million euros in cash, Mr. Santillana said, "We generate sufficient resources to self-finance." 
Still, Prisa's ambitious wish list prompts some analysts to wonder whether the company has sufficiently deep pockets to make it all come true. "At the end of the day, can they manage it?" asked Mr. Gortazar of UBS. "They have to invest an awful lot."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day last Monday about the expansion of Grupo Prisa, Spain's largest media conglomerate, into the Americas misstated the ownership of the Spanish Broadcasting System, the second-largest Hispanic radio company in the United States. It is independent, not part of NBC's Telemundo.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cadena SER is one of the radio stations owned by Spain's Grupo Prisa. The company's chairman, Jesus de Polanco, has been looking to North America for expansion. (Photo by Quim Llenas/Cover); (Photo by Nacho Guada/Cover) Chart: "Unfavorable Exchange"Grupo Prisa's revenue has grown, but the strength of the euro against the dollar and many Latin American currencies has cut into its net income. Graph tracks Grupo Prisa's revenue and net profit from 1999 through Sept. 2003. (Source by Company reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); DIVESTITURES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); FILM (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (55%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) MEDIA; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: PROMOTORA DE INFORMACIONES SA (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (80%); GRUPO TELEVISA SA (55%); PUBLICIS SANCHEZ & LEVITAN (50%); SPANISH BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GRUPO PRISA 

TICKER: PZ4 (FRA) (92%); PRS (MCE) (92%); PRIS (NYSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (80%); GEC (LSE) (80%); GE (SWX) (80%); GE (NYSE) (80%); TV (NYSE) (55%); TLEVISA (BMV) (55%); SBSA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (50%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN; SANTILLANA, IGNACIO

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); SPAIN (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



226 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Stalking the Giant Chicken Coop 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
On July 30, 1965, Lyndon Johnson flew to Independence, Mo., and in the presence of a smiling Harry Truman, signed the bill that created Medicare.
 "No longer will older Americans be denied the healing miracle of modern medicine," said Johnson. 
 The growls of opposition in the background were muted. Medicare was a desperately needed program, and it grew to be a wildly popular one. But conservatives were outraged by it. Socialized medicine, they snarled. Un-American. 
Truman had proposed a health care program for the elderly back in the 40's. It went nowhere. Jack Kennedy pushed it in the early 60's. Same result. It took Johnson's legislative genius and his enormous mandate from the 1964 presidential election to bring the program into being. And even then it wasn't easy.
Johnson's biographer, Robert Dallek, recalled that Ronald Reagan "saw Medicare as the advance wave of socialism, which would 'invade every area of freedom in this country.' "
"Reagan," wrote Mr. Dallek, "predicted that Medicare would compel Americans to spend their 'sunset years telling our children and our children's children what it was like in America when men were free.' "
Newt Gingrich ranted against Medicare in the 1990's, comparing its operations to "centralized command bureaucracies" in Moscow. And George W. Bush tried to fashion a prescription drug benefit that would require senior citizens to leave the traditional Medicare program before they could get the benefit.
After nearly four decades, during which Medicare significantly improved the health and economic conditions of the nation's elderly, this unrelenting hostility can fairly be called an obsession.
Today President Bush will sign into law a prescription drug benefit under Medicare that will introduce the first cold drafts of bitter reality to the G.O.P.'s long dream of dismantling Medicare as we've known it.
Think of Medicare as a giant chicken coop. Keep in mind that the hostile-to-Medicare Republicans control the presidency and both houses of Congress. Now you decide who the foxes and the chickens are. (Hint: we're not talking about spring chickens.)
When Lyndon Johnson and Harry Truman got together for the debut of Medicare, they were genuinely concerned about the medical needs of the nation's elderly. "These people," said Truman, "are our prideful responsibility and they are entitled, among other benefits, to the best medical protection available."
The bill that President Bush will sign today is a giant windfall for the drug companies, opening up a huge new market with virtually no effort to restrain prices. It will give Medicare recipients a modest drug benefit, but at a potentially dreadful cost. The bill starts the process of undermining Medicare by turning parts of it over to insurance companies, H.M.O.'s and other private contractors.
The drug benefit will be delivered almost entirely through private insurance plans. It would have been more efficient and cheaper to deliver it the same way other Medicare benefits are delivered. But that's not the idea. The Bush administration has mastered the art of legalized banditry, in which tons of government money -- the people's money -- are hijacked and handed over to the special interests.
Drug company stock prices soared with the passage of the Medicare bill, a sign that another government vault had been blown open and the big Medicare money was in play. The Republicans are not subtle about these matters. The bill, for example, specifically prohibits the government from negotiating discounts or lower drug prices, and bars the importation of cheaper drugs from abroad.
And then there's the "demonstration" project, to begin in 2010, in which Medicare will be forced in several cities to compete against private, profit-making health plans. It will be a rigged competition in that, among other things, the private plans will be heavily subsidized by Medicare money and will be able to cherry-pick the healthiest patients.
As one Capitol Hill staffer told me last week: "This is more than the camel's nose under the tent. This is like the head, the hump and everything else."
Harry Truman would be beside himself. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POULTRY (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); WRITERS (68%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); INSURANCE (62%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; FINANCES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%) HERBERT, BOB; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



227 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: California's New Governor Is Fighting a Familiar Battle 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Arnold Schwarzenegger ran for governor promising to end business as usual in Sacramento.
 But this weekend's collapse of negotiations over Mr. Schwarzenegger's budget-balancing strategy, and the partisan finger-pointing that quickly followed, certainly resembled the politics as usual that California voters appeared to reject when they recalled the governor, Gray Davis, in October and replaced him with Mr. Schwarzenegger. 
 California lawmakers late Friday night rejected a plan by Mr. Schwarzenegger to float a $15 billion bond issue to bail the state out of debt, coupled with a constitutional amendment limiting future spending by a fixed formula. Friday was the deadline for the Legislature to act to place both measures on the March ballot. 
In the aftermath of Friday's defeat, Mr. Schwarzenegger's aides vowed to bypass the Legislature and put the measures on the ballot next November by gathering signatures from the public. The governor is also preparing to isolate the Legislature further by putting several other initiatives before the voters, including changes to the state's workers' compensation system, a plan to open more government records, a campaign finance measure and a proposal to expand legalized gambling.
"He's now preparing to go to the ballot, just as he said he would during the campaign," said Rob Stutzman, Mr. Schwarzenegger's communications director. "Taking a bad deal is not what the voters sent him here to do."
Politicians and political analysts here, depending on their partisan stripes, interpreted the latest budget debacle as a major setback for the new governor or as a black eye for the Democrats who control both houses of the Legislature by large margins.
But despite the rhetoric from both sides, each may have achieved precisely what it wanted from the impasse, some lawmakers said.
Mr. Schwarzenegger can now mount his bully pulpit and accuse the Democrats of being "spending addicts," as he did Friday night. He can spend much of next year campaigning for his ballot proposals and demonizing a do-nothing Legislature.
Democrats can say they stopped a Republican power grab and protected programs serving children and the poor from the new governor's indiscriminate budget ax.
And the ideological divide that separates the parties in Sacramento and feeds the political paralysis here may just grow deeper.
"Everyone had more incentive for there not to be a deal than for there to be a deal," Assemblyman Joseph Canciamilla, a moderate Democrat from Northern California who has tried for months to create a bipartisan budget solution, said in a telephone interview on Sunday.
"Everyone got the sound bite they were looking for, and in the meantime we still have a huge financial problem in this state that has yet to be addressed," he said.
Mr. Canciamilla and others from both parties said Mr. Schwarzenegger's far-reaching proposals, coming just two weeks after he was sworn in, might have been doomed from the start. The plan to issue as much as $15 billion in long-term debt to underwrite a short-term deficit came under criticism from conservative Republicans as well as Democrats.
The governor's plan to rewrite the state Constitution to cap future spending was even more controversial. It would have limited growth in spending to a formula based on inflation and population growth, while giving the governor sweeping powers to cut spending in a fiscal crisis without legislative approval.
Mr. Schwarzenegger demanded that the two be linked, saying he was unwilling to increase the state's indebtedness without assurance that future spending would be contained.
In the end, bipartisan majorities rejected both proposals and lawmakers went home for the rest of the year, unless Mr. Schwarzenegger calls them back into special session -- and the Democratic leaders agree to come.
Phil Angelides, the elected state treasurer, spent the week traveling around California speaking against the governor's proposals. Mr. Angelides, a Democrat, said that financing current deficits with long-term debt was a recipe for fiscal disaster. No state has ever borrowed so much money to pay current bills, he said.
"Fifteen billion dollars is not chicken feed," said Mr. Angelides, who is expected to run for governor in 2006. "It is not a small move. It's a dramatic departure from the way this state has paid its bills before."
Mr. Angelides also said that Mr. Schwarzenegger's spending-limit plan would hobble the state's ability to respond to future crises.
"The idea of adopting a plan in three weeks that will constrain us for the next 30 years is the worst kind of public policy," he said. "Borrowing and imposing a cap don't move us one inch closer to a balanced budget. It's an illusion of budget balancing. It's Hollywood optics."
Mr. Stutzman, the governor's spokesman, said the mood among the governor and his aides this weekend was more frustration than anger. He said Mr. Schwarzenegger had addressed Assembly Republicans on Friday night as his proposals were collapsing under Democratic objections.
"They're like addicts," the governor said, according to Mr. Stutzman. "They mean well. They want to stop, but they can't. They need a people's intervention." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICS (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BALLOTS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); BONDS (76%); BOND ISSUES (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (52%) ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; GOVERNORS (US); GOVERNMENT BONDS; RECALL (ELECTIONS); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%) BRODER, JOHN M; SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD (GOV); DAVIS, GRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



228 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: INSURGENCY; 
General Sees More Attacks as Elections Near

BYLINE:  By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
The commander of American military forces in Iraq said Sunday that he expected guerrilla attacks and related violence to increase in the coming months, as Iraq moves toward national elections next summer.
 The commander, Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez, added that insurgent forces were bent on disrupting Iraq's transition to democracy and "will have to conduct some sort of operations against the political and economic sector." 
 "We expect to see an increase in violence as we move toward the transfer of sovereignty in June and July," he added. 
General Sanchez noted that the number of attacks against occupation forces had decreased in the last two weeks, as the military had stepped up its offensive operations. But his remarks at a news conference about expected violence in the next six months show that the military does not expect any sort of decisive defeat of insurgent forces in the foreseeable future.
He added that even if American forces captured or killed Saddam Hussein, a goal that remains a top priority, that would not extinguish the resolve of the guerrilla fighters, as some officials have predicted.
"The killing or capturing of Saddam Hussein will have an impact on the violence," he said, "but it will not end it."
The general emphasized the military's resolve to attack the insurgents at every opportunity, using whatever weapons seem appropriate, including 500-pound bombs and other heavy munitions. But the larger message from his remarks seems to be that United States and allied forces are facing a long, hard slog with no apparent end in sight.
In Mosul on Sunday, one American soldier was killed and another was wounded when a roadside bomb blew up under an Army Humvee, the military said. That death brings to 192 the number of American soldiers killed in combat since President Bush declared major combat over on May 1.
Another bomb hidden in garbage beside the road in Iskandariya killed a child on Saturday evening, the military reported Sunday. The child's identity was not made public.
Iraqi journalists at the news conference peppered the general with questions about accusations of mistreatment of Iraqi civilians during recent offensive operations. But he remained unruffled and undeterred.
Asked if he was worried that the military's offensive posture was alienating the population, turning them against the American occupiers, General Sanchez said he and his commanders "talk about this" before launching operations. He added that the military tried to make "a very clear effort on our part to be sure we are not alienating people."
The strategy for that, he said, was "to go back and help the people" after each attack. He added that "when damage is done, we come back and assist the people and correct the problem" by resettling displaced people or restoring damaged buildings, for example.
Still, he insisted: "The answer is clear. The only way you win in combat is to stay on the offensive."
The larger strategy for reducing the attacks against Americans is to train thousands of Iraqi police, security and military forces over the next year to take their place. General Sanchez said the military had decided to increase the size of the Iraqi Civil Defense Corps, a paramilitary force that helps fight the insurgency, to 40,000 in the coming year from its current strength of 13,000.
But he insisted that one plan, trumpeted by several Iraqi officials last week, would never be put in place. Several members of the Iraqi Governing Council reported then that they had reached agreement with the American military to incorporate fighters from each of seven private militias that belong to seven different political parties. These fighters, 700 to 1,000 in all, would be formed into a new battalion, the Iraqis said.
General Sanchez said those reports were false.
"Our position has been consistent," he said. "We will allow Iraqis to join our security forces at any time," he said, but "they will be coming in as individuals," not militiamen, "under our command and control."
"There is no place for militias," he added. The occupation authorities banned private militias months ago and vowed to disband them. But aside from one small militia in Karbala that the Army disbanded by force after it attacked an American military police unit in October, the private militias have been left largely untouched. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); POLITICS (77%); JOURNALISM (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (63%); DISPLACED PERSONS (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ELECTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) BRINKLEY, JOEL; SANCHEZ, RICARDO (LT GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%) IRAQ#000T031209SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



229 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2992 words

HEADLINE: A Centrist, Lieberman Fights For Votes in an Extremist Era 

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
It is a quiet Sunday morning in early fall on Franklin Street in Concord, N.H., and Joe Lieberman is being his indefatigably genial self, campaigning door to door -- listening intently to voters, nodding thoughtfully while a herd of flowerbed-trampling reporters and factotums snorts and stamps on his tail.
 Out beyond the curb, a handmade sign bobs above the heads of the onlookers. It is a sheet of white poster board studded with images of bloodied children. The couple carrying it have abandoned their morning coffee to let Mr. Lieberman know how they feel about his enthusiastic support for the war in Iraq. 
 Undaunted, he wades across the sidewalk to meet them. They confront him, he listens; he starts to respond, they remonstrate some more. Two doors up, another Iraq question awaits him, this time from a woman with her son in tow. Again, Mr. Lieberman takes time to make his case. 
He supported the war, he tells her undefensively; he believes it was the right thing to do. The world is safer, he says, with Saddam Hussein removed from power. But he is stunned by the Bush administration's mishandling of the aftermath, he says. It should have reached out immediately for international help.
He thanks the woman for her question; he invites her to a town hall meeting that night; he suggests she visit his campaign Web site. Starting up the sidewalk with his wife, Hadassah, he turns back to the questioner one more time, as though loath to give up on the possibility of winning her over.
"Probably you and I agree on most things," he suggests.
The woman nods. But her expression is opaque.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman has built his career doing what he did that morning: wading across ideological divides, hunting for common ground and doing it with a mix of civility and conviction that at its best has won over Democrats, Republicans and independents alike.
Yet Mr. Lieberman is running for the presidency at a time when many Democrats appear to have lost the appetite for conciliation. They are angry, and not least about the Republican administration's war, which Mr. Lieberman, a Democrat, went out of his way to support.
What becomes of a candidate who has built his record on bipartisanship at a moment when many in his own party want nothing to do with the other side? And what becomes of a mild-mannered centrist in a crowded field when the surest route to the limelight is to blurt out something extreme?
As Mr. Lieberman sees it, anger does not win general elections. "Voters want somebody who's strong, that they can trust to make things better," he says. And they want someone who can beat President Bush, which he says he is well positioned to do in part because of his record on national security and values.
But others wonder: Have his assets become liabilities?
"The Democrats are in no mood to make peace with the Republicans," said William E. Curry Jr., an aide to President Bill Clinton and a longtime friend of Mr. Lieberman. "And the public is in no mood to make peace with Washington.
"It's a hard time for his strengths," Mr. Curry said. "His strengths may not look like strengths in that environment. But that doesn't mean they wouldn't be every bit as valuable in governing."

Shaped by the 60's
Mr. Lieberman is not easy to pigeonhole. He is progressive on social issues, moderate on fiscal issues, conservative on national security. Pegged a moderate, he prefers "independent minded." 
Abortion rights groups and environmental groups rate him highly. He was active in the civil rights movement and an early opponent of discrimination against gays. In 2002, National Journal rated him one of the most "socially liberal" senators.
But he is also pro-business, pro-growth, pro-trade and pro-defense -- all hallmarks of the Democratic Leadership Council, the centrist group that nurtured the presidential ambitions of Bill Clinton, Al Gore and now Mr. Lieberman. He has supported limited experiments with school vouchers. He has voted for tax cuts on capital gains and the V-chip, which lets parents block television programs. He has been known to ally himself with the likes of William J. Bennett and Orrin G. Hatch.
He parts company with fellow Democrats, most notably on national security. He was the lead Democratic co-sponsor of the Senate resolution that authorized the 1991 Persian Gulf war, and last year he became one of the most outspoken Congressional Democrats favoring invading Iraq.
"He's a kind of rara avis," said Colin McEnroe, a writer and the host of a drive-time talk radio show on WTIC-AM in Connecticut who has known Mr. Lieberman since the 1970's. "What you have in Joe Lieberman is a guy who was shaped by the 60's, who marched with Martin Luther King, whose beliefs were forged in the crucible of being at Yale in a time of social change.
"You've got all that, but that's fused with -- he's an Orthodox Jew. And there are things that go along with that that are perhaps more conservative in nature. You can't look at Lieberman the way you would look at some other Democrat of a comparable age and lineage. He's a different guy. He believes in the dream of Martin Luther King, but he also believes in the Old Testament."
In his personal style, too, Mr. Lieberman is an unexpected mix.
He uses the phrase "the American dream" without the quotation marks. He telephones his 89-year-old mother, Marcia, every day. He says "God bless you" often, as in, "You kids are what it's all about. God bless you." Even after being loudly heckled, he has been known to address an audience, "Dear friends."
He is often accused of sanctimoniousness. And during the 2000 presidential campaign, when as Mr. Gore's running mate he suggested, "There must be a place for faith in America's public life," he was taken to task by the Anti-Defamation League, which accused him of "almost hawking" his faith.
But Mr. Lieberman is also funny, in a mildly self-mocking sort of way. A former colleague in the Connecticut State Senate fondly recalled his "wry detachment." Asked recently at a campaign event how he was holding up on the trail, he answered, without missing a beat, that he was planning to donate his body to science for a study of the long-term effects of Clif Bars.
The roots of Mr. Lieberman's moderation, personally and politically, can be traced as far back as his early childhood in Stamford, Conn., which he spent with his family in the home of his maternal grandmother, an Austrian immigrant and widowed mother of five who, he has written, never took her freedom and opportunity here for granted "and she made sure I didn't either."
Mr. Lieberman's political skills are said to have come from his gregarious mother, still a campaign trail presence, ensconced in a wheelchair, a large black pocketbook across her lap. During his 1994 shoo-in Senate race, Mr. Lieberman's staff used to joke that the only way he would lose would be if Marcia Lieberman ran against him.
He was a multiple-term class president and a prom king who spent much of his weekends at temple and in religious study. He grew up steeped in the concept of tikkun olam, the obligation to improve the world, and in the belief that to serve God, one must serve one's fellow humans.
He was a reader of history. The stories that impressed him most were the stories of leaders like Winston Churchill, who, as he put it recently, "saw the evil of fascism and Nazism and rallied the world to stop it," and Harry S. Truman, "who saw the outbreak of Communism for what it was and was instrumental in creating NATO and keeping America strong to push back Communism."
Asked about his own willingness to resort to military solutions to aggression in the world, Mr. Lieberman said, "Part of this may come from my religious upbringing and sort of world view that, you know, there is evil in the world and if good people don't stand up to try to stop it, it will spread and a lot of people will be hurt."
The first in his family to go to college, Mr. Lieberman entered Yale in the fall of 1960. He joined a class on a cusp between the passivity of the 1950's and the activism that followed. If he was shaped by the decade, it was by the early part -- the civil rights movement -- more than by the Vietnam War, which he supported until about 1967.
He was elected chairman of The Yale Daily News. He joined the March on Washington in 1963. And at the urging of William Sloane Coffin, then the Yale chaplain, he went to Mississippi later that year to help register black voters for a mock election, a precursor to the 1964 Freedom Summer.
He immersed himself in politics. He wrote his senior thesis, which became his first book, on John M. Bailey of Connecticut, then the Democratic National Committee chairman and one of the most effective political bosses in the country. And he worked as an intern for Abraham Ribicoff, the United States senator from Connecticut and a mentor, from whom he learned the meaning of the phrase "the integrity of compromise."
David Wyles, a college roommate, says he and Mr. Lieberman came to Yale from comparable class backgrounds. But Mr. Wyles, a scholarship student, took campus jobs. "Busing dishes for these rich preppies and having them treat me like a servant," Mr. Wyles says, he became a radical. Mr. Lieberman took another route.
"He saw going into politics as a viable alternative," Mr. Wyles said. "You know what? It's not in his nature to be a radical. He's a balanced person. He listens to people. He rarely goes too far in the pendulum because he's always thinking about what other people think. Not that he doesn't have his own moral compass. But he reaches out to other people.
"I think he has a definite sympathy for the underclass, for immigrants, for blacks, for Latinos. But it's not like he doesn't relate to insurance executives either. That's part of buying into the American dream: 'We can all become middle class.' Of course, it's not true, but he believes it."

Taking on an Incumbent
Connecticut politics in the 1970's was not a bad place for Mr. Lieberman's moderate inclinations. Neither party had a lock on the governorship or the Legislature; both sides courted independents. The tone was collegial. Three years out of Yale Law School, Mr. Lieberman was elected to the State Senate from New Haven.
He rose quickly to the position of Senate majority leader. He worked closely with Ella T. Grasso, then the governor, whom he admired as a "New Democrat before anyone coined the term" -- fiscally responsible and a believer in what he calls "that wonderful Paul Tsongas line that you can't be pro-jobs and antibusiness."
After an unsuccessful campaign for a United States House seat in 1980, he was elected Connecticut's attorney general in 1982. He is widely credited with having reinvented that office, turning it from a backwater into an activist operation. Dogging polluters and consumer frauds, he was in the news constantly. He became one of the most popular politicians inthe state.
"A lot of progressives in the party began in those days to see him as a progressive, maybe mistakenly so," said Toby Moffett, a former Democratic representative from Connecticut, who said the issues the office handled lent themselves to that interpretation. "I don't think he was faking anything, I think that's where he was. But I think it gave the impression that he was a liberal. And maybe he never was."
In 1988, Mr. Lieberman took on Lowell P. Weicker Jr., the renegade Republican United States senator who had become famous during Watergate by denouncing President Richard M. Nixon. Mr. Lieberman entered the race as a long shot. But with a strategy interpreted by some as brilliant and others as baldly opportunistic, he closed the gap with just three weeks to go and won.
He ran to the left and to the right of Mr. Weicker. He attacked his record on environmental and consumer protection while accusing him of being weak on foreign policy and crime. He let fly a series of television advertisements caricaturing Mr. Weicker as a hibernating bear who woke only to collect honoraria. Mr. Lieberman's victory sharpened his image, for better and worse.
"Weicker was a gigantic figure," Mr. McEnroe said. "What Lieberman did was to create a political opportunity that didn't exist. It showed that underneath this gentle, smiling, soft-spoken, Ivy League persona -- this Jewish Dalai Lama thing he does -- he could, if he had to, get out the chain saw. Nobody could look at that campaign and say, 'This guy can't play hardball.' "
The memory still angers Weicker supporters.
Thomas J. D'Amore Jr., a political consultant and lobbyist who worked on the Weicker campaign, said: "Lieberman was prepared to change his positions and views on almost anything, including campaigning. He started out his political career as a genuine liberal. That all changed. I don't know if that's a question of someone maturing or being politically ambitious.
"Part of what's deceptive about Joe is he is a very soft-spoken and pleasant individual. He's got that quality about him that Dick Cheney does. They speak in very soft, reassuring tones and therefore don't sound threatening. But you need to listen very carefully to what they say."
Shortly before the 1988 election, Peter G. Kelly, a former national finance chairman for the Democratic Party, introduced Mr. Lieberman to Al From, the founder of the Democratic Leadership Council, the Washington group that admirers now credit with having helped modernize the Democratic Party and detractors blame for moving it to the right.
What the council had done, Mr. Kelly said recently, was put together a "substantive credo" for moderates -- on which Bill Clinton later ran for president and governed. Mr. Lieberman became involved with the council early in his first term in the Senate. By 1995 he was chairman. It became for him both a source of ideas and a link to a network of political contacts.
He has worked with its research group, the Progressive Policy Institute, on ideas for everything from economic policy and defense modernization to welfare and education reform. Through the council, he says, he formed important Senate friendships with Sam Nunn of Georgia, John B. Breaux of Louisiana and Charles S. Robb of Virginia. Mr. From is a close adviser and friend.
"It was a huge turning point," Mr. Kelly said of Mr. Lieberman's coming together with the council. "One of the great lessons for the Democrats is that if you stand in the center of the spectrum, it's very hard to be beaten. Because somebody else can't get enough on the left or right to take you down. Joe has very strongly occupied the center."

Criticism From Two Sides
In 2000, Mr. Lieberman's centrism helped land him the vice presidential nomination. But he did not emerge from that experience unscathed. Liberal Democrats accused him of not being sufficiently Democratic, while Republicans savaged him as being too Democratic and revamping his positions to suit his running mate. 
He was criticized, after a Los Angeles fund-raiser, as having seemed to soft-pedal earlier criticisms of the entertainment industry's excesses. Republicans accused him of abandoning school vouchers and Social Security privatization -- though he says he had already written off privatization as a bad idea and simply stopped talking about vouchers during the campaign because Mr. Gore opposed them.
Once Mr. Bush was elected, Mr. Lieberman voted against his 2001 and 2003 tax cuts. He co-sponsored an amendment to stop the administration from opening the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge to drilling. He voted against confirming John Ashcroft as attorney general and Gale A. Norton as interior secretary. But on Iraq, he praised the president's case as "eloquent, powerful and convincing."
"Unfortunately for Joe," said Eleanor Holmes Norton, Washington's delegate to Congress and a critic of Iraq policy, "the war has become the Achilles' heel for the president and therefore it will be the Achilles' heel for anybody who embraced the president's view. And Joe is so principled that he reiterates his views on the war and gets booed for it."
The Lieberman campaign has lately been struggling for traction. Last month, it opted to bypass Iowa's presidential caucuses. Mr. Lieberman is now pinning his hopes on the second round of primary states like Oklahoma and Arizona. Even in Connecticut, Howard Dean has made inroads.
"What Howard Dean has tapped into is a frustration among Democrats like myself with the willingness of our party to go along with the Republican agenda," said J. Brendan Sharkey, a state representative from Hamden, Conn., who is supporting Mr. Dean. Of Mr. Lieberman, he said, "I think he's perceived generally as a lite version of the Bush agenda."
Mr. Lieberman's supporters counter that party mathematics are in his favor: They say only one-third of Democrats call themselves liberal while many more call themselves moderate to conservative.
"It remains to be seen whether moderates will participate other than moderately," Mr. Kelly said.
It is late Sunday night in Hartford and Mr. Lieberman is sitting in the back seat of his car with a reporter and his campaign press secretary, Jano Cabrera, while the engine hums and the driver idles outside his hotel.
So, what have you ever done to excess? Mr. Lieberman is asked.
"Um, you know, love my children," he answers teasingly. "Pray to God."
He chuckles.
"I'm sorry, I can't . . . To excess? What do you mean?"
The question is rephrased.
"Oh, when I was a kid, I drank too much," he offers.
Nothing in the last 40 years?
Mr. Cabrera leans forward: "I'm just as curious as she is, sir."
A pause.
"You want to hear about the wild. . . ." Mr. Lieberman begins. "Naah. I can't tell you. Excess? I can't think of anything. Or anything I want to say. Let's leave a little mystery here."

Challenging Bush
This is the fifth article of a series examining the lives and careers of the candidates seeking the Democratic presidential nomination. In addition, an audio slide show is online at nytimes.com/campaigns.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman(Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. A1); JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. A22) Chart: "A Career In Shaping The Law" Born Feb. 24, 1942, in Stamford, Conn. 1960-67 Yale University 1964 -- Graduates from Yale University. He was the first in his family to go to college. 1967 -- Graduates from Yale Law School and begins to practice law. 1967-70 -- Lawyer 1971-81 -- Connecticut state senator 1970 -- Elected to Connecticut State Senate. Serves 10 years, including the last six as majority leader. 1981 -- Returns to private legal practice for two years. 1982 -- Elected attorney general of Connecticut. 1983-89 Conn. attorney general 1988 -- Elected to the United States Senate. 1991 -- Lead Democratic co-sponsor of Persian Gulf war resolution. 1994 -- Co-author of law creating a federal charter school program. 1989-PRESENT -- United States senator 2000 -- Runs for vice president on the Democratic ticket with Al Gore; they narrowly lose. 2002 -- Prime supporter of the 2002 resolution authorizing the use of force against Iraq. (Sources by Biographical Directory of the United States Congress; Lieberman campaign; Congressional Quarterly)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (79%); BUDGETS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); IRAQ WAR (75%); TERRORISM (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); ETHICS (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS; TERRORISM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000#000T031209SRAQA01# 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (94%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%) SCOTT, JANNY; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (57%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



230 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Freddie Mac Picks as Chief An Ex-Head Of the Amex 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
In what Freddie Mac hopes is another step away from its accounting troubles, the company announced yesterday that Richard F. Syron, a former top Federal Reserve executive and a former president of the American Stock Exchange, would serve as its new chief executive and chairman.
 The appointment is part of the effort by Freddie Mac, the nation's second-largest buyer of home mortgages after its corporate sibling Fannie Mae, to recover from accounting problems. Last month, after an 11-month review of its accounting, the company announced that it had understated its earnings by nearly $5 billion over more than three years as a result of improper accounting methods apparently intended to produce smooth earnings growth that appealed to investors. 
 "This is an organization I have an enormous amount of commitment to," Mr. Syron said yesterday in a telephone interview. "One of the things that I'm going to be looking at first is being sure I totally understand the accounting and control procedures and we're in the kind of shape that I'm pretty confident we are right now in." 
The company has not released any financial reports for 2003, but its current chairman, Shaun O'Malley, said that those numbers should be completed by June of next year. "That's our target and that's what we're working on," Mr. O'Malley said. "I'm sure that Dick will help." Mr. O'Malley will become lead director on the company's board, according to Freddie Mac.
Mr. Syron, 60, whose appointment as chief executive will take effect at the end of the year, will succeed Gregory J. Parseghian. Mr. Parseghian took over as chief executive in June after several top executives, including the previous chief, Leland C. Brendsel, either resigned or were ousted.
Freddie Mac's primary regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise oversight, in August demanded that the company name a chief executive instead of Mr. Parseghian. The regulator stated its concerns after a law firm's report on the preliminary results of its investigation of the company's accounting raised concerns about Mr. Parseghian's role in some of the transactions whose accounting has come into question.
Armando Falcon Jr., the director of Freddie Mac's primary regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, said in a statement yesterday: "We are pleased that the Freddie Mac board, in accordance with its agreement with O.F.H.E.O., has named a new C.E.O. prior to the end of the year. I look forward to working with Mr. Syron to ensure the continued safe and sound operation of the company."
Mr. O'Malley, the Freddie Mac chairman, said that the current chief executive would assist Mr. Syron during the transition. The continued role played at Freddie Mac by the executive, Mr. Parseghian, since the company's board agreed to replace him has riled regulators, who have expressed concerns about his role in some transactions whose accounting has come into question. Regulators in particular have expressed concern that Mr. Parseghian participated in a conference call announcing Freddie Mac's restatement last month.
A spokeswoman, Corinne Russell, said the regulatory agency has been discussing Mr. Parseghian's role with Freddie Mac.
Mr. Syron, who comes with a reputation as a level-headed, no-nonsense executive, most recently has served as the executive chairman of Thermo Electron, a maker of analytical instruments used by pharmaceutical companies in the development of new drugs. He came to Thermo Electron, an 11,000-employee company, in 1998, when it was struggling to simplify its corporate structure, which had 24 separate subsidiaries.
Andrew Sidoti, who follows Thermo Electron for Wm. Smith & Company, said that Mr. Syron did a good job of reorganizing the company by focusing on analytical instruments, its core competency.
"He did 7 tender offers, 9 mergers, 45 divestitures and 2 spinoffs, which helped focus the company on its core business," Mr. Sidoti said. 
"They had been a company that had been in too many different industries," Mr. Sidoti said. "The corporate structure had been too complicated for investors to understand and too unwieldy for management to run effectively. At its peak, Thermo Electron had 28 separate publicly traded entities." 
Mr. Syron said that while there were some parallels between his experience at Thermo Electron and what he expected to find at Freddie Mac, he did not think that Freddie Mac faced obstacles that were as difficult.
"Freddie Mac is not a turnaround situation," said Mr. Syron, adding that he spent time reviewing an outside law firm's report on the company's accounting and meeting with its auditors at PricewaterhouseCoopers, as part of his research on whether to take the job. 
"My impression from the report was this is a company that strayed a bit," he said. "It made some mistakes; the mistakes that it made were accounting mistakes and I am not a sufficient diviner of the past to understand how much this was the accounting firm, how much it was other things. They were not economic mistakes."
One priority, in the first few months at the new job, which will require him to move to Washington from Boston, will be to recruit someone with experience in portfolio management, Mr. Syron said. 
"I'm an economist by training, quite familiar with finance," Mr. Syron said, "but not a portfolio manager."
Before taking on the leadership of Thermo Electron in 1998, Mr. Syron served for five years as chairman and chief executive of the American Stock Exchange and before that as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
In earlier years he also worked as an assistant to Paul A. Volcker, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve and a trusted name in the business world. 
In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Volcker said that Mr. Syron was a seasoned finance professional whose range of experiences would help him learn about and lead Freddie Mac.
"I don't know what all the problems are at Freddie Mac, but I have great confidence that he's a straight shooter and knowledgeable," Mr. Volcker said. "If it has problems with accounting or ethical standards, he will be able to straighten it out." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (73%) HOUSING; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%) FREDDIE MAC; OFFICE OF FEDERAL HOUSING ENTERPRISE OVERSIGHT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

PERSON: RICHARD F SYRON (90%) SYRON, RICHARD F; O'MALLEY, SHAUN F; PARSEGHIAN, GREGORY; FALCON, ARMANDO JR; GLATER, JONATHAN D

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



231 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Homesteading a Little Place in History; 
Archive Documents Squatters' Movement on Lower East Side

BYLINE:  By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
It was empty, the sorry old tenement on East Seventh Street. The City of New York was the owner of record, but no one was keeping up the building. Parts of the facade were crumbling. Bits of sky could be seen through the holes in the roof.
 Then the squatters came. 
 Almost 20 years ago, a group of artists and skilled tradespeople began living in the dilapidated hulk. The city did not acknowledge that they were there; officially, the building was not fit for habitation. So these squatters led an outlaw existence. They wired stolen electricity into the building. They carried water upstairs from fire hydrants. Always, they kept a wary eye out for the police. Now the building has new windows and doors. There is a boiler for hot water and a solid roof. And on the third floor of the building on 209 East Seventh Street, one of the longtime squatters, an artist who calls herself Fly, is beginning to think about posterity. 
So here are some artifacts: a key to the front door of Dos Blocos, on East Ninth Street, where squatters were evicted in 1999 to make way for renovations and deep-pocketed renters. Here is a schematic showing how to steal electricity from mains. Here is a pair of shorts of the sort favored by certain squatters; Fly calls them "crusty shorts" and shows how the patches are sewn on with dental floss.
"I began my squatter museum bit by bit," Fly said as she sat in her kitchen, a simple airy place with plywood floors. "I wanted to make people aware that squatting has historical and cultural significance and I wanted my approach to be anthropological."
Fly is one of a group of squatters who have decided to pool their collections of documents, photographs and artifacts. The group, the Lower East Side Squatters and Homesteaders Archive Project, received a modest grant from New York State this summer and have hired an archivist. The goal, they say, is a collection that could be housed in a cultural institution and be available to the public.
As the neighborhood becomes increasingly gentrified and as the squatters themselves take ownership of the buildings they seized, many want to record a way of life that may be vanishing. For some squatters, the days when they cooked on hot plates, burned wood in homemade stoves and marched in group protests were a time of camaraderie in the face of adversity. 
They may remember the old days as poetic, but others in the neighborhood think the squatters are criminals. There is no way, however, to tell the recent history of the East Village without them, said Christopher Mele, an associate professor of sociology at the State University of New York at Buffalo and the author of "Selling the Lower East Side: Culture, Real Estate, and Resistance in New York City" (University of Minnesota Press, 2000), who has advised the squatters on their archive project.
"They are a constant in a recent history of rapid economic and social change," Professor Mele said. "To have their records in a repository will make a world of difference from a historical ground-up perspective."
Peter Filardo, the archivist of the Tamiment Archives at New York University, a collection documenting radical politics and progressive movements, agreed. He said that the squatters' part in the history of the Lower East Side was significant to scholars and researchers. An archive, he said, "would be the type of thing you could guarantee would be well used."
Although dozens of squatter buildings once dotted the Lower East Side, most of the squatters have been evicted. But last year the city transferred the titles of 11 of the 12 remaining squatter buildings there to the Urban Homesteaders Assistance Board, a nonprofit housing organization. That group says that after the buildings are brought up to code, it plans to turn the deeds over to the squatters, making them legal owners, with the provision that future sales be to low-income buyers.
This was a surprising turn of events to those who remember the history. During the 1980's and 1990's, developers and city officials criticized squatters, saying that they fostered a raffish, disorderly atmosphere and obstructed the gentrification of the Lower East Side.
At times clashes between squatters and the police led to public disturbances. In 1995, the riot police used an armored personnel carrier to evict squatters from buildings on East 13th Street that the city wanted to convert to low-income housing.
Some longtime residents of the Lower East Side still resent the squatters. Ralph Feldman, a landlord who has lived in the neighborhood for 30 years, said he thought many squatters were simply after a cheap adventure. "They were looking for free housing," he said. "It was like being at camp away from home."
The squatters disagree, saying that they used sweat equity to change abandoned properties into affordable housing, and that they spent plenty of money on repairs. Some squatters wonder aloud how their detractors would fare living without heat or hot water, as many did in the squatter buildings. Others see vindication in their continued existence.
"We created a culture that still exists today," said On Davis, a member of the archive collective who lives at 209 East Seventh Street.
About a year ago, Matthew Metzgar, who has lived in two squatter buildings, began discussing the idea of an archive with others, including Miranda Edison, who curates a library of rare self-published magazines at ABC No Rio, a cultural center on Rivington Street that was once a squatter building, and Peter Spagnola, a poet who had lived in an East 13th Street squat. They assembled a board and began meeting at the Tribes Gallery on East Third Street with Steve Cannon, the gallery owner.
After receiving a grant for $1,845 in September from the Documentary Heritage Program, part of the New York State Education Department, the group hired Alan W. Ginsberg, an archivist who has worked on collections belonging to the Union Theological Seminary and the Woody Guthrie Archives. Board members began handing out survey forms to squatters asking for a list of material they would be willing to donate.
Among the documents the squatters have already gathered is a flier from the early 1990's with "Declaration of War" and "Defend the Squats" next to an illustration of a squatter facing a police officer. Another flier from the same era, intended to build support for squatters, was titled "Living in a Squat," with photographs of a squatter building before and after repairs.
"We want this archive to be a collection that anyone, friend or foe, can access to write our history," Mr. Metzgar said.
Gerry Wade, who called squatting a "self-help housing movement," said he had lived for two weeks in Tompkins Square Park in 1984 after being evicted by a landlord, then moved into a squat on East Ninth Street. He has several hundred pieces of paper on squats, including legal documents, fliers advertising benefits and political demonstrations and lists of people who had agreed to rush to any building that was in imminent danger of eviction.
Mr. Wade said that his previous squatters collection had been destroyed in a fire in a squat on East Ninth Street in 1995, but he felt it was important to assemble a new one. "If we don't create our own history," he said, "somebody else will."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A building at 209 East Seventh Street, above, was dilapidated when squatters moved in about 20 years ago. Now it has a boiler and a solid roof. Etched into a concrete stairway, left: "209 East 7th Homestead."; Fly, an artist and longtime squatter at 209 East Seventh, displaying a pair of "crusty shorts," part of her collection of squatters' memorabilia. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B1); On Davis, an artist and a musician, in his apartment at 209 East Seventh Street. Of squatters, Mr. Davis said, "We created a culture." (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (87%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Housing; Squatters; Archives and Records

ORGANIZATION: Lower East Side Squatters and Homesteaders Archive Project

PERSON: Colin Moynihan; Alan W Ginsberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



232 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Struggling for Financial Stability, With Worsening Eyesight

BYLINE:  By NIA-MALIKA HENDERSON

 BODY:
Close your eyes. Now open them again.
 For you, it is as simple a task as breathing. 
 But for Jose Contreras, there is nothing simple about it.
At 30, Jose Contreras was a hard-working family man living in Puebla, Mexico. He worked at a parts distribution plant for Volkswagen 65 miles outside Mexico City. He had a wife and four children. 
And he had a problem: he was losing his ability to see.
"I never had great vision," he said recently in Spanish, through an interpreter. "But my eyelids just kept going down and down."
Mr. Contreras has myogenic ptosis (TOE-sis), commonly called droopy eye syndrome, which causes his eyelids to droop. And it has grown progressively worse since he was a boy.
While some people are born with myogenic ptosis, Mr. Contreras's case was caused by trauma.
At age 8, he was struck in the left eye by a stone tossed by a playmate. Then at 12, he was punched in his right eye during a fight in the schoolyard. Irreparably damaged, his eyelids began to hang heavy over his eyes, like broken window shades.
Doctors in Mexico predicted that his vision would be completely obscured by the time he turned 50. 
But tomorrow, at age 43, he hopes to defy that prediction, with some help from The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, and from one of its beneficiary agencies -- Catholic Charities, Archdiocese of New York.
Mr. Contreras, who immigrated to New York in July 1999, will finally have surgery to correct his condition and spare him from a life in darkness.
Dr. Monica Dweck, who specializes in oculoplastic surgery, will perform the two-hour operation at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn.
"The aim of the surgery is to lift the lids so Mr. Contreras can see the entire field of vision," she said. "Right now he can only see the bottom half because his eyelids cover his pupils."
Mr. Contreras says he is thrilled at the prospect of being able to see normally, though what brought him to New York was not the promise of medical miracles (until recently, an unaffordable luxury). Rather, he was drawn by something far more fundamental to daily survival: the promise of reasonably steady work.
When Mr. Contreras left Mexico, its economy was stumbling. The Volkswagen factory had shut down, and Mr. Contreras had had another child, his fifth. So he made his way to New York, where he lives with his brother-in-law and two other companeros and sends money back home to his wife and family as often has he can.
In the United States, Mr. Contreras had no trouble finding regular employment, despite his limited vision. In 2001, he was working on a construction site near the World Trade Center. On Sept. 11, he arrived just as the second tower fell.
Like so many others, Mr. Contreras lost his job in the aftermath of the attack, and his family in Puebla lost the income he had been providing.
He was able to find employment cleaning out apartments damaged in the terrorist attack, but that work was not enough. His telephone calls home -- usually twice a week -- became less frequent, and Mr. Contreras fell behind in his rent and faced eviction from his apartment in East Harlem.
That's when he went to Catholic Charities at St. Cecilia's Parish on East 105th Street. There, he connected with Arlex Cardona, a case manager, and Regina Kirk, the director of parish services. They helped cover his back rent and gave Mr. Contreras bags of groceries from the food pantry.
Eventually, Mr. Contreras found a temporary job as a dishwasher. Yet things continued to darken, because his vision continued to deteriorate.
"I noticed that I was making a lot of mistakes on the job," he recalled. He had always had trouble seeing objects that were far away, but seeing things close up was beginning to be a problem as well.
He lost that job, but found new employment yet again, this time as a painter on a construction site. But he continued to make errors because of his poor vision. Fearful that he would lose his job, Mr. Contreras visited Mr. Cardona again in March.
"I arranged for Mr. Contreras to see an eye doctor, and I was also his translator," Mr. Cardona said.
At that medical visit, they had a good-news, bad-news moment. They learned that that Mr. Contreras's vision could be saved through surgery -- if he could come up with nearly $4,500 for consultation fees, tests and the procedure itself.
Barely able to provide for himself and his family back home, Mr. Contreras could not save for the cost of the surgery. So, the Neediest Cases Fund is contributing $400, and Catholic Charities will cover the rest. Mr. Cardona will also make sure that Mr. Contreras makes it to his follow-up appointments.
Recovery time is at least a week. And he will have to start wearing protective eyewear at work, and perhaps prescription glasses. But these are changes that Mr. Contreras, who hopes to return to Mexico one day, says he does not mind. They are of small consequence, next to clear vision and a wide-open future.
"I am hoping to see much better," he said, "and get a better job."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,796,070.60
Recorded Thursday: 996,842.78

Total: $3,792,913.38
Last year to date: $4,092,049.67

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose Contreras developed myogenic ptosis, which causes his eyelids to droop, after injuries. The procedure to save his vision costs nearly $4,500. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHARITIES (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Catholic Charities

PERSON: Nia-Malika Henderson

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



233 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Ithaca: Cornell Names Law Dean 

BYLINE:  By Karen W. Arenson (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 Cornell University named Stewart J. Schwab, a labor and employment law expert who clerked for Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, as its law school dean. In an announcement Friday, the university said he would succeed Lee Teitelbaum, who served as dean from July 1999 to June 2003. Mr. 
Schwab earned a Ph.D. in economics and a law degree from the University of Michigan, and also clerked for Judge J. Dickson Phillips Jr. of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit before joining Cornell's law school faculty in 1983. He has consulted for the World Bank on the reform of labor and employment laws in parts of the former Yugoslavia and Soviet Union. Karen W. Arenson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (91%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Law Schools

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%) Cornell University 

PERSON: Karen W Arenson; Stewart J Schwab; Lee Teitelbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2003 



234 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: House Votes, Fights and Then Adjourns 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; David Firestone contributed reporting for this article. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
The House slipped back into Washington on Monday to approve an $820 billion catchall spending measure, then adjourned for the year. The brief appearance gave Democrats enough time to accuse Republicans of miserliness for not extending unemployment benefits for thousands of people who will lose them by Christmas.
 "The model in this Congress when it comes to working people ought to be 'bah humbug,' because that's what the record looks like," Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin declared during debate on the spending bill. He complained that extending the benefits "doesn't fit in the Christmas plans for the Scrooges that are running the other party." 
 Democrats say as many as 80,000 people will begin losing their unemployment compensation each week beginning Dec. 21, when a program extending benefits for 13 weeks expires. On Monday afternoon, they staged a rally, surrounded by unemployed workers brandishing coal-filled Christmas stockings.
"It borders on being immoral not to be there for the unemployed at their time of need," Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, said at the rally. "We're not talking about a welfare program or a handout. But as they're talking about Halliburton and defense contracts and the multibillion-dollar pork packages they're passing, can't they have some compassion for the families that have been trying to take care of the kids and trying to get over the holidays?"
House Republican leaders had little to say about the unemployment issue, keeping their public comments focused largely on the spending bill, which Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority leader, called "a fitting end to the legislative session."
The government has routinely extended benefits beyond the standard 26 weeks during tough economic times. But many Republicans, including Mr. DeLay, have argued that with the economy showing signs of recovery, continuing the extended compensation program would be a mistake.
"We've been extending, extending, extending," said Representative Jim McCrery of Louisiana, a senior Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee. "Now that the economy is improving, the jobs picture is looking a little bit brighter, I think we need to hold fast."
The current program, allowing for 13 additional weeks of benefits after the customary 26 have expired, began in March 2002 and has been renewed twice. Republicans declined to continue the program a year ago, and were forced by political pressure to do so when Congress reconvened in January.
Democrats, arguing that there is $20 billion in the unemployment compensation trust fund that cannot be spent for any other purpose, predict a repeat performance next month.
"Unemployment benefits are not a luxury," said Representative Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland. "This is to keep our economy going and to keep families together, and it's scandalous that it's not being extended."
The partisan dispute over unemployment came amid an equally partisan fight over the spending bill, which passed the House by a vote of 242 to 176. The House Republican leadership had called lawmakers back from their holiday recess to approve the measure -- an "omnibus" that is actually seven appropriations bills rolled into one -- in hopes that the Senate would do the same when it convenes, briefly, on Tuesday.
That appears unlikely. If the Senate is to take up the bill, all members must give their consent, and several prominent Democrats, including Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, have said they will object, forcing consideration of the bill to wait until January. In the meantime, much of the government is operating under an emergency measure that keeps agencies running at spending levels of the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30.
"This omnibus represents the values of discipline, innovation and conviction we all treasure," Mr. DeLay told his colleagues moments before they voted on the bill. He said discretionary spending would grow by only 3 percent in 2004, "a titanic achievement in fiscal restraint."
But Democrats have lambasted the way the measure was hastily drafted in the days before Thanksgiving. House and Senate negotiators stripped a provision, favored by a majority of each chamber, that would have blocked a Bush administration plan to revamp overtime rules. The negotiators also watered down a provision, approved by both the House and the Senate, to strengthen limits on the ability of large media networks to acquire more local television stations.
Democrats, and even some Republicans, also complained that the omnibus bill was loaded with special-interest projects. Citizens Against Government Waste, a taxpayer watchdog group, said the bill would "set a new record for pork spending."
For instance, the group said, the bill includes $2 million for a Florida program to provide affordable access to golf for everyone; $1.8 million for an Appalachian fruit laboratory in West Virginia; $447,000 for halibut data collection in Alaska; $325,000 for Salinas, Calif., to build a swimming pool; and $270,000 for potato storage in Madison, Wis.
"This is no way to do business," one fiscal conservative, Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said on the House floor on Monday.
"We as Republicans have decried this practice for years," Mr. Flake added, "and now we seem to have embraced it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Discussing the big spending bill passed by the House yesterday, Tom DeLay, the majority leader, was joined by three Republican colleagues: Representatives Deborah Pryce, Bill Young and Roy Blunt. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (51%) BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: BEN CARDIN (59%); DAVE OBEY (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); JIM MCCRERY (57%); DEBORAH PRYCE (57%); ROY BLUNT (57%) DELAY, TOM (REP)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



235 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Here and in China a White House Topic 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
Wen the Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao, visits the White House on Tuesday, a pressing issue on the American side of the table will be jobs, and the impression, fair or not, that the United States is losing them directly to China.
 But as American leaders in both parties complain about lost manufacturing jobs and push for China to revalue its currency, China has its own serious jobs problem. In recent years, the shock therapy of China's economic restructuring has caused huge layoffs at old, unprofitable state-owned factories, while a crowded countryside has too little usable land and too many farmers. 
 "Unemployment is a severe problem," said Zhong Dajun, who runs an economic research center in Beijing. "It's a problem that is affecting not just ordinary farmers and workers, but even university graduates, who are finding it very difficult to find any work. I don't know if it's going to worsen, but it's bad enough already." 
Factory unemployment is highest in the northeastern Rust Belt, where state-owned enterprises have either closed or downsized. Experts estimate that as many as 200 million farmers and rural workers are either unemployed or underemployed in a country of 1.3 billion people. And one report in the state news media found that only half of college graduates got jobs this year, compared with 95 percent in 1997.
China's economic growth rates remain the envy of the world, but many economists say the continuing boom is still not providing enough new jobs to curb unemployment. With Western academic experts often regarding Chinese government statistics with skepticism, there is debate over the true unemployment rate and the exact number of jobs lost and gained in the past decade. A new International Monetary Fund working paper, however, predicts that China's urban unemployment rate could double to 10 percent by 2007, even with annual economic growth rates of 7 percent. 
For Mr. Wen and his political ally, President Hu Jintao, unemployment is a pressing economic and political issue. The Communist Party, which long ago played down its founding ideology to embrace capitalism, has emphasized rising personal incomes and fast economic growth.
For many Chinese, that promise has been delivered, particularly in large cities like Beijing and Shanghai, where incomes have risen sharply in the past decade. But a divide between rich and poor is growing. Consumption is soaring in big cities, particularly of cars, including luxury sedans like BMW's. Still, peasants can occasionally be seen riding mules on the outskirts of Beijing.
In recent years, some of those cast off by the new economy have vented their anger in labor protests. Many demonstrations are small and peaceful, with fired workers denouncing low severance pay. But some are large and violent. 
Dorothy Solinger, a professor of political science at the University of California at Irvine, said the nondemocratic government had largely kept the protests under control by arresting the leaders and appeasing the mass of workers with small concessions and payments. Still, she said, government leaders worry that political opposition could arise from alliances of different groups of disgruntled workers.
"They are terrified that all these people with grievances could coalesce," Professor Solinger said of the government. She added, "They put a lot of energy into trying to keep the boiling pressure down."
The government is putting some of that energy into trying to develop a nationwide social safety net to replace the discarded cradle-to-grave Socialist system in which workers ate, lived and received health care from their state employer. A pilot program is under way in Liaoning, a Rust Belt province, which provides a range of welfare and health payments for unemployed workers or those laid-off workers termed furloughed. 
Joseph Fewsmith, a professor of international relations and political science at Boston University, wrote in a recent report that the portion of laid-off workers who are able to find another job has dropped to 20 percent in 2002 from 50 percent in 1998, according to the Blue Book of Chinese Society, an annual survey conducted by the Chinese Academy of Social Science.
That same Blue Book report found that China's urban residents ranked unemployment as their second highest concern, after social security. In another opinion poll, a group of provincial officials ranked the income divide as China's biggest problem and unemployment as second. 
The biggest employment losers in China are much like the people losing their once-secure jobs in the United States: older workers, often in their 50's, who have less education and are thus harder to re-employ. These workers are also facing increasing competition as the number of college graduates is expected to jump to about 3 million in 2005 from roughly 2 million this year, according to Southern Breeze, a Guangzhou magazine.
In an interview, Mr. Fewsmith said China's older workers had already borne the brunt of every cycle of modern Chinese history. Citing a current Chinese observation, he said: "They didn't get enough to eat during the famines of the Great Leap Forward. They didn't get an education because of the Cultural Revolution. And they are getting laid off because of the economic reforms."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pharmaceutical workers outside the Shanghai municipal government building on Nov. 5. Layoffs at their company led to demonstrations. (Photo by gence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POLITICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); FARM LABOR (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); TRENDS (71%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); STATISTICS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); SEDANS (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%) UNEMPLOYMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; SHORTAGES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; OLDER WORKERS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL 

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (90%); HU JINTAO (58%) YARDLEY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



236 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Forecasters Expect End to Ad Industry's Recession in 2004

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
The increasing indications that the advertising industry's long recession may be ending were bolstered yesterday by upbeat predictions for 2004 from two leading industry forecasters.
 In other words, though Madison Avenue may not be quite ready to break out into a robust rendition of "Happy Days Are Here Again" -- after all, both forecasters were almost as optimistic in their predictions at this time last year -- it seems the dirgelike performances of "Is That All There Is?" may be coming to an end. 
 The forecasts are the most recent in a host of predictions for robust growth signaling a possible end to the recession that began after the dot-com bubble burst in late 2000. 
The downturn for the industry has been one of its worst on record, including the first decline in American advertising spending in a decade and the largest one-year domestic decline since the Depression.
The forecasters, Robert J. Coen of Universal McCann and John Perriss of ZenithOptimedia, presented their predictions for healthy gains at the opening session of the 31st annual UBS Media Week Conference in Midtown Manhattan. 
While their forecasts are always closely watched, they have taken on added meaning as the advertising industry stumbles through a third consecutive year of substandard results.
Mr. Coen, senior vice president and forecasting director at Universal McCann in New York, a leading media agency that is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, increased his forecast for domestic ad-spending growth for next year to $266.4 billion from a projection of $263.8 billion in June.
By comparison, his estimated final figure for 2003 is $249.2 billion, an increase of 5.2 percent from 2002 -- and also higher, at last, than the record set during the boom of 2000, $247.5 billion.
The new, larger estimate for next year by Mr. Coen would result in a 6.9 percent gain in domestic ad spending compared with this year's, up from his previous forecast of 6.5 percent. 
This year turned into "a pretty good year despite all the uncertainty," Mr. Coen said, adding that he was "pretty optimistic about 2004 for a number of reasons."
Among them, Mr. Coen listed the comeback in spending for ads on the Internet; the potential that the expansion of the American economy is now "sustainable" rather than sputtering along in a stop-and-start fashion; and increased spending by advertisers in significant categories like automobiles, cosmetics, drugs and movies.
As in previous forecasts for ad spending in the United States, Mr. Coen said that he still expected a lag on the local level compared with the national level, primarily because of slower growth in ad revenue for local newspapers -- caused by declining demand for help-wanted classified advertising -- and television stations, caused by declining demand for commercials from struggling retailers.
Nationally, growth in demand for commercial time on TV will significantly outpace growth in demand for ad space in magazines and newspapers, he added.
Looking at ad spending as a percentage of gross domestic product, Mr. Coen estimated a continuing climb from 2.27 percent in 2002 -- the lowest since 1995 -- to 2.28 percent for 2003 and 2.3 percent for 2004. That is still a far cry from the record of 2.52 percent in 2000.
One big factor in Mr. Coen's more positive outlook for 2004 was the so-called quadrennial effect, a stimulative one-two punch delivered by spending on political ads, particularly for the race for the White House, and on campaigns centered on the Summer Olympics.
Mr. Coen, who has been tracking ad-spending trends for more than 50 years, is known for being optimistic. But this time he is being joined in his upward revisions by Lauren Rich Fine, who follows advertising stocks for Merrill Lynch; executives from the newspaper and television industries; and Mr. Perriss, chief executive at the ZenithOptimedia Group in London, a large media-services agency owned by the Publicis Groupe. 
Mr. Perriss, who spoke after Mr. Coen at the opening session, predicted that United States ad spending in 2004 would increase 5.1 percent from 2003. Previously, he had forecast an increase of 5 percent.
"Things have looked a little better, stronger, here in the U.S.," Mr. Perriss said, adding that a primary reason for his more upbeat forecast was the emergence at last of signs of renewed "corporate confidence," rather than indications that consumers, who have been propelling the American economy forward for several years, are still willing to spend.
Lee Westerfield, media analyst at Jefferies & Company in New York, said that even though Mr. Perriss and Mr. Coen agreed American ad spending would increase next year, there was still a large difference between a gain of 5.1 percent and a gain of 6.9 percent.
"The question remains, to what degree" will ad spending rise, Mr. Westerfield said. He added that he leaned "more toward 5 percent than 7 percent" because of a paucity of what he called "new marketing categories to join those in their third years of continued strength such as automotive, cellular telephones and consumer retail."
Indeed, Mr. Perriss said he agreed with Mr. Coen that the recovery in ad spending "has been driven almost entirely by the big advertisers."
As he began his remarks, Mr. Perriss noted that he was "continuing the theme of optimism" first sounded by Mr. Coen. Usually, Mr. Perriss is somewhat more reticent than Mr. Coen to predict upturns and less reticent to forecast downturns. This time, though, they were somewhat more in sync.
"We tend to err on the conservative side," Mr. Perriss said of he and his ZenithOptimedia colleagues, "but if anything, there's quite an upside, particularly in the second half," that could be in the works for 2004.
Mr. Perriss also joined Mr. Coen in citing the benefits of the quadrennial effect, estimating it could account for 17 percent of the gains in ad spending next year. Mr. Perriss added for good measure another stimulus to be found abroad that he joked Americans might not know about: ads to promote a big European soccer tournament next year.
Turning to ad spending growth overseas, Mr. Coen forecast a total for 2004 of $231.9 billion, down slightly from his estimate six months ago of $232.1 billion. That would still represent an increase of 4.5 percent from his final estimate for international ad spending in 2003 of $221.9 billion, up 3.9 percent from 2002.
Mr. Coen's worldwide total for 2004 is $498.3 billion, up 5.8 percent from his estimated final total of $471.1 billion for this year, representing a mere 4.6 percent gain from 2002.
The global total for next year, if it is achieved, would surpass the record set in 2000 of $464.3 billion.
Mr. Perriss's worldwide estimate for 2004 is for an increase of 4.7 percent from this year, much larger than his final estimate for 2003 for a gain of 3.4 percent from 2002. It is also larger than previous estimates for 2004 that called for increases of 1.9 percent to 3.2 percent.
The reason the worldwide gain forecast for next year lags the gain in the United States, Mr. Perriss said, is because of slower growth in Europe, which he estimates will be 3.7 percent ahead of 2003.
Among the other forecasters expecting better results for 2004 is Ms. Fine of Merrill Lynch, who last week predicted that United States ad spending would increase 5.8 percent, compared with her previous forecast of 5.4 percent. One reason for increasing her estimate, she said, was Internet advertising "finally living up to its expectations."
At the UBS conference, David F. Poltrack, executive vice president for research and planning at CBS in New York, part of Viacom, forecast that broadcast TV networks like his would enjoy an increase in ad revenue of 10 percent in 2004 compared with a 3 percent gain this year. The strengthening national economy will help, he said, along with the Summer Olympics.
Also at the conference, James Conaghan, vice president for business analysis and research at the Newspaper Association of America in Vienna, Va., predicted that newspaper ad revenue next year would rise 4.1 percent, compared with a gain of 2.1 percent that he is expecting for 2003. He attributed the increased growth to gains in classified advertising, particularly help-wanted listings.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Anticipating an Ad Resurgence"A widely followed forecaster, Robert J. Coen, is projecting that advertising spending will grow next year at its fastest pace since 2000. Graph tracks advertising spending; Projections since 1995. SELECTED U.S. AD SPENDING, 2004National TV*Projected, billions: $48.6Change from 2003: 11% National newspapersProjected, billions: 7.8Change from 2003: 8 National radioProjected, billions: 4.7Change from 2003: 7 Total localProjected, billions: 100.0Change from 2003: 6 National magazinesProjected, billions: 12.4Change from 2003: 5 *On networks and cable channels, syndicated TV and spot TV commercials.(Source by Universal McCann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); COSMETICS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); TRADE SHOWS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FINANCES; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSAL MCCANN (AD AGENCY); ZENITH OPTIMEDIA GROUP 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; COEN, ROBERT J; PERRISS, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



237 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Cable and Wireless Makes Deal for Quick Exit From U.S. 

BYLINE:  By HEATHER TIMMONS 

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
Cable and Wireless, the British telecommunications company that made a big bet on data services in the United States just before the Internet bubble burst, is now making a cleaner and quicker retreat from that market than many had expected.
 The company said on Monday that it would sell its United States operations to the Gores Technology Group for $125 million -- a fraction of the billions it spent to build its business. As part of the sale, the unit, Cable and Wireless USA, will file for bankruptcy protection in the United States. 
 But the charges that Cable and Wireless said it would take to exit the United States market -- $:300 million, or $519 million -- were half what analysts had expected. The announcement on Monday fostered hopes for a turnaround at Cable and Wireless, a company that was founded in 1872 to supply telecommunication services to Britain's colonies and that stumbled badly in a late 1990's expansion. 
Shares of Cable and Wireless surged as much as 10 percent on the London Stock Exchange. "This frees up management to concentrate on operational issues, and reassures the company's customer base that they're dealing with a secure agent," said Tim Rees, a fund manager with Insight Investment, the asset management arm of the Halifax and Bank of Scotland.
Cable and Wireless changed its business strategy drastically in April after it named Francesco Caio, an Italian telecommunications executive, its new chief executive. Mr. Caio, a former McKinsey management consultant, built Omnitel into Italy's second-biggest cellphone company in the 1990's. 
In June, Cable and Wireless said it would pull out of the United States, but many analysts had expected the retreat to be expensive and lengthy.
Gores, an investment fund based in Los Angeles, specializes in buying troubled technology-related assets cheaply and revamping their businesses. It bought the children's software maker Learning Company from Mattel in 2000 and bid on Global Crossing assets. 
The American unit will be run by John S. Dubel and Eric A. Simonsen, principals of the turnaround firm AlixPartners, who have been named chief executive and chief financial officer, respectively. The American group's previous chief executive, Simon Cunningham, returned to the parent company in London. 
Gores is paying $50 million in cash and a $75 million note for Cable and Wireless America, which has 5,000 corporate customers. That purchase price could be reduced to as little as $50 million if the group does not meet certain revenue, working capital and overhead expense targets. Cable and Wireless's costs include a $100 million loan to the unit it is selling. 
"Today's actions provide a clear path to a much stronger organization," said Mr. Dubel in a statement. Through the sale process, "continuity will be maintained for our customers," he said. 
But some analysts were concerned with the impact the sale would have on the British parent company. A spokesman for Cable and Wireless said it would have to pay to give international customers network services in the United States after the sale. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (87%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (50%); WORKING CAPITAL (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: CABLE & WIRELESS USA INC (92%); GORES GROUP LLC (58%); THE AMERICAN GROUP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CABLE AND WIRELESS PLC; GORES TECHNOLOGY GROUP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3552 TEXTILE MACHINERY (52%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

PERSON: TIMMONS, HEATHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ITALY (69%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



238 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Close Higher as Market Awaits Fed Meeting Today

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks rallied in a late-day buying spurt yesterday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average to a fresh 2003 high, as traders bet that the Federal Reserve would keep interest rates at record lows when it meets today, helping to preserve the economic recovery. Other indexes rose proportionately less. 
 Market activity was generally muted. "The market is higher," said Ozan Akcin, chief strategist at Puglisi & Company, adding that it was on low volume -- "not what we typically see when there's lots of traders participating." 
 "But there's many factors keeping optimism afloat," he said, "coming from recent indicators showing a pickup in the economy."
Although investors apparently do not expect the Federal Reserve to start raising rates, perhaps for months, the wording of the Fed's statement has become a focus in recent weeks. It could drop a promise to keep rates low for "a considerable period," but analysts say it would largely be an exercise in semantics.
Yesterday, the Dow industrial average, a gauge of 30 big blue-chip stocks, rose 102.59 points, or 1.04 percent, to 9,965.27, its highest close since May 28, 2002.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 7.80 points, or 0.73 percent, finishing the day at 1,069.30.
The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index erased earlier losses and ended up 11.03 points, or 0.57 percent, at 1,948.85.
Advancing issues outnumbered those declining on the New York Stock Exchange by about 2 to 1. Volume totaled 1.225 billion shares, down from 1.266 billion on Friday.
Expectations that the Fed would hold interest rates steady helped offset fear about a further slide yesterday by the dollar against other leading currencies.
The dollar dropped in New York to a record low against the euro for the seventh consecutive trading day and to a three-year low against the Japanese yen. Late yesterday afternoon, the euro settled at $1.2228, up from $1.2166 on Friday. Against the yen, the dollar settled at a rate of 107.38, compared with 107.65 on Friday. At its weak point midsession, it traded at 107.14. The British pound also gained in dollar trading, selling in New York at $1.7329, compared with $1.7299 late Friday.
In commodities trading, natural gas rallied on forecasts of a new wave of cold weather in the days ahead. Gas for January delivery rose 76.7 cents in New York, or 12.5 percent, to $6.902 per million British thermal units.
Among actively traded stocks, Boeing rose $1.12, to $39.12. A top officer of the company, which has suffered from scandal accusations and top executives' resignations, said yesterday that the board would be asked next week to formally authorize the new 7E7 aircraft that it hopes to begin delivering in 2008.
Shares of Avon Products dropped, after it forecast quarterly earnings slightly below analysts' estimates. Avon fell $5.40, or nearly 8 percent, to $62.67. It also said its revenue in the United States would fall somewhat below its earlier projections, citing a failure to meet the full demand for gifts and home decorations, and weaker advertising of fragrances.
Steel stocks surged, after a fund manager was quoted as saying that the Bush administration's elimination of imported steel tariffs was not likely to hurt American companies. The manager also expected steel prices to rise sharply in coming months.
U.S. Steel shares surged $1.78, or 6.8 percent, to $27.91.
Shares of Books-A-Million, an Internet bookseller with retail operations in the Southeast, rose 99 cents, or 17.7 percent, to $6.59. The company was listed among those with substantial stock purchases by insiders.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Fall
(By Bloomberg News) -- United States Treasury prices fell yesterday after the government said it would sell $28 billion of 5- and 10-year notes this week to finance the rising budget deficit.
Some investors sold Treasuries to make room in their portfolios for the new securities, which will be auctioned tomorrow and Thursday. Prices fell despite the speculation that the Federal Reserve would indicate an intention to leave interest rates at their current low levels.
By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note fell 9/32 to 99 27/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.27 percent from 4.23 percent on Friday.
The price of the 30-year bond fell 24/32, to 103 27/32. Its yield rose to 5.11 percent from 5.07 percent.
Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.773	99.494	High Rate	0.900	1.000	Investment Rate	0.915	1.023	Low Rate	0.870	0.960	Median Rate	0.895	0.980	Total applied for	$45,348,970	$38,412,743	Accepted	$21,781,674	$21,822,076	Noncompetitive	$1,368,282	$887,828	

Both issues are dated Dec. 11. The three-month bills mature on March 11, 2004 and the six-month bills on June 10, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills since August. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); EURO (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BRITISH POUND (62%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); BOEING CO (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



239 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Investors Deserved More Money,Experts Testify 

BYLINE:  By RITA K. FARRELL 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del., Dec. 8 

 BODY:
Witnesses for the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian testified on Monday that Chrysler shareholders should have been financially compensated for having two members on the DaimlerChrysler board while Daimler-Benz had nine.
 Mr. Kerkorian, who was the biggest shareholder in Chrysler, is suing DaimlerChrysler over the 1998 merger. The chairman of DaimlerChrysler, Jurgen E. Schrempp, will appear in federal court on Tuesday, a lawyer for Mr. Kerkorian's company, the Tracinda Corporation, was heard telling a colleague on Monday. 
 Mr. Kerkorian sued Mr. Schrempp and DaimlerChrysler in 2000 after Mr. Schrempp said in an interview with The Financial Times of London that it had always been his intent to acquire control of Chrysler rather than merge with it as an equal, as Chrysler shareholders had been told before the combination.
Lawyers for Mr. Kerkorian and Tracinda are tryingto persuade Judge Joseph J. Farnan Jr. of Federal District Court that Mr. Schrempp defrauded Chrysler shareholders in the $36 billion deal to avoid paying a premium for what Tracinda asserts was a change-of-control acquisition.
According to two expert witnesses for Tracinda, Chrysler shareholders should have received $6.4 billion to $9.3 billion more in return for having only two Chrysler members on the DaimlerChrysler board. 
Tracinda is seeking at least $1.2 billion for Mr. Kerkorian's stake of 13.74 percent, or 89 million Chrysler shares.
"Chrysler was donating considerably more than they were getting back from the combined entity," one expert witness, H. Conrad Meyer III, an investment banker, testified under questioning by a Tracinda lawyer, James Schreier.
Mr. Meyer said he would have valued the stock-for-stock exchange as a takeover worth $61.50 a share, rather than the $51.00 value agreed to by the Chrysler board. 
"Why give up control for less than the company is worth on a stand-alone basis?" he asked.
A lawyer for DaimlerChrysler, Joseph Sacca, challenged Mr. Meyer's conclusions, saying that even if one assumed that there had been a change of control, Chrysler shareholders received a higher value per share than the highest estimate of the company's banker, Credit Suisse First Boston.
Mr. Sacca said that it was Credit Suisse, and not Mr. Meyer, that conferred with Chrysler directors before drawing more conservative assumptions than Mr. Meyer about value of the deal. Mr. Sacca noted that Chrysler was free to seek other partners because the deal did not have a no-shop provision or a breakup fee.
A second witness for Mr. Kerkorian, Dr. William L. Silber, an economist at New York University, was asked by Judge Farnan whether Mr. Schrempp's remarks in The Financial Times had been a factor in his analysis, Dr. Silber replied, "The analysis does not depend on what he said, but only the number of seats" allotted to each side on the combined DaimlerChrysler board.
When Judge Farnan asked if Dr. Silber could think of any reason for the Chrysler board to vote for a deal that was undervalued by $9 billion, Dr. Silber said, "You want to give them a present? I'd say fine, give them a present." 
A decision is pending on whether a $300 million class-action settlement between Chrysler shareholders, excluding Tracinda, and DaimlerChrysler will be approved by Judge Kent A. Jordan, also of Federal District Court in Delaware. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (91%); WITNESSES (91%); EXPERT WITNESSES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MERGERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); CONSERVATISM (63%) AUTOMOBILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); TRACINDA CORP (94%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (72%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%) SIC6719 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (93%) KERKORIAN, KIRK; FARRELL, RITA KATZ

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%) DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



240 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Miscellany

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
 Local and national advertising revenue for radio networks and stations fell 1 percent in October, the Radio Advertising Bureau in New York reported, compared with October 2002. 
For the first 10 months, combined ad revenue is up 2 percent compared with the period a year earlier, the bureau reported. 
 The Interpublic Group of Companies, New York, sold all 11.7 million of its shares in Taylor Nelson Sofres, London, for $40.7 million. Interpublic received the shares in July, plus about $400 million in cash, when it sold its NFO WorldGroup research division to Taylor Nelson.
Rubin Postaer & Associates, Santa Monica, Calif., was renamed RPA. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); RADIO ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (88%) RADIO; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (72%); TNS NORTH AMERICA (57%); RUBIN POSTAER & ASSOCIATES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: RADIO ADVERTISING BUREAU (91%) RADIO ADVERTISING BUREAU; INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC; TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES; RUBIN POSTAER & ASSOCIATES; RPA (AD AGENCY) 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (72%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



241 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Time Warner Deal Raises Ante In Cable'sBid for Phone Market 

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

 BODY:
Time Warner Cable said yesterday that it had signed a deal with Sprint and MCI to help it send telephone calls over lines once used only to deliver television programming. The move escalates the clash between the cable and the traditional telephone industries, and shows how quickly cable companies are transforming themselves into all-purpose telecommunications providers.
 Internet technology has made it possible for the cable companies to use their lines -- which reach nearly every American home -- to deliver telephone service, as well as high-speed Internet connections. Time Warner said it intended to offer telephone service by the end of next year in major markets in most, if not all, of the 27 states it serves. 
 Several cable companies already offer phone service using an older technology, though worldwide the number is fewer than eight million subscribers combined. 
The newer technology, known as voice over Internet protocol, sends phone calls as digital data over the Internet. Customers using the service would plug regular phones into modems connected to the cable wire in their homes. They would be able to keep their existing phone numbers, and the Internet-based calls could be received on regular phones. Refinements of this technology over the last year allow cable companies to offer phone service in more markets more quickly.
In addition to Time Warner Cable, the cable giants Comcast, Cox Communications and Cablevision have started deployment of Internet phone services, with plans to expand those services in 2004.
Time Warner Cable, the second-largest cable company in the country, with 11 million subscribers, entered the phone market last May with service in Portland, Me., signing up 8,000 subscribers, who pay $39.95 to $49.95 for unlimited local and domestic long-distance calling. 
"Our plan, by the end of next year, is to be in most, if not all, of our markets," said Glenn Britt, chief executive of Time Warner Cable, a division of Time Warner.
The move comes as Time Warner has sought to shed huge amounts of debt and mine new sources of revenue. The development of a telephone service could be particularly significant because the cable division already is Time Warner's "biggest profit center," said Dennis Leibowitz, a general partner at Act II Partners, a media and telecommunications hedge fund based in New York. "It's the growth element" of Time Warner, he said.
Mr. Britt said the Internet technology made possible the rapid roll-out of the service and was less expensive than the more conventional cable-phone technology, called circuit switch technology. Industry analysts said those cost savings could be passed on to consumers in the form of lower phone bills.
Under the deal announced yesterday, Time Warner Cable will pay Sprint and MCI to carry the telephone traffic from its cable network across a larger telephone network, and deliver the calls to the receiving numbers. The companies did not disclose terms of the deal.
Earlier efforts by cable companies to deploy telephone service over cable lines had mixed results. AT&T Cable Systems, for example, generated interest in cable phone service in the late 1990's, but the company was acquired last year by Comcast, the nation's largest cable company. At that time, Comcast said it would not expand that business but would focus on making sure it was profitable.
Comcast has said it is taking a cautious approach to the new technology, noting that despite its promise, Internet telephony is in its early stages. "We want to work the kinks out, then take it larger," said Sam Chernak, a vice president at Comcast. 
Cablevision, the sixth-largest cable company, began offering Internet telephone services in late September, and by mid-November, it was available to more than four million homes in Connecticut, New York and parts of New Jersey. 
Cablevision offers its service only to its high-speed Internet customers, charging them an additional $34.95 a month for unlimited calling in the United States and Canada. Analysts said they were impressed with the company's first marketing push.
Mr. Leibowitz said the cable industry's move into phone service had long been anticipated. "The idea of rebuilding the cable world was to offer voice, data and telephony -- and telephony has been the missing piece," he said. "For economic and competitive reasons, they are now ready" to offer it.
But only recently has Internet technology become refined enough that the cable companies felt they could offer reception quality comparable to that offered by traditional telephone companies. The cable companies say they have turned the corner, and they intend to prove it in the coming months.
Cox Digital Telephone, a division of Cox Communications, plans to begin its first test of Internet-based phone service in Roanoke, Va., in the next few weeks. That roll-out is viewed as significant because the Atlanta-based cable company is considered a leader in pushing the boundaries of the cable business. Cox already sells phone services to around a million customers using the older circuit switch technology. What Cox's experience shows is that a cable provider can successfully take on traditional telephone companies. In Omaha, 45 percent of Cox's cable customers now subscribe to its telephone service, and in Orange County, Calif., that figure is 55 percent. 
This summer, the Yankee Group, a market research group, projected that the number of customers using voice-over-Internet-protocol telephone service would be around 220,000 worldwide by the end of 2004. But Lindsay Schroth, an analyst with the group, said that the number could well double, in light of the aggressive moves by the cable companies.
"Every year they told us, 'next year is the year.' It was all a pipe dream for a while," she said. "But it has really shocked me the developments we've had in the last four months." 
The development also comes amid an increasingly chaotic and competitive landscape for traditional phone companies. Mobile phone providers are offering consumers an alternative to land-line phones. Wireless operators and start-up technology companies are also developing new ways to transmit data and voice traffic, cutting phone lines out of the picture. 
But phone companies are not sitting idly by as their turf comes under attack. In fact, they have been more aggressive in defending their share of the high-speed Internet market, where the cable companies took an early lead. 
And the phone companies say they are prepared to offer Internet-based phone service, if that is what customers demand. Eric Rabe, a spokesman for Verizon, said that cable companies were entering a highly competitive voice market.
"If they want to jump in, they'll be the 840th and 841st competitors," he said, adding that the cable companies will be focusing on their existing customer base, "which means, at this point, it is very small for them."
Mr. Britt of Time Warner also expressed caution about how quickly the cable companies could challenge phone companies that have the overwhelming share of the local telephone market. "They are very large and they are good competitors," he said. "They're going to be around for a long time."
But as Mr. Leibowitz of Act II Partners noted, the cable companies really have no choice but to get into the voice market, because phone companies are pushing into the data and video markets.
"They realize they need to do it now, and they need to do it quickly," he said, and to compete, major telecommunications competitors "are ultimately going to have to be in every business, everywhere -- including mobile."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BROADBAND (76%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TELEVISION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (92%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (90%); COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER CABLE; SPRINT CORP; MCI COMMUNICATIONS INC; COMCAST CORP; COX COMMUNICATIONS CORP; CABLEVISION CORP 

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (92%); TWC (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%) SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TV SERVICES; 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (76%); MAINE, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



242 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
McDONALD'S REPORTS STRONG GAINS IN REVENUE

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 The McDonald's Corporation extended the recovery in its once-slumping restaurants to an eighth consecutive month yesterday, reporting a double-digit gain in sales at stores open at least a year in the United States and a modest improvement in Europe, its second-biggest market. 
Sales from the more than 30,000 McDonald's-brand restaurants worldwide jumped 14.9 percent from a year earlier as the company continued to benefit from new products, new marketing, a strengthened economy and the dollar's weakness overseas. Sales from McDonald's restaurants open more than a year rose 6.4 percent from a year earlier. Most notably, sales climbed 10.2 percent at restaurants in the United States, the third consecutive month that growth exceeded 10 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (88%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (88%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%) RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY; SALES 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%)

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



243 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: The Mysterious Stranger 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BROOKS; Paul Krugman is on vacation.; E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
My moment of illumination about Howard Dean came one day in Iowa when I saw him lean into a crowd and begin a sentence with, "Us rural people. . . ."
 Dean grew up on Park Avenue and in East Hampton. If he's a rural person, I'm the Queen of Sheba. Yet he said it with conviction. He said it uninhibited by any fear that someone might laugh at or contradict him. 
 It was then that I saw how Dean had liberated himself from his past, liberated himself from his record and liberated himself from the restraints that bind conventional politicians. He has freed himself to say anything, to be anybody.
Other candidates run on their biographies or their records. They keep policy staff from their former lives, and they try to keep their policy positions reasonably consistent.
But Dean runs less on biography than any other candidate in recent years. When he began running for president, he left his past behind, along with the encumbrances that go with it. As governor of Vermont, he was a centrist Democrat. But the new Dean who appeared on the campaign trail -- a jarring sight for the Vermonters who knew his previous self -- is an angry maverick.
The old Dean was a free trader. The new Dean is not. The old Dean was open to Medicare reform. The new Dean says Medicare is off the table. The old Dean courted the N.R.A.; the new Dean has swung in favor of gun control. The old Dean was a pro-business fiscal moderate; the new Dean, sounding like Ralph Nader, declares, "We've allowed our lives to become slaves to the bottom line of multinational corporations all over the world."
The philosopher George Santayana once observed that Americans don't bother to refute ideas -- they just leave them behind. Dean shed his upper-crust WASP self, then his centrist governor self, bursting onto the national scene as a mysterious stranger who comes out of nowhere to battle corruption.
The newly liberated Dean is uninhibited. A normal person with no defense policy experience would not have the chutzpah to say, "Mr. President, if you'll pardon me, I'll teach you a little about defense." But Dean says it. A normal person, with an eye to past or future relationships, wouldn't compare Congress to "a bunch of cockroaches." Dean did it.
The newly liberated Dean doesn't worry about having a coherent political philosophy. There is a parlor game among Washington pundits called How Liberal Is Howard Dean? One group pores over his speeches, picks out the things no liberal could say and argues that he's actually a centrist. Another group picks out the things no centrist could say and argues that he's quite liberal. 
But the liberated Dean is beyond categories like liberal and centrist because he is beyond coherence. He'll make a string of outspoken comments over a period of weeks -- on "re-regulating" the economy or gay marriage -- but none of them have any relation to the others. When you actually try to pin him down on a policy, you often find there is nothing there. 
For example, asked how we should proceed in Iraq, he says hawkishly, "We can't pull out responsibly." Then on another occasion he says dovishly, "Our troops need to come home," and explains, fantastically, that we need to recruit 110,000 foreign troops to take the place of our reserves. Then he says we should not be spending billions more dollars there. Then he says again that we have to stay and finish the job.
At each moment, he appears outspoken, blunt and honest. But over time he is incoherent and contradictory. 
He is, in short, a man unrooted. This gives him an amazing freshness and an exhilarating freedom.
Everybody talks about how the Internet has been key to his fund-raising and organization. Nobody talks about how it has shaped his persona. On the Internet, the long term doesn't matter, as long as you are blunt and forceful at that moment. On the Internet, a new persona is just a click away. On the Internet, everyone is loosely tethered, careless and free. Dean is the Internet man, a string of exhilarating moments and daring accusations. 
The only problem is that us rural folk distrust people who reinvent themselves. Many of us rural folk are nervous about putting the power of the presidency in the hands of a man who could be anyone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); MEDICARE (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (65%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); GUN CONTROL (50%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%) BROOKS, DAVID; DEAN, HOWARD (DR)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



244 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: COMMERCE; 
With More Money to Spend, Middle-Class Iraqis Go Shopping for Luxury Goods

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
They were a father and son shopping for a car for the young man, a family ritual as common as any in the United States.
 It was unfolding on a recent evening here, though, to the cadence of distant gunfire and explosions. Aadel Kadhem, 43, and his 23-year-old son, Mohammed, walked around a pair of black BMW's, opening the doors, staring through the windows. Aadel Kadhem paints automobiles for a living, and his income has risen tenfold since the fall of Saddam Hussein's government, he said, allowing him to squirrel away $3,000 for a car for his son. 
 "The situation is still tight for us, but we have a bit to play with," Mr. Kadhem said. "In the past, the government wanted to fight against the citizens; they wanted this country to be underdeveloped. But my income now is much stronger than before."
Jamal Nasir, the owner of the car shop, the Black Gold Company, looked on with a glint in his eye and a smile on his lips. "Because of small salaries before, many people couldn't buy cars," he said. "Now I sell to all sectors of society. It's the wheel of life. Everybody's working, getting better salaries than before."
Well, not exactly everybody. About 60 percent of Iraqis have no jobs; those who do are often living in fear because of the lack of security. Still, a swath of middle-class society -- particularly government workers like doctors, teachers and administrators -- has experienced a tremendous jump in income since the American-led occupation began. That is driving an exultant boom in demand for luxury goods -- cars, televisions, fine clothing, expensive perfumes. It has also heightened fears of crime among the beneficiaries because street robberies remain rampant here.
Import tariffs have been scrapped until the end of the year; the United Nations trade embargo is gone. Stores have sprung up all over the city. Before the American-led invasion in March, for example, people in Baghdad bought cars from two large bazaars; now they go to dozens of small shops like Mr. Nasir's. Large trucks carrying used automobiles are a common sight at border crossings; a spokesman for the Oil Ministry estimated that 250,000 cars had entered Iraq since spring.
Mr. Nasir, who before the invasion sold clothes and small household appliances, said he now bought automobiles wholesale at a market in Amman, the Jordanian capital. Under Mr. Hussein's rule, a car bought outside the country for $4,000 would be slapped with a $2,500 tariff, driving up the retail price, Mr. Nasir said. Cars, especially luxury German imports like BMW's and Mercedeses, were not affordable.
Now, prices have dropped and the luxury brands are the most sought after, Mr. Nasir said as he stood in front of two BMW's he hoped to sell for $5,000 and $11,000.
His shop is on Outer Karada Street, one of Baghdad's busiest commercial streets. People flock there now to buy washing machines, television sets and satellite dishes. 
A reporter who interviewed 85 store owners on a half-mile stretch found that 33 were selling satellite dishes and receivers, up from just two before the invasion. The dishes were banned by Mr. Hussein, who wanted to keep Iraqis isolated. People caught selling dishes were sent to prison for six months. Demand exploded as soon as Mr. Hussein was ousted.
"The satellite business nowadays in Baghdad, it's the best business we can choose," said Aysar Abdullah, one of about 10 satellite equipment wholesalers in Baghdad. 
"The first month was unbelievable," he said. "Two trucks would deliver equipment to my store in the morning. By evening, all my goods would be gone."
Twelve-foot towers of hundreds of black stands for satellite dishes surround Mr. Abdullah's store. Customers dart in and out, rolling gray Syrian-made dishes. Mr. Abdullah estimated that he sold 500 dishes a day to retailers and 200 to 300 a week to individuals.
"We were deprived of many things before," said Luay Hasoon, a 54-year-old shopper whose government pension has jumped to $20 a month, from $2 a month. 
"Now it's up to one's mind whether to buy something or not," she said. "It's a civilized thing." 
Down the street, another retired government worker, this one enjoying a sixfold pension increase, was browsing through Turkish suits and leather jackets.
"Now I want to buy a Japanese car," the shopper, Abdul Kazim al-Janabi, said with a grin, standing by a case of $65 bottles of Givenchy perfume.
The store owner, Loay Hamandi, told a visitor that he was preparing to fly to the Netherlands for discussions with a clothing company, and that he had just returned from a trip to Turkey, where he had visited a factory about 40 miles outside of Istanbul. He described the business environment: no import taxes or bribes, and no fear of government officials suspicious of his foreign dealings.
"With Saddam's security and Saddam's staff, if you had any connections with other countries, they might detain you, even if you had done nothing," Mr. Hamandi said.
But Mr. Hamandi did not have kind words about the American occupiers in Iraq. Other store owners and shoppers said they felt the same way. Better incomes amount to little, they said, without security on the streets.
Mr. Hamandi said that he was afraid to stay open late at night and that the stores on his block were paying $50 a month each to hire five armed guards. Mr. Abdullah, the satellite dish salesman, said armed bandits had tried to rob two of his delivery trucks.
"Money beside humiliation means nothing; money beside this security situation also means nothing," he said, as four guards milled around his store. 
"Let the Americans take all the profits I have," he said. "But let me feel secure again. Let me send my 9-year-old son to school without an escort."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqis unloading a BMW in Baghdad after its arrival from Jordan. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson/Aurora, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (86%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (86%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORISM (72%); TRENDS (70%); CLOTHING LABELS (68%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (63%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; TELEVISION; SATELLITES; TERRORISM; INCOME 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (85%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (85%); BMW (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (75%) WONG, EDWARD; HUSSEIN, SADDAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); AMMAN, JORDAN (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); JORDAN (92%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



245 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: No Cheer for the Unemployed 

 BODY:
With a perverse sense of holiday timing, President Bush and the Republican leaders of Congress are blithely accepting the expiration of emergency benefits badly needed by the nation's long-term unemployed. This vital program ends on Dec. 21, crushing the hopes of an estimated 80,000 or more jobless Americans each week who will find their state benefits expiring. 
The emergency benefits, which provide 13 extra weeks of help, were approved by Congress early last year as hard-core unemployment became entrenched. The problem continues today as the economic recovery shows only a meager turnaround in job creation.
 The pity is that members of the House and Senate are making drop-by visits to the Capitol this week to attend to the pork-packed, deficit-stoking spending bills that still gag their agenda. There is time for some holiday partying in their brief visits, but no time for the families about to slip deeper into their own spirals of deficit spending. Democratic attempts to raise the issue are being brushed aside. Republicans are missing the opportunity, so rare now in Washington, to approve porkless, deficit-free spending: the cost of the emergency help has already been paid into the federal unemployment fund from working Americans' paychecks. 
 President Bush, playing White House host for holiday visits from the solons, shows no sign of prodding his Capitol leaders into emergency action. Not with the House Republican leader, Tom DeLay, pronouncing the nation's unemployment ills on the wane. In truth, by the time Congress returns to business six weeks from now, an estimated half-million more unemployed will have missed out on the federal benefits. They will join a backlog of the more than two million long-term unemployed, so out of sight and out of mind during the Republicans' holiday recess. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (55%) LABOR; EDITORIALS; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



246 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

Bush Issues Stern Warning On Taiwanese Sovereignty
The Bush administration issued an unusually strong warning to Taiwan not to hold a referendum that could fuel the island's independence movement. The warning is meant to avoid a crisis in Asia while American forces are busy elsewhere. A1

Russian Elections Criticized
International observers criticized Russia's parliamentary elections as a step backward in the country's democratic transition, only moments after President Vladimir V. Putin had defended them. A10

Boom in Luxury Market in Iraq
A swath of middle-class society has experienced a jump in income since the American-led occupation began, a trend that is driving a boom in demand for luxury goods. A14

An American soldier was killed in Mosul while standing guard at one of the lines of cars backed up at filling stations because of a gas shortage. A14

World Court May Rule on Barrier
The United Nations General Assembly approved a resolution asking the International Court of Justice to rule on the legality of the barrier that Israel is building in the West Bank. A8

Indonesia Questions U.S. Policy
The foreign minister of Indonesia said the American policy in Iraq may have made the world more dangerous, rather than making it safer, as the Bush administration says. A14

Afghan Airstrike Missed Target
The American military admitted it may not have succeeded in killing a Taliban suspect in the Saturday air assault that left nine children and one man dead. It also announced it had 2,000 soldiers on its biggest ever operation against Taliban and Al Qaeda elements across a wide swath of the country. A10

Terrorists Convicted in Greece
A court in Athens found 15 members of a radical group guilty of a string of assassinations, car bombings and rocket attacks that stretched over nearly three decades. A3

NATIONAL A20-28

Bush Signs Bill Offering Prescription-Drug Benefit
President Bush signed into law the legislation giving the elderly prescription-drug coverage under Medicare and changing the Medicare system so that private insurers will have a much bigger role. A1

Gore Expected to Endorse Dean
Al Gore, the former vice president, plans to endorse Howard Dean for president, aides to both men said. The move hastened Dr. Dean's evolution from a maverick into the Democratic establishment's candidate. A1

Janklow, Convicted, Resigns
Representative Bill Janklow, 64, resigned after being convicted on all charges in an August wreck that left a motorcyclist dead on a country road in South Dakota. He could face up to 11 years in jail. A1

Chaplain on Trial for Adultery
The military opened its case against Capt. James J. Yee, the Muslim chaplain who was once billed by Pentagon officials as part of an espionage plot at Guantanamo Bay, with charges involving keeping pornography on his government computer and having an extramarital affair. A20

Malvo's Psychologist Testifies
Lee B. Malvo, the younger defendant in the Washington-area sniper attacks, told a psychologist that his confessing to almost all the shootings had been a lie intended to protect the real gunman, the psychologist testified at Mr. Malvo's trial. A20

Intelligence Overhaul Urged
Two ex-government officials testified before the independent Sept. 11 commission to urge an overhaul of domestic intelligence. A24

EDUCATION

Drug Sweep Leads to Outrage
A drug sweep at a high school in Goose Creek, S.C., in which police drew guns on students, handcuffed them and made them kneel, has set off protests in the community. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Overtime Spending Grows Despite Efforts to Limit It
Overtime spending continues to rise despite a successful campaign by the Bloomberg administration to cut the number of overtime hours worked by the city employees, an analysis of budget figures shows. A1

6-Day Bear Hunt Begins
Hunters tromped through the snow in search of what could be as many as 3,200 black bears thought to be in northwest New Jersey. B1

City and Sharpton Settle
New York City agreed to pay the Rev. Al Sharpton $200,000 to settle his 12-year-old lawsuit stemming from his stabbing before a rally in Brooklyn in 1991. B1

Neediest Cases B5

FLIGHT G1-10

FASHION B9

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Vaccine Opposition in Africa
Opposition to vaccinations against polio by some Islamic leaders in northern Nigeria has led to the spread of the disease to neighboring West African countries, jeopardizing the World Health Organization plan to eradicate it by the end of 2005. F5

Health & Fitness F5

SPORTS D1-8

ARTS E1-12

Scramble to Send Out Films
Hollywood studios scrambled to send out videotapes of their best movies after a judge's decision to nullify a distribution ban and before new legal action could stop them. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Time Warner in Phone Deal
Time Warner Cable signed a deal with Sprint and MCI to help it send telephone calls over lines previously used only for television programming, escalating the clash between the cable and telephone industries. A1

MFS Company Under Scrutiny
MFS Investment Management, under fire from the S.E.C., says it allowed privileged clients to trade quickly in and out of its biggest funds while otherwise restricting the practice. C1

The mutual fund whistle-blower has revealed herself: Noreen Harrington, a former executive at the Hartz Group, the investment arm of the billionaire Stern Family. C1

Advertising Slump May End
The increasing indications that the advertising industry's long recession may finally be ending were bolstered by upbeat predictions for 2004 from two leading industry forecasters. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES A29

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: How not to pick a flu vaccine; saving the village; an end run around Miranda; no cheer for the unemployed.

Column: David Brooks.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B4
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); TERRORISM (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); TALIBAN (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (86%); MEDICARE (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); GAS STATIONS (77%); ASSASSINATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LUXURY GOODS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); INSURANCE (70%); DEATHS (69%); AL-QAEDA (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); APPROVALS (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (66%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); PORNOGRAPHY (60%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); ESPIONAGE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: AL GORE (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (68%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); TAIWAN (94%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); INDONESIA (92%); GREECE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); NETHERLANDS (77%); CUBA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



247 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Time Warner Cable Enters Deal With Phone Providers
Time Warner Cable signed a deal with Sprint and MCI to help it send telephone calls over lines once used only to deliver television programming.
 The move signals an escalating clash between cable and telephone industries, and shows how quickly cable companies are transforming themselves into all-purpose telecommunications providers. Time Warner said it intended to offer telephone service by the end of next year in major markets in most, if not all, of the 27 states it serves. Page A1. 

Exchanges Defend Wild Trading
The battle escalated over a computer system that went crazy last week, spewing out unintentional orders to buy and sell millions of shares of Corinthian Colleges, which is listed on the Nasdaq stock market but traded on other markets. The Nasdaq and the Pacific Stock Exchange traded accusations that the other had acted irresponsibly and asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to intervene. Floyd Norris: Market Place. C11.

I.R.S. Says Agents Were Harassed
Nearly 2,000 bogus misconduct complaints against I.R.S. agents were filed as part of a long-running fraud by a group that calls itself a Christian ministry to obstruct the federal income tax laws, the Justice Department said in papers filed in a court in Florida. The Justice Department said the false complaints were made to intimidate tax agents. C4.

Bush Signs Medicare Measure
President Bush signed into law the legislation giving the elderly prescription drug coverage under Medicare for the first time and changing the system so that private insurance companies will have a much bigger role. A1.

Despite Mr. Bush's prediction that most elderly people would benefit from the new law, federal health officials said they faced immense challenges in meeting the high expectations of Medicare beneficiaries. A1.

House Approves Spending Bill
The House slipped back into Washington to approve a $820 billion catch-all spending measure before adjourning for the year. A28.

The House unanimously agreed to Senate changes in a bill that would thwart junk commercial e-mail messages, and sent it to President Bush for his signature. C10.

Late Rally Propels Blue Chips
Stocks rallied in a late-day buying spurt, sending the blue-chip Dow to a fresh 2003 high. The Dow rose 102.59 points, or 1.04 percent, to 9,965.27. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 7.80 points, or 0.73 percent, to 1,069.30. The Nasdaq erased earlier losses and ended up 11.03 points, or 0.57 percent, at 1,948.85. C11.

China and U.S. Tackle Jobs Issues
When the Chinese premier, Wen Jiabao, left, visits President Bush at the White House today, a pressing issue on the American side will be jobs, and the impression, fair or not, that the United States is losing them directly to China. But China has its own serious unemployment problem. In recent years, the shock therapy of its economic revamping has caused huge layoffs at old, unprofitable state-owned factories, while a crowded countryside has too little usable land and too many farmers. A18.

Cable and Wireless Sells U.S. Unit
Cable and Wireless of Britain said it would sell its United States operations to the Gores Technology Group for $125 million -- a fraction of the billions it spent to build its business. The unit, Cable and Wireless America, will file for bankruptcy protection in the United States. World Business, Section W.

An Airborne Car Service
Eclipse, a maker of small jets, hopes to offer something like an airborne car service, meant to carry a few passengers on fairly short routes. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C9.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,965.27 up 102.59Nasdaq composite -- 1,948.85 up 11.0310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.27% up 0.04The euro -- $1.2228 up 0.0062The dollar -- 406.25 yen down 0.35 Graph tracks Corinthian Colleges' share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MEDICARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); MISCONDUCT (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (73%); INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); AGING (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); INCOME TAX (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (90%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (56%); NYSE ARCA INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (90%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%) SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TV SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); WEN JIABAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



248 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: U.S. ASKS TAIWAN TO AVOID A VOTE PROVOKING CHINA 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
The Bush administration issued an unusually strong warning to Taiwan on Monday not to hold a referendum that could fuel the island's independence movement. But Taiwan rejected the move hours later.
 The pressure on the democratically elected government of the island appeared to be an effort to quell a growing political storm in Asia before it requires American intervention. 
 The warning came just a day before President Bush is to meet China's new prime minister, Wen Jiabao, at the White House. 
All three parties -- China, Taiwan and the United States -- are engaged in a delicate dance that involves a potent mix of international diplomacy and domestic politics. Taiwan's president is up for re-election next year, the Bush administration is relying heavily on Chinese help to defuse the North Korean nuclear crisis and stem the growing trade deficit, and China is trying to leverage its growing economic and military power for advantage against Taiwan. 
Administration officials insisted that there was no change in the fundamental one-China policy, and the State Department in recent weeks had said it opposed steps that could lead to independence for Taiwan.
But the warning on Monday was unusually blunt, and officials went further by saying they were abandoning three decades of deliberate ambiguity about how far either China or Taiwan could go in the maneuvering for the upper hand on the issue of reunification or independence.
"What you're seeing here is the dropping of the ambiguity for both sides because we cannot sort of imply to the Taiwan side that we're sort of agnostic towards moves toward Taiwan independence," a senior administration official told reporters on Monday. "But at the same time, we've got to makeit clear to the Chinese that this is not a green light for you to contemplate the use of force or coercion against Taiwan." 
The statements on Monday will be broadly interpreted as a warning to Taiwan that Washington opposes not only any declaration of independence, but even political discussion or a referendum on the subject. That is bound to anger pro-Taiwan members of Congress and neo-conservatives who had been celebrating Mr. Bush's recent declaration that spreading democracy is the core mission of his foreign policy.
Late last month, according to Taiwanese and American officials, the White House sent the director of Asian affairs on the National Security Council, James Moriarty, to deliver a face-to-face caution to Taiwan's president, Chen Shui-bian, about his plans to hold a referendum in March calling for China to withdraw ballistic missiles aimed at Taiwan. Mr. Moriarty carried a letter from President Bush, according to one administration official, after the White House concluded that the Taiwanese president was "pushing the envelope."
Mr. Chen, who is facing re-election, has insisted that the referendum will not center on independence. But clearly the missile question is a rough substitute for mention of that word, and Beijing has expressed alarm about the precedent of holding a vote on any delicate political topic.
Taiwanese officials said they had not been notified of any change in the American handling of the tensions between Taiwan and China.
Mr. Bush is expected to deliver to Mr. Wen a warning against any Chinese contemplation of coercion of Taiwan. 
The prime minister is expected to discuss the range of Chinese-American relations, from North Korea to weapons proliferation to Washington's demand that China let its currency float to reduce its huge trade surplus with the United States.
Since arriving in the United States on Sunday, Mr. Wen has reflected a predictably hard line on Taiwan. Yet he has been more muted than the Chinese military officers who warned last week that Taiwan was facing an "abyss of war" and that China would accept any economic penalty to prevent Taiwan from using the referendum to advance the independence movement.
Such declarations leave Mr. Bush in a delicate position on an issue that he, like his predecessors, has tried to finesse. His recent calls for support of democracies around the world, especially the Middle East, leave him in a poor position to condemn freely held voting on Taiwan, a place where authoritarianism has given way to a burgeoning democracy.
But relations with China have never been more crucial. Beijing's intervention on the North Korea crisis could well mean the difference between the diplomatic settlement and a military confrontation. China's cooperation on economic issues may prove important in the presidential election, where surging Chinese imports are a major issue in manufacturing states.
When he first came to office, Mr. Bush appeared far more in Taiwan's camp. In April 2001, before he learned the nuances of the diplomatic language surrounding the Taiwan issue, he said in a television interview that the United States had an obligation to provide "whatever it took" to help Taiwan defend itself.
He caught himself in an interview later the same day, reminding Taiwan that he also supported the one-China policy, implying that Washington would not feel obligated to defend Taiwan from the military consequences of a declaration of the island's independence. 
But Mr. Bush also authorized record arms sales to Taiwan to counter the threat from China, though Taiwan has purchased relatively little, American officials say.
Mr. Bush's aides say they are trying to avoid a repeat of 1996, when China fired missiles into Taiwan's shipping lanes in an effort to intimidate voters from choosing a president viewed as moving toward independence. President Clinton ordered American warships to the edge of the straits -- but not inside them -- to make clear that America could intercede if there was an overt attack on Taiwan. China backed away.
But Washington has maintained a policy of "strategic ambiguity" about how far it would go to defend Taiwan, especially if Taiwan itself provoked the mainland. In the view of many in the administration, that is the risk in Mr. Chen's election-season move. Mr. Bush, of course, is facing an election of his own, and in the words of one aide, "isn't shopping around for another international crisis" next year.
So while the administration insists that its policy is not changing, experts see its attitude undergoing a major shift. "The Bush administration has moved away from the traditional U.S. insistence on 'peaceful means' toward a new preference for a specific end, which is securing the status quo," said Kurt Campbell, an Asia expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
Conservatives who have long supported Taiwan expressed some sympathy with Mr. Bush today.
"This has been handled very badly on both sides," said Larry M. Wortzel, the vice president for foreign policy at the Heritage Foundation. "The message to Taiwan had to be that if you are conscious of the commitments of U.S. troops in Iraq, you don't rattle your sabers right now."
At the same time, Mr. Wortzel said, he is confident that if push comes to shove, "the U.S. is not going to allow a democracy it nurtured for 50 years to fall to a Communist state."

	 	 		--------------------	 	
Taiwan Says It Will Hold Vote
(By The New York Times), HONG KONG, Tuesday, Dec. 9 -- Taiwanese officials said Tuesday that they planned to proceed with a referendum in March despite White House criticism, and called for the United States to respect and support the island's democracy.
President Chen Shui-bian announced Friday that he would hold a referendum on March 20 calling for China to withdraw all missiles aimed at Taiwan and to renounce the use of force against the island. A senior administration official in Washington said Monday that the United States did not want the referendum held and suggested that it might reduce Taiwan's security by antagonizing China, instead of enhancing it.
But Joseph Wu, President Chen's deputy chief of staff for foreign policy, said Taiwan was determined to proceed with the vote.
The referendum "shouldn't be considered as anything provocative," he said in a telephone interview. "The missile threat has been there and is increasing."
Taiwan estimates that China has 496 ballistic missiles within range of Taiwan, a number that grows by 50 to 75 a year, Mr. Wu said.
He insisted that Taiwan was not trying to alter the status quo with China, which regards Taiwan as a renegade province. Taiwanese officials are in regular contact with American officials, he said, adding, "We hope the democracy here in Taiwan is honored."
President Chen is up for re-election on March 20, and the referendum has been interpreted as a way to increase the turnout of his political base, which favors greater political separation from the mainland.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China, center, at the New York Stock Exchange yesterday with its interim chairman, John Reed, right, and Michael LaBranche, left, chairman of LaBranche & Company, which trades shares of China Petroleum. To Mr. Wen's left is his foreign minister, Le Zhaoxing. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TRENDS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFERENDUMS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JACK REED (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; WEN JIABAO (PRIME MIN); CHEN SHUI-BIAN (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) TAIWAN; CHINA; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



249 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: GORE TO ENDORSE DEAN, REMAKING DEMOCRATIC RACE 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JODI WILGOREN; Adam Nagourney reported from Washington for this article, and Jodi Wilgoren reported from New York. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
Al Gore has decided to endorse Howard Dean for president, aides to the men said Monday, a move that rocked the Democratic presidential field and hastened Dr. Dean's evolution from a long-shot maverick to a leading candidate of the Democratic establishment.
 Mr. Gore will announce his endorsement of Dr. Dean on Tuesday at events in Harlem and in Iowa, Democrats close to both men said. 
 The decision by Mr. Gore, the former vice president who opened the floodgates to this crowded Democratic nomination contest by declaring last December that he would not run again, stunned Democrats and emboldened the Dean campaign, which chartered three jets to carry Dr. Dean, Mr. Gore and dozens of reporters to Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
"This is huge," said Donna Brazile, who was Mr. Gore's campaign manager in 2000. "It gives Dean what Dean has been missing most: stature. Gore is a major-league insider, somebody with enormous credibility that Democrats respect, who can rally the grass roots and who's been speaking very strongly in the last few months about the direction he wants to take the country."
Gerald McEntee, the president of the municipal workers union, which endorsed Dr. Dean last month, said: "I think this may be the beginning of the end for the other candidates."
Mr. Gore's decision put him in the odd position of supporting an insurgent candidate who has built his campaign attacking the centrist Democratic positions that the former Vice President has espoused for two decades. News analysis, Page A26. 
It also came as a devastating surprise to Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who was Mr. Gore's running mate in the disputed 2000 election. Mr. Lieberman delayed entering the 2004 race until he was sure Mr. Gore would not run, a show of courtesy to Mr. Gore that Democrats later blamed for Mr. Lieberman's slow start in the race.
Mr. Lieberman vowed to remain in the race, saying he was "more determined than ever to continue to fight for what's right for my party and my country." 
Mr. Lieberman's spokesman, Jano Cabrera, said Mr. Lieberman had learned of the decision after reporters called for comment. Asked if Mr. Gore had called his old friend to inform him, Mr. Cabrera responded: "No. That's my only response."
Mr. Gore's endorsement was also a setback for Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri and seemed likely to complicate his efforts to defeat Dr. Dean in Iowa, a state where Mr. Gore is popular.
It was also a rebuke to Gen. Wesley K. Clark, who has surrounded himself with former advisers to Mr. Gore and to former President Bill Clinton in an effort to appear as the candidate with the implicit support of the last White House.
The support of Mr. Gore should go a long way in addressing one of the questions that has clouded Dr. Dean's candidacy: Is he too far out of the mainstream to be taken seriously in presidential politics?
At a late-night fund-raiser at the Roseland Ballroom in midtown Manhattan, the crowd interrupted Dr. Dean's speech with chants of "Al Gore, Al Gore," but the candidate just shrugged and said, "I cannot confirm or deny."
Mr. Gore did not respond to a request for comment on Monday.
But his associates noted that Mr. Gore had long said he wanted to make an endorsement that would have an impact on the race and said he had been unimpressed with what one described as Mr. Lieberman's tepid campaign.
By contrast, they said, he had been enthralled by what he saw as the huge surge of interest in Dr. Dean's campaign and had taken notice of the turnout for a speech Mr. Gore gave in Washington last month on civil liberties. The speech was sponsored by MoveOn.org, a progressive Internet group that provided a major lift to Dr. Dean's campaign.
"There's something that Gore finds very appealing about Dean energizing the Democratic base," one of his associates said on Monday. "I would say it's wistful, but when Gore gave a speech to MoveOn, he got 3,000 people there. There were times in the race when we couldn't get 3,000 people to turn up, and he was the nominee. He sees an energy and vitality here."
The aide said Mr. Gore also was struck by Dr. Dean's position as an opponent of the war in Iraq and was distressed that his former running mate, whom he had warmly described in 2000 as the most qualified person he knew to be vice president, had become such a strong supporter of the war.
In 2000, Dr. Dean, then the governor of Vermont, considered running for president and met with Mr. Gore, who dissuaded him in what one former Gore aide described as "awkward conversation." At the time, the aide said, Dr. Dean told Mr. Gore that "he's going to challenge him for the presidency."
"Obviously, between then and now, things have changed," the aide said.
Dr. Dean endorsed Mr. Gore in January 2000, a few weeks before the New Hampshire primary. At the time, there were discussions about Dr. Dean's being named secretary of health and human services, the aide said.
But after Mr. Gore decided not to run, Dr. Dean began what an adviser described as a "long courtship" of the former vice president. 
And aides to Dr. Dean said they regularly spoke to senior advisers to Mr. Gore and his wife, Tipper, as part of the effort to enlist one of the most sought-after endorsements.
Mr. Gore has in recent weeks told friends that Dr. Dean's policy positions were closest to his own.
The decision caught most Democrats flat-footed. Mr. Clinton, appearing in San Francisco on Monday with the Democratic candidate for mayor, Gavin Newsom, said he had been unaware of Mr. Gore's decision and did not intend to issue an endorsement at this point. "I feel obligated to all of them," Mr. Clinton said of the Democratic candidates. "I don't intend to take a position until the voters decide who the nominee is."
The office of Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts sent a response by e-mail, with a staff member's notation inadvertently left on the top: "Here are some options: I don't think Kerry should comment unless asked at a press event."
In the statement itself, Mr. Kerry said, "This election will be decided by voters, across the country, beginning with voters in Iowa."
Aides to Mr. Gephardt seemed equally surprised, noting that Mr. Gephardt had put aside his own bid for the presidency in 2000 to endorse Mr. Gore.
Steve Murphy, Mr. Gephardt's campaign manager, said: "Al Gore and Dick Gephardt fought side by side to pass the Clinton economic plan, to defend against the Republican efforts to cut Medicare, to pass the assault weapons ban and to save affirmative action. Howard Dean was on the other side of every one of those fights."
Aides to other candidates noted that in the 1980's Mr. Gore had been part of the effort to move his party to the center, particularly on military issues, and suggested an incongruence in the military views of Mr. Gore and Dr. Dean.
Some said this was the latest manifestation of the struggle for influence over the Democratic Party between Mr. Gore and Mr. Clinton, who has had warm things to say about General Clark.
One person close to General Clark suggested that Mr. Gore was supporting Dr. Dean in the calculation that Dr. Dean would lose to Mr. Bush in November and that Mr. Gore would then enjoy the good will of Dean supporters "when he runs against Hillary Clinton in 2008."
General Clark, in an appearance on Monday evening on the MSNBC news program "Hardball," said he was unconcerned with Mr. Gore's decision. "I don't pay attention to endorsements, unless they are for me," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Clinton, in San Francisco with the Democratic candidate for mayor, Gavin Newsom, said he was not ready to endorse a presidential candidate. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (51%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ENDORSEMENTS; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: AL GORE (93%); JOE LIEBERMAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (88%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; WILGOREN, JODI; DEAN, HOWARD (DR); GORE, AL; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); BRAZILE, DONNA

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (72%) IOWA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



250 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Flight; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: GOING COMMERCIAL; 
How Microbes Joined the Jet Set

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

 BODY:
JET travel allows passengers to reach remote areas of the world comfortably in about a day. It also makes it easier for people to seek medical care, saving countless lives by rescues and delivery of organs for transplant surgery. Nevertheless, aviation leaves countries only a flight away from the possibility of being exposed to serious epidemics from many infectious diseases, as was vividly illustrated earlier this year by SARS. 
 Only chance exposure to one infected individual at the Metropole Hotel in Hong Kong managed to turn a health department's worst nightmare into reality. Separate flights from that city in February carried three travelers who were incubating the viral disease, formally known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, thus unwittingly starting outbreaks in Vietnam, Singapore and Canada. The crisis seriously disrupted international travel and economies. 
 The cause of SARS was unknown for the first month. The illness did not respond to any drug treatment. There was no vaccine for protection. The only ways to prevent its spread were old-fashioned and cumbersome: wearing masks, gowns and gloves when caring for patients, and quarantining their contacts. Airports were emptied, businesses shut down and millionsof people had their daily lives disrupted. Economic losses ran in the billions of dollars.
The prevention measures worked -- even quarantining, generally not thought to be effective in these days of high-speed travel -- and the chain of transmission was broken in July. But the experience was a jolt for those who championed globalization without appreciating the power of an infectious disease to cause worldwide chaos. The experience also underscored the need for doctors to ask patients who have puzzling symptoms where they have recently traveled. The reason, which seldom existed before air travel, is speed.
Travelers can circumnavigate the globe faster than it takes for the vast majority of microbes to infect an individual, incubate and then cause symptoms. A passenger can pick up a disease in one place and carry it to another before starting to feel sick. The absence of symptoms prevents detecting the illness before it crosses a border. 
With flight, insects carrying viruses that cause diseases like dengue can hitch rides to areas where those viruses do not exist. Many scientists suspect that the West Nile fever arrived in New York City in 1999 from a mosquito that had escaped from a flight.
In recent years, travelers who flew between two nonmalarial countries developed malaria, a parasitic disease, after being bitten by mosquitoes during airport stopovers in an infected area. Airport workers who never traveled to a malarial area have also come down with the disease after being bitten by infected mosquitoes transported by plane.
It is not just insects. Gambian giant pouched rats that were air-freighted as exotic pets into the United States from West or Central Africa earlier this year were infected with monkey pox and led to the first outbreak of the disease in this hemisphere. 
Although air travel may make transmission of disease easier, the spread of it is more likely to occur after infected passengers or cargo are off the plane. This is partly because the planes of most major airlines contain high-efficiency particulate air filters, which remove dust and airborne contaminants.
According to the World Health Organization, SARS was rarely transmitted aboard flights. The United Nations agency, which is headquartered in Geneva, received verified reports of 40 international flights that carried 37 passengers (some of whom were on two flights) with SARS before March 27. The disease was transmitted to at least one other passenger on five of the flights. But no transmission occurred after March 27, when W.H.O. advised airports to screen passengers leaving SARS-affected areas, said Dr. David L. Heymann, a W.H.O. epidemiologist who oversaw the agency's SARS investigation.
Some experts criticized countries that used thermal scanners, which detect elevated body temperatures and are costly, at airports, saying there is no evidence they are cost effective in detecting sick passengers. But Dr. Heymann said that the criticism overlooked the psychological advantage scanners offered by raising confidence among travelers and their role as deterrents in keeping sick passengers off planes. Scanners remain in use at many airports partly because no one knows whether SARS will return this year or next.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ALERT -- The SARS epidemic forced air travelers to closely monitor their health. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); SARS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); MALARIA (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); AIRLINES (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (77%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (76%); WEST NILE VIRUS (76%); TROPICAL DISEASES (76%); DENGUE FEVER (76%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (76%); RODENTS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); VACCINES (72%); ORGAN DONATION (72%); AIRPORT OPERATION (66%) Airlines and Airplanes; Special Sections; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Lawrence K Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); VIET NAM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



251 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: Humanity? Maybe It's in the Wiring 

BYLINE:  By SANDRA BLAKESLEE

 BODY:
Neuroscientists have given up looking for the seat of the soul, but they are still seeking what may be special about human brains, what it is that provides the basis for a level of self-awareness and complex emotions unlike those of other animals.
 Most recently they have been investigating circuitry rather than specific locations, looking at pathways and connections that are central in creating social emotions, a moral sense, even the feeling of free will. 
 There are specialized neurons at work, as well -- large, cigar-shaped cells called spindle cells.
The only other animals known to have such cells are the great apes. These neurons are exceptionally rich in filaments. And they appear to broadcast socially relevant signals all over the brain. 
The body, it turns out, is as important as the brain. Dr. Antonio Damasio, a neurologist at the University of Iowa Medical Center and the author of the book "Looking for Spinoza: Joy, Sorrow and the Feeling Brain," has pioneered the argument that emotions and feelings are linked to brain structures that map the body. From human social emotions, he said, both morality and reason have grown.
Similar ideas were advanced in simpler form more than a century ago. Now, researchers can point to specific aspects of brain structure that suggest how our forebears came to develop complex social emotions, culture and other quintessential human behaviors. 
The search for brain differences has not been easy. Mammalian brains are extraordinarily similar. All contain an outer rind, or cortex. The human cortex, where intelligence lies, is simply a lot bigger than that of other creatures given the human body's size.
But the size of the brain is not everything. One important feature of more complex brains is that they are rich in circuits -- linked cells from various parts of the brain that become active at the same time. 
Imagine a Christmas tree with millions of lights, each representing a cell group. The thought of dogs would activate a small set of lights. The thought of a beloved dog that died last year would activate some of the same lights plus others.
The thought of a cat would activate yet another set with some overlap because animals are involved. Thinking about a sunset would activate whole new sets of lights with no overlap. Once a thought is complete, all the lights or neurons fall silent, waiting to be called into play in different combinations when new thoughts arise.
Some sets of lights are found in structures that serve as major hubs for thinking and feeling. For example, a brain region called the anterior cingulate -- a hub from which many circuits branch out -- is almost always active when human subjects are experiencing emotions or need to think about things that are difficult. Any conflict of any sort, any reward, and the anterior cingulate starts buzzing.
At least that is the judgment of the researchers who track increased blood flow with brain scans called functional magnetic resonance imaging.
One of the first circuits studied in the 1940's involved the sense of touch. Sensations from the skin, including pain and temperature, were found to be carried by nerve fibers to a part of the brain devoted to bodily sensation. Less distinct sensations from viscera and internal organs went to a small region called the insula.
Or so the thinking of the time went. But Dr. Arthur Craig, a functional neuroanatomist at the Barrow Neurological Institute in Phoenix, says this classic view is incorrect for most sensations.
In a series of recent articles published in leading neuroscience journals, Dr. Craig has laid out a new wiring diagram for how the body talks to the brain. Tissues from all over the body, from skin surface to muscles, contain nerve endings or sensors that relay information, via long nerves, to the upper spinal cord. From this information come sensations including sharp pain, burning pain, cool or warm temperature, itching, muscle contraction, muscle burn because of lactic acid, joint movements, soft touch, mechanical stress, tickling, flushing, hunger and thirst.
The target cells, called Lamina 1 neurons, together make up a map of the state of the body. They are the first of several steps in the sorting and transmitting of sensory information, through structures in the brain stem and midbrain to the cortex.
The line ends at two thumb-size parts of the cortex called the insula, one on the left and one on the right side of the brain. But the crucial stop along the way may be a nucleus of cells in the back of the thalamus with the intimidating name of the posterior ventromedial nucleus, VMpo for short.
This structure hardly exists in most mammals. It is the size of a grain of sand in the macaque monkey, but relatively enormous in humans -- the size of a pistachio nut. It collects information on bodily states like temperature or the need for water, that need to be monitored to keep the body stable, in equilibrium. A nearby structure, another similar nucleus, also collects sensory news from internal organs. Each sends the information on to the pair of insulae. 
In brain imaging studies the insulae show increased blood flow when people are exposed to disgusting odors, bad tastes, light touch or feel itching, muscle fatigue, stomach pain, thirst and most other body sensations. Because of this, scientists think that this collection of neurons contains a richer and more detailed map of the state of the body. Just as a map on the computer screen can grow more complex as cities, roads, even buildings are added, the brain seems to be making ever more complex constructions of feelings to represent what is going on in the body. How this happens is still a mystery. But the insula, Dr. Craig said, is "a system that represents the material me."
In each insula information becomes feelings. Self-awareness emerges, Dr. Craig said. Other animals have basic emotions, but the consensus is that most lack self-awareness and complex emotions because they lack brain structures like the VMpo and have insulae that are much less complex.
There is a final step. Information from the left and right insula is rerouted to the front part of the right insula where a new map is created, with yet another level of feeling, yet another sense of what is going on internally and in the world. This, say some neuroscientists, is where body states are translated into social emotions, which are the sorts of feelings that poets and novelists concentrate on -- love and hate, lust and disgust, cold calculation, hot tempers, sadness and happiness. If one feels heavy, or light, in the metaphorical sense, one is feeling it in the right anterior insula.
In scores of brain studies, this part of the insula is activated when we recall sadness or anger, anticipate pain, feel panic or become sexually aroused or have an emotional response to music. It lights up when people view or imitate emotional expressions in others. And in one study it showed activity when people experienced the pain of being socially excluded. 
A number of experiments show that the anterior insula is the main area that is active when people experience self-awareness, the realization that "it is my body that is moving," my physical self moving through time.
In a separate line of research, Dr. John M. Allman, a neuroscientist at the California Institute of Technology, and his colleagues have delved below the level of brain structure to identify a special class of neuron -- spindle cells -- that are relatively enormous cells that collect information from one region of the brain and send it on to other regions. They function like air traffic controllers for emotions. They seem to lie at the heart of the human social emotion circuitry, including a moral sense.
At a Society for Neuroscience meeting in New Orleans last month, Dr. Allman reported finding spindle cells in an area called the frontoinsular cortex in only two species -- humans and African apes. This is a region closely connected to the insula and part of the same elaborate circuitry in which emotions are generated and experienced. An adult human had 82,855 such cells, a gorilla had 16,710, a bonobo had 2,159 and a chimp had 1,853. All had more spindle cells in the right hemisphere than in the left.
This particular part of the cortex is a somewhat mysterious region, Dr. Allman said. In brain imaging studies, it lights up when people look at romantic partners; perceive unfairness, deception or uncertainty about rewards; experience embarrassment; or, if they are mothers, hear infants cry.
The area is part of the orbitofrontal cortex, a part of the brain that seems to have undergone an evolutionary leap forward as recently as 100,000 years ago. It is where autobiographical memories are retrieved and choices are made for governing future behavior. It is activated with moral quandaries and economic decision making.
Four years ago, Dr. Allman and his colleagues identified spindle cells in the anterior cingulate of humans, African apes and orangutans but not in any other species. The anterior cingulate is an older part of the brain that participates in autonomic functions like heart rate and blood pressure, generation of vocalizations and the production and recognition of facial expressions.
In humans, the experience of any intense emotion -- love, anger, lust -- activates the anterior cingulate. It is active during demanding tasks and when people make errors. The harder the task, the more activation.
Spindle cells probably first appeared 10 million to 15 million years ago in a common ancestor of apes, hominids and humans, Dr. Allman said. Today these rare neurons are 5 to 40 times as abundant in humans as in apes. Spindle cells may help people register the general appropriateness of transactions or events, he said. They are a teaching system that takes output from social emotion circuits -- I feel good about this, I don't feel good about that -- and sends it all over the cortex for further action to occur.
Spindle cells are not present at birth. They appear around age 4 months and gradually increase during the second and third year of life, the same time that guilt and embarrassment appear. As children develop a sense of moral judgment, the frontal lobes and spindle cell system continue to expand.
No neuroscientist would make a leap to say that this is where the conscience or sense of free will is lodged. But if one imagined a single location for these fundamental aspects of human nature, this would be the place.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nicole Tetreault, left, Dr. Atiya Hakeem and Karli K. Watson help Dr. John M. Allman with his research into cells that seem to lie at the heart of social emotion circuitry. Right, Dr. Arthur Craig has laid out a wiring diagram for how the body talks to the brain. (Photo by Jeff Topping for The New York Times); (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. F4); (Photo by Bill Marsh/The New York Times)(pg. F1) Chart: "Conduits Of Emotion"Wiry spindle cells, found only in humans and some of the great apes, concentrate in areas of the brain that are activated during risky or socially compelling situations. These computer reconstructions show only a portion of the front of each brain. INCOMINGFilaments called apical dendrites funnel signals from the brain to the central portion of the cell. PROCESSINGIn the cell body, signals converge and are integrated to create outgoing impulses. A decision is made to trigger the axon. INCOMINGBasal dendrites also receive messages from elsewhere in the brain. OUTGOINGThe axon may distribute messages about the appropriateness of a behavior or activity. RELATIVES OF HUMANS WITH SPINDLE CELLSSome of the great apes have the same brain structures, but far fewer than in adult humans. FRONTOINSULAR CORTEXRed areas on computer images mark regions containing spindle cells. Between infancy and adulthood, the number of spindle cells increases with the capacity to experience complex emotions. (Sources by Dr. John M. Allman, Karli K. Watson, Patrick Codd, Dr. Atiya Y. Hakeem, Nicole A. Tetreault, Archie Fobbs and Dr. Katerina Semendeferi, California Institute of Technology)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRAIN (92%); NEUROSCIENCE (91%); ANIMALS (89%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (79%); MAMMALS (77%); DOGS (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); WRITERS (68%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (59%); CHRISTMAS (50%) Brain; Tests and Testing; Magnetic Resonance Imagers; Emotions; Research; Animals; Brain

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (56%) Barrow Neurological Institute

PERSON: Sandra Blakeslee; Arthur (Dr) Craig

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



252 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: So, How's the Weather? Futuristic; 
From Smog to Sun, Climate Scientists Zoom In on Changes

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
The New York City region has been likened to a quilt -- a stitched-together patchwork of neighborhoods and communities so different in their economic and ethnic profiles that location can sometimes seem like the only thing they have in common.
 Now, for the first time, scientists are beginning to look at the future climate in the same way. Their key insight is that just like everything else in and around New York -- from the quality of the schools to crime rates and taxes -- global warming and climate change over the coming century will affect people and their health differently depending on where they live. 
 To test this theory, the New York Climate and Health Project, which scientists say is distinctive in its attention to the smaller-scale impact of global warming, has divided the 31-county region, which includes much of Connecticut, New Jersey and the nearby New York suburbs as well as the city itself, into hundreds of grid boxes, each four kilometers square. 
Vast number-crunching climate models, fed with everything now known about those communities and what might be projected in the future, are being asked to speculate what a warming planet might mean, on the ground in each square, to a person on a hot summer's day in the mid-2050's. It is climate science with a zoom lens. Members of the team are presenting their case this week to fellow scientists at a meeting of the American Geophysical Union in San Francisco.
"Before, everything in New York was all in one big box," said Dr. Cynthia Rosenzweig, a research scholar at Columbia University's Earth Institute and one of the leaders of the multidisciplinary climate-study group. "We're now getting the first fine-scale climate-change scenarios."
The implications of that shift in perspective go much further than scientific curiosity.
Meteorologists have long known, for example, that cities can trap radiant energy and compound the complications, costs and miseries of summer -- the so-called heat-island effect. The climate project is beginning to reveal where the local heat sources are that drive that process. The New York region's heat island, it turns out, is really an archipelago of industrial areas like Paterson, Camden and the Ironbound section of Newark in New Jersey, and Long Island City in Queens. These places can trap and radiate the sun's effects.
The future of smog is also not perhaps what some people might expect. Most of the climate projections show, for instance, that the air quality across much of the New York City suburban belt is likely to deteriorate more over the coming century than in the city itself. Other parts of the country, meanwhile -- notably the Midwest and Southeast -- are likely to see their air pollution problems worsen even more than in the Northeast as a whole, the projections say.
But like almost everything else in the complex and controversial subject of climate change, which most scientists say is caused by the burning of fossil fuels, there are some big potential political implications of the New York climate project as well.
Environmentalists say the conclusions so far are reinforcing the argument that local action can make at least a partial difference in a warming climate, through the adoption of things like living green roofs and urban tree belts that can absorb heat and reduce storm water runoff. At the same time, the scientists are exposing as perhaps never before the issues of social justice that environmentalists and social critics say will only become bigger and bigger over time -- specifically whether the poor will suffer more under a hotter climate than the rich.
The photochemical stew of smog, for example, is produced when heat, sunlight and pollution interact in the air. Smog, in turn, can aggravate respiratory problems like asthma, which is endemic in many urban lower-income neighborhoods. To complete the cycle, many of the hottest urban neighborhoods in the region -- notably older industrial areas like western Queens and Brooklyn that have few open spaces or parks -- are also home to many of the city's electricity plants that power the air-conditioners that cool the city.
"You could have a negative spiral -- the more you try to cool an area, the more pollution you produce, the more that pollution gets cooked, the more ozone you have," said Edward J. Linky, a senior energy adviser at the federal Environmental Protection Agency's New York office.
But researchers say that the connections being revealed by local climate study might work the other way, too. Engineers in other cities around the world, notably in Japan and Germany, have been working on local heat-reduction technologies for years, and that base of experience, if applied in New York and merged with the fine-resolution climate projections, could create a powerful tool, they say, to make some New York neighborhoods cooler.
Alternatively, scientists say the project might ultimately conclude that local efforts on the ground won't help all that much -- a finding that they say would bolster arguments that global warming can be addressed only by large-scale government action.
"This work will help us see the likely impacts of the things we might control," said Patrick L. Kinney, an associate professor at Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health and a principal investigator for the climate and health project.
Sometime next year, an example of that new climate focus will unfold on top of an old manufacturing building in Queens, just under the 59th Street Bridge, when a group of designers and environmentalists installs what its leaders say will be New York City's biggest scientifically designed and monitored living green roof.
A green roof is not at all the same as a garden. One is for pleasure, the other for utilitarian climate duty. The $300,000 Queens project -- half paid for by the New York State Energy Research Development Authority, half through privately raised money -- will feature hardy, drought-resistant grasses. A monitoring system will allow researchers to calculate the impact on temperature and water runoff.
The goal, the project's leaders say, is to create a template that can be duplicated over and over, and perhaps even foster a new industry. Long Island City is one of New York City's last industrial strongholds -- a weakness, perhaps, in retaining heat, but a potential source of jobs if heat-reduction equipment could be manufactured there.
Long Island City alone, they say, has nearly enough flat roof space to build the equivalent of Brooklyn's Prospect Park -- a huge heat-absorbing sponge of roughly 500 acres, all at roof height -- if the idea takes off.
Other researchers are focusing on the question of energy use -- a chronic concern in the region. This fall, the federal E.P.A.'s New York office commissioned what officials say will be the first computer model in the nation aimed at assessing energy use in one city under different future climates. The model will be able to sort out the various technologies, including tactically placed vegetation, cooler roofs and reflective road surfaces, then calculate the energy consumption effects and costs. One of the first places the model will be focused, E.P.A. officials say, is Lower Manhattan, where electricity use will change significantly over the next few years as the World Trade Center site is redeveloped.
But climate scientists are also hoping that green roofs -- andthe presumably bolstered argument on their behalf from the climate and health project -- will become a kind of ecological fashion statement. The Long Island City building was chosen earlier this year, partly because its owner, Donald Gratz, was enthusiastic, but also because it will be highly visible from the well-traveled 59th Street Bridge between Queens and Manhattan. Mr. Gratz, 68, died of cancer in November, but his widow, Roberta Brandes Gratz, said the family had vowed to continue the project as a tribute to him.
"It represents all the values he stood for, and I really believe it will make a difference," she said.
Green fashion might get an even more visible statement not far away at Silvercup Studios in Long Island City, where the "The Sopranos" and "Sex and the City" are filmed. Studio officials say they are considering going green for all or part of its 120,000 square feet of flat-roofed studio space, partly on the basis of a presentation earlier this year by environmentalists involved in the Gratz project. Silvercup's president, Stuart Match Suna, said he was interested in making an environmental contribution. But he said he was also thinking, at least at little, about the studio's image.
"It could look pretty cool," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Cynthia Rosenzweig, a leader of the New York Climate and Health Project, lecturing on global warming at Columbia University. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1); The team studying the climate's future impact includes, from left, Kim Knowlton, Patrick L. Kinney, Cynthia Rosenzweig and Joyce Rosenthal. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (92%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); SMOG (89%); CITIES (78%); SUBURBS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); METEOROLOGY (77%); MODELING & SIMULATION (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); CRIME RATES (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); AIR QUALITY (63%); AIR POLLUTION (60%) Weather; Global Warming; Grass; Roofs; Weather; Trees and Shrubs

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); AMERICAN GEOPHYSICAL UNION (54%) New York City Climate and Health Project

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York State; Connecticut; New Jersey; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



253 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL; 
Giants Have to Make Do With a Makeshift Lineup

BYLINE:  By LYNN ZINSER

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Dec. 8 

 BODY:
As a crowd of reporters formed around Jesse Palmer's locker -- an appropriate gathering for a player who is probably the starting quarterback for the Giants -- Kerry Collins struggled to make his way past on very tall crutches.
 The injury to Collins was the biggest news in the 20-7 loss to the Washington Redskins on Sunday -- more tests are still being done to determine how long his ankle sprain will keep him out -- but it was in keeping with the team's recent trend of players dropping like arcade ducks. The Giants may now buy their crutches in bulk. 
 Only 5 of the 11 players who started on offense in the opener will most likely do so on Sunday night against the New Orleans Saints: running back Tiki Barber, receiver Amani Toomer, offensive tackle Ian Allen, right guard David Diehl and center Chris Bober. The defense has lost four starters: defensive end Kenny Holmes, free safety Shaun Williams and cornerbacks Will Allen and Will Peterson. 
Over all, the Giants have $9.8 million worth of their salary cap on injured reserve, another $11.09 million most likely out for at least this game. The injured list of Collins, tight end Jeremy Shockey, receiver Ike Hilliard, left tackle Luke Petitgout, left guard Rich Seubert and everyone else clogging the trainer's rooms might form a better team than the Giants' active roster.
Coach Jim Fassel walks into his meetings each week with more holes to fill. "It's not fun," he said Monday.
Fassel said this season has grown even more desperate than the final games of 1997, when the Giants had a rash of injuries and no salary-cap room to bring in more players. Fassel said in that instance, the Giants did not have 46 healthy players to put on the active roster for games. This season, the salary cap is not the problem.
"This is by far the worst," Fassel said. "Even in '97 we didn't lose the players we've lost now. We've got enough room under the cap that we're able to bring in guys. 
"But you don't look at a guy and say, we can spend money on him and get him in here and he can play right away and help us win. There isn't anybody out there."
Any players still unemployed at this stage of the season are not likely to help a team even as decimated as the Giants (4-9). It has taken the coaches several weeks to work cornerback Ike Charlton into the rotation, even though the secondary has been hurt by injuries.
It is simplistic to blame the Giants' record on injuries, because their demise took root long before the crutch brigade started. But nothing puts the spotlight on injuries more than a quarterback leaving the field on the back of a cart, as Collins did on Sunday. 
Palmer has hardly played since the Giants drafted him in the fourth round out of Florida in 2001. He has thrown a total of 19 N.F.L. passes; his first extensive action came against his former college coach, Steve Spurrier. But playing behind Collins allows few windows of opportunity. Collins started the past 67 games for the Giants and threw every pass attempt from Nov. 21, 1999, to Dec. 15, 2002, when Palmer played in a blowout victory over Dallas and attempted four passes.
Palmer will play behind an offensive line with three players who began the season as starters and with only one who has played the same position all season. That is one reason Palmer was sacked five times in his short appearance on Sunday. The other reason was his own inexperience. Now, he gets a chance to add a little to his resume, albeit under harsh circumstances.
"The quarterback position will be like a lot of positions," Fassel said. "We are playing with new guys in there without a lot of experience. That will be part of how we game plan and what we do and how we handle them on the sideline and all of those types of things. The quarterback, it all melts back on his shoulders. If a guy misses a block or we don't run the ball or somebody drops a pass, it all seeps back to him and he has to be able to handle all of that."
And so do the Giants.

EXTRA POINTS
Coach JIM FASSEL said the Giants planned to send a clip of the play in which quarterback KERRY COLLINS was hurt to the N.F.L. The play should have been blown dead on a delay-of-game penalty, but despite a flag being thrown, the officials did not stop the play. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%) Football

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (83%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (57%) New York Giants; New Orleans Saints

PERSON: Lynn Zinser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



254 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Jets' Plans Cannot Depend On 2012 Summer Games

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
IT'S over. There will be no convictions for the two Salt Lake City officials who presided over freebies and cushy jobs to help lure the 2002 Winter Games to Utah. A judge threw out the case last week.
 But repercussions from that long morality play will affect another American city currently lusting after the dubious honor of playing host to the 2012 Summer Games. 
 New York has juiced up its Olympic bid with an impressive-sounding $800 million offer from the Jets to help build a palace in Manhattan. But many roadblocks remain. 
One is named London and another Paris, two of the eight other cities bidding for the 2012 Games. Another roadblock may be worldwide political fallout from the United States' incursion into Iraq.
Still another roadblock is the recent disarray of the United States Olympic Committee, along with the international perception that American track and field and Major League Baseball are shielding their eyes from performance-enhancing drugs. And the bribe scandal in Salt Lake City does not help.
"The anti-American sentiment is very real and palpable," said David D'Alessandro, the president of John Hancock Financial Services, a major sponsor of international sports.
To be sure, New York has a few little things in its favor -- glamour, money, talent, expertise, persuasiveness and landmark facilities.
The big city is not accustomed to being a long shot or an also-ran in anything, but Andrew Zimbalist, the sports economist from Smith College, rates New York's chances for 2012 as 1 in 50.
Nevertheless, New York (being New York) forges straight ahead, the pungent tang of real-estate development blending with the illusory aroma of Olympic fever.
In 1994, Daniel L. Doctoroff, then a money manager, began his eloquent campaign for an Olympic stadium that would foster development on the West Side. (Whether a gigantic stadium, hunkering alongside the Hudson River, is good for the people and the ambience of the West Side is quite another issue.)
Coming on board in 2000, the Jets have offered $800 million to build the New York Sports and Convention Center (puh-leeze, not a stadium) that would be the linchpin of an Olympic bid.
"There's been an evolution, but not a change in thinking," said Doctoroff, now a deputy mayor of New York, who called the Jets' involvement "a happy coincidence."
Robert Wood Johnson IV, the owner of the Jets, is not going to dig out $800 million from his walking-around funds to create The House That Woody Built.
According to L. Jay Cross, the president of the Jets, the club would "borrow some money" and also arrange the normal $150 million new-stadium loan from the National Football League. Cross said that the Jets would also seek corporate partners and suite-holders, but that the club was "not convinced" about selling the naming rights. 
The city and state would have to arrange financing for what could be another $700 million or more for a retractable roof, a deck over the railroad yards, air rights and other construction. Extension of existing rail lines could cost around $1.5 billion.
Meanwhile, time is ticking toward the International Olympic Committee's vote on July 6, 2005. Because of the Salt Lake City scandal, I.O.C. delegates are no longer allowed to make boondoggle visits or be swayed by tuition and frilly jobs for family members. Not that New Yorkers would have sunk as low as those tricky Utahans, mind you.
Since Dr. Jacques Rogge became president in 2002, the I.O.C. has insisted upon detailed guarantees of how each new Olympic stadium will be acquired. The shovels do not have to be in the ground on July 6, 2005 -- but financing for the shovels must be demonstrated. 
The Jets have their own deadline because their lease ends after the 2008 season. 
"Giant Stadium is red and blue," Cross said. "It is clear who is in control there. This is a departure point."
The Jets want no part of returning to Shea Stadium or even a new stadium in Queens. It must be Manhattan, they say, to attract around 150 other events a year under the proposed roof.
Cross insists that the Jets are not depending on New York's winning the 2012 Summer Games. The optimistic Doctoroff, when pressed about a possible loss of the 2012 Games, conceded that "the entire West Side plan goes forward."
The NYC 2012 campaign is now led by Jay Kriegel, 63, a classic New York insider going back to his hitch as chief of staff for former Mayor John V. Lindsay in the late '60's. Kriegel has a double chore -- financing the entire Olympic package and persuading I.O.C. delegates to vote for New York in 2005. 
Will international politics work against New York? "Both Moscow and Los Angeles were awarded Games during the Cold War," noted Harvey Schiller, a former executive director of the U.S.O.C., now working in New York and active with the 2012 bid. 
"Delegates could see New York as an Olympic island, not continentally based," suggested Richard Pound of Canada, an I.O.C. delegate and the president of the World Anti-Doping Agency. Pound added that the recent selection of Vancouver to hold the 2010 Winter Games could work against a North American city for 2012. 
Then there is the recent chaos in the U.S.O.C., now being revamped under Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona. Some I.O.C. delegates are sure to recall how a weary Juan Antonio Samaranch, in his final days as president of the I.O.C., was pressured into testifying before Congress about the Salt Lake City scandal. 
Pound called the bribes "tacky beyond description" but did not think they were worth prosecuting. For many I.O.C. members, getting caught and the subsequent American-style moralizing are sore points. 
"If New York hopes to get the Games, we can't be ignoring or minimizing these international rules," D'Alessandro said. 
The I.O.C. policy is that the Games must leave a legacy of facilities for the people of any host city. My opinion has long been that New York does not need to throw an expensive 17-day party for Olympic glory. It should not turn itself into a high-security television studio while schools, hospitals and the infrastructure are falling apart.
"What's the big deal in getting the Olympics in New York?" Zimbalist asked. "The city will go nuts, displacing all the people who would normally come here for the theater and the museums."
The odds are long against New York's holding the Games in 2012. The Jets are facing their own two-minute drill, with many yards to go.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of the proposed stadium on Manhattan's West Side that would become the home of the Jets and the linchpin of a bid for the 2012 Olympics. (pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); CITIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (73%); BASEBALL (72%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (72%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (72%); TRACK & FIELD (68%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); SCANDALS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); RUNNING (56%) Olympic Games; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Olympic Games (2012); Summer Games (Olympics); Finances

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%) New York Jets

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%) SIC6719 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: George Vecsey

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (57%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



255 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
A Chance To Meet Some Winners

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
DARN, and the Norwegian language lessons were going so well.
 With the Republicans coming to town for their national convention next summer, it seemed to make sense to learn a few expressions. Call it one New Yorker's goodwill gesture to the visitors, a response to their original plan to hole up dockside aboard a ship owned by Norwegian Cruise Lines. (The company may be in Miami, but there is that name.) 
 The Norwegian phrase "uff da" had been mastered when the House Republican leader, Tom DeLay, gave up the ship. It now appears that conventiongoers will forgo the security of a Hudson River pier to venture into the wilds of Manhattan. We'd like to think they will be reasonably safe. Attacks on out-of-towners are not the norm here. New Yorkers are usually content with mugging their own.
No offense to Norway, but there is little reason now to pursue the language studies any further. Perhaps it is just as well. "Uff da" will do fine for so many situations.
The phrase has been translated in various ways, but officials at the Norwegian Consulate General in Manhattan say that "good grief" and "what a shame" capture its essence. It is uttered when things don't go quite right. To put it in terms that New Yorkers will understand, regardless of ethnicity, it is sort of a Scandinavian "oy vey."
Perhaps Mr. DeLay himself has had reason to use the phrase, though probably not too often of late. Things have been going the Republicans' way for some time. They control the House, the Senate and the White House. They command a solid majority of governorships. Even in normally Democratic New York, they have triumphed in the last three elections for both mayor and governor.
Plain and simple, they have figured out how to win. And now that they intend to walk among us instead of hiding out on a cruise ship, perhaps some of their good karma will rub off on us.
We certainly could do worse than to have contact with winners. In case you hadn't noticed, New York is on a losing streak in endeavors that it deems important.
Sports? The Mets were hopeless this year, and the Yankees looked listless in dropping the World Series. The hockey Rangers are mediocre, and the Islanders worse. The two football teams, which insist on calling themselves New York even though they play in New Jersey, are embarrassments. The basketball Knicks are not much better.
Broadway? This fall has had more turkeys than Thanksgiving. One show, "Oldest Living Confederate Widow Tells All," opened and closed within 24 hours -- the quickest hook in years. (One of these days, a producer is going to read a devastating newspaper review on a hand-held computer and shut down a play during the opening-night intermission.)
Things are so bad that Ned Beatty, who plays Big Daddy in "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," publicly complained that his movie-trained co-stars were not up to the rigors of the stage. At least two actresses, including Mary Tyler Moore, left their plays after being rebuked for not knowing their lines.
What's next? Violinists at Carnegie Hall tripping over a Mozart piece because it has too many notes?
WALL STREET, at least, is on a roll, and that should translate into good news for the municipal treasury. Yesterday alone, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose by more than 102 points, putting it within sight of the 10,000 mark.
But as splendid as that may be, it is hard to see how it benefits the record numbers of homeless people seeking shelter in the city, or the 8.2 percent of New Yorkers who are officially out of work. When it comes to the unemployment rate, no major metropolitan area is doing worse.
In general, New York's post-9/11 halo seems to be fading.
Mr. DeLay, for example, strongly supports a transportation bill that could cost the city hundreds of millions of dollars in federal money. Washington's formula for distributing antiterrorism aid leaves New Yorkers, per capita, with a fraction of what people are getting in, oh, Wyoming. That may make sense if you believe the Buffalo Bill Museum in Cody, Wyo., is now a bigger target for the terrorists than the Brooklyn Bridge.
As for Albany, its chronic dithering is so severe that lawmakers cannot agree even on something as simple as a new law to keep the city's sidewalks from being swamped by street vendors.
Nothing is guaranteed, of course, but maybe things will improve for New York once the Republicans come to town, with their winning ways. Can't go on forever saying "Uff da."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CRUISES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (76%); TRENDS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (65%); BASKETBALL (65%); THANKSGIVING (60%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (50%) Political Advertising; News and News Media; Finances; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Social Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (57%)

TICKER: NCLH (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: Jonathan P Hicks; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Clyde Haberman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); NORWAY (95%) New York City; New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



256 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Flight; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: GOING COMMERCIAL; 
Airline Economics: Fasten Your Seat Belt

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
SOME years ago, in a speech to business students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Warren Buffett lamented one of his rare failures as a superstar investor -- money apparently squandered on US Airways and the sorry industry of commercial aviation. 
 "Despite putting in billions and billions of dollars, the net return to owners from being in the entire airline industry, if you owned it all, and if you put up all this money, is less than zero," he said. 
 And speaking of that first flight at Kitty Hawk, he added: "If there had been a capitalist down there, the guy should have shot down Wilbur! I mean, you know, one small step for mankind, and one huge step backwards for capitalism!"
Mr. Buffett was not exaggerating the pathetic nature of the industry's financial returns. From the start of commercial aviation in the United States through 2002, the majordomestic airlines as a whole have suffered a net loss of $1.4 billion, according to the Air Transport Association, the industry's main trade group in this country. The industry actually made annual net profits from 1996 to 2000, but lost them in the worst downturn in its history. 
That slump, which began with the economy's plummet in the spring of 2001 and accelerated after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, is only now showing signs of ending. The downturn led to a bankruptcy filing in August 2002 by US Airways and another one four months later by United Airlines, the largest ever such filing in aviation history. The poor economy has crystallized the problems that have made the industry synonymous with failed big business.
Executives and experts point to several factors hampering the industry: high fixed costs, especially with labor; poor management decisions; a balance sheet that relies on high-spending business travelers, and therefore a healthy economy, for profits; and a glut of seats, possibly because there are too many companies.
"The business is cyclical and moves with the violent economic swings," said Raymond E. Neidl, an analyst at Blaylock & Partners, an investment bank, and a co-author of "Airline Odyssey: The Airline Industry's Turbulent Flight into the Future." "The airline industry is highly capital-intensive. It requires a highly dedicated, skilled work force that demands high wages. It's like trying to ride a bull, managing the airline business."
That wild ride did not begin until several decades after the Wright brothers made their fateful flight at Kitty Hawk. Mass commercial aviation in the United States was born when companies running mail routes started carrying paying passengers to earn supplemental income. Passengers quickly became the main source of revenue, setting off the creation of globe-straddling airlines during what many regard as the golden age of commercial aviation. 
No one of that era was a greater visionary than Juan Trippe, who in 1927 took charge of Pan American Airways' single mail route between Key West, Fla., and Havana. Eight years later, the airline started its famous China Clipper service and opened routes to Japan, Singapore and Australia. It eventually linked the United States with 85 countries and became the dominant force in commercial aviation.
Though air travel seemed a romantic and thriving business in the post-World War II era -- symbolized by passengers dressing up to fly and being served dinner on china by white-gloved attendants -- economists say that now-defunct airlines like Pan Am, Eastern Air Lines and Braniff Airways operated with huge inefficiencies before the industry was deregulated in 1978. Until then, those flaws remained in the system because the government fixed fares to cover the airlines' high operating costs, economists say.
By the end of 1978, the industry had made $5.45 billion in cumulative historical profits, a number that had grown almost every year since the beginning of commercial aviation. But between 1978 and now, the industry has gone into the red, mostly because of difficulties in shedding those earlier inefficiencies.
For example, the foundations for work rules and wage scales in today's labor contracts -- much of the industry is unionized -- were laid before deregulation. Many industry experts say the contracts are overly generous, given that the industry is deregulated, though unions argue that their skilled employees deserve such wages. Analysts estimate that labor costs make up about 40 percent of operating expenses.
IN the last coupleof years, the biggest airlines have been trying to renegotiate contracts to squeeze more productivity out of workers. Bankruptcy laws gave United Airlines and US Airways the leverage they needed to negotiate changes, and American Airlines, the world's largest airline, persuaded its unions to accept $1.8 billion in annual labor concessions after the bankrupt airlines set a precedent. But many experts say such efforts may be short-lived, because these unions historically negotiate wage increases once the economy improves.
Unions, though, criticize management for the failure of airlines to make money. One example they bring up is the pricing model that traditional airlines use. These airlines rely on a complex computerized system called "yield management," which aims to maximize the amount of money each airline gets from each passenger. This system results in dozens of air fares with widely varying restrictions existing for a single route, and sky-high last-minute fares often bought by business travelers.
The airlines depend on the small number of travelers who are buying those last-minute fares to turn a profit for them. But during this last economic downturn, many businesses shunned such tickets and told employees to stop traveling or buy cheaper seats, whether on traditional airlines or low-cost carriers like Southwest Airlines and JetBlue Airways.
Clifford Winston, an economist at the Brookings Institution who studies the industry, said that the airlines need a fare system that "does not make them vulnerable to the vicissitudes of a particular group of travelers, like business travelers," he said.
Some executives say one big problem is overcapacity. There are simply too many airlines operating too many hubs and flying too many planes, they contend. Many experts say the airlines throw planes on a route to grab market share from rivals. Robert L. Crandall, the former chief executive of American, said that airlines added planes because growth spreads fixed costs over more passenger miles.
"If everybody is growing to keep their costs down, then there's constantly a great deal of capacity in the market," Mr. Crandall said. "So long as there's lots of capacity, people have an incentive to cut prices."
There is no easy solution. Some experts say that as airlines die out, overall capacity will drop. Others argue that the federal government should be more flexible in allowing consolidation or coordination of prices and routes among partner airlines.
One part of the industry that may not be shrinking too soon is the low-cost airlines. They are generally modeled after Southwest, which has been profitable every year for the last three decades.
These newer airlines picked up quickly on a lesson that their bigger rivals ignored for decades. "The customer considers one airline to be exactly the same as another airline," Mr. Crandall said. "The customer always chooses the lowest price."

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Associated Press) Chart: "Plenty of Turbulence on the Profit Front" Graphs track:Domestic airlines have seen demand steadily increase . . .REVENUE PASSENGER MILESMiles flown by fare-paying passengers . . . but the earnings have been volatile.NET ANNUAL PROFITSIn billions of dollars, adjusted for inflation (Source by Air Transport Association) Chart: "Commercial Aviation"First in-flight movie: In 1925, Imperial Airways shows "The Lost World" on a flight from London to the Continent. 1914 -- QUICK TRIPThe world's first regularly scheduled airline, the St. Petersburg-Tampa Airboat Line, offers two flights a day (one passenger per flight) across Tampa Bay. It quickly fails. 1919 -- A ROYAL LEAPK.L.M. Royal Dutch Airlines is founded by a Dutch Army pilot. Within a year, it offers service between Amsterdam and London, and by 1934 in all Dutch colonies, from Curacao to Indonesia. 1930 -- COAST TO COASTRegular service between New York and Los Angeles begins. The flights by Transcontinental and Western Air (which becomes T.W.A.) include an overnight stop in Kansas City, Mo., since night flying is considered too dangerous. 1936 -- CHINA CLIPPERPan American Airways service cuts travel time between California and China from three weeks to three days. Of course, for $1,438, you get a few stopovers: Hawaii, the Midway Islands, Wake Island, Guam and the Philippines. 1952 -- BRIEF COMETThe DeHavilland Comet, the first jet-only airliner, is sleek, fast and doomed, grounded after three crashes in two years. The accidents, caused by weakened metal, force a new level of scrutiny of design and engineering. 1954 -- SILENT WITNESSAn Australian chemist proposes placing recording devices in passenger planes to help unravel the causes of crashes. Pilots and regulators oppose the black (really orange) boxes -- they fret about the expletives that will be recorded. The boxes become standard equipment by 1960. 1969 -- JUMBO BETBoeing gambles its existence on the largest ever transoceanic airliner, the 747, which carries 350 or more passengers at lower prices and with more comfort than any other jet. 1976-2003 -- BOOM AND BUSTAt 1,450 miles per hour, the Concorde cuts travel time between New York and London to three and a half hours. But this British-French symbol of 1960's supersonic dreaming was never a financial success, and the final nine were retired this fall, including one now berthed at the Intrepid Air-Sea-Space Museum in Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Industry Profiles; Special Sections

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (55%); BLAYLOCK & PARTNERS LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (88%) Edward Wong

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (89%); PHILIPPINES (79%); GUAM (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MIDWAY ISLAND (76%); WAKE ISLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2003 



257 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: A Documentary Records a Fierce Struggle for Power, Electric and Otherwise 

BYLINE:  By NANCY RAMSEY 

 BODY:
When the filmmaker Paul Devlin was looking for financial help with a project he described as "a movie about the electrical sector in the former Soviet Republic of Georgia," people yawned. But when he told them he was making "a nonfiction narrative about corruption, assassination and street rioting over electricity," they paid attention, even if they still did not give him any money. 
 "Power Trip," which opens in New York today, is set in Tbilisi, Georgia's capital, and tells the story of the AES Corporation, an American-based multinational energy company that bought the local power distributor, Telasi, in 1999. AES set out with American can-do optimism and late-90's Nasdaq-fueled enthusiasm to institute a rational, market-based system of power distribution in Georgia. Big mistake. 
 Along the way the film captures the pathos of life without power; pensioners who could not afford to pay their monthly electricity bills of $24; the challenges of having the little power available not go first to industrial plants reportedly owned by the relatives of Eduard A. Shevardnadze, then the president; and the dark comedy of corporate executives who, in Mr. Devlin's words, "met their match in Georgia." 
Initially, for both this filmmaker and AES, Georgia was a captivating place. 
"I fell in love with it: the people, the mountains, the river that runs through Tblisi," said Dennis Bakke, AES's former chief executive, speaking by phone from Arlington, Va., where the company is based. "It's a beautiful place, a historic old crossroads." In the film a young Georgian woman, trained as a dancer, tells the mythic tale of Georgia's creation: "There is a story that when God was giving the land to the people, all the nations came and received their land. The Georgians were having a party. They were drinking wine, and they were late. So there was no land left for them. And then Santa Maria said, 'Let them have my land.' "
But there is another Georgia. Just last month Mr. Shevardnadze was ousted in a popular uprising after rigged parliamentary elections. Since independence, the nation of five million people has had its share of post-Soviet problems: poverty, corruption, little concept of a market economy or the rule of law, breakaway republics, ethnic strife, civil unrest and constant power disruptions.
"When you know that the whole world is illuminated, it's as if you are somehow put into prison for God knows what sin or what mistakes," said Lika Basilaia, an investigative journalist featured in "Power Trip," speaking by phone from Tbilisi. As she says in the film, "Electricity is very much connected with the hope in human nature." 
It was hope that more or less led AES into Georgia and Mr. Devlin into the film project. It started after he and his college buddy Piers Lewis took a jeep ride through Turkey, and Mr. Devlin hired a car to take him to Tbilisi, a journey that included paying a Georgian policeman for the privilege of traveling. The engaging, ponytailed Mr. Lewis, who appears often in the film and with whom Mr. Devlin stayed in Tbilisi, was AES's strategic project director for the operation there. 
"Piers is a true believer; he expected that AES would fix the situation," said Mr. Devlin, who is an editor for CBS Sports. His previous film, "SlamNation" (also self-financed), captured the spirit of the wildly energetic poetry competitions of the 1990's. "I think Piers wanted a documentary that would show the progress, show how effective AES had been," he said.
But last summer AES pulled out, selling Telasi to the Russian, state-owned United Energy Systems.
In the film Mr. Lewis says, "Georgians know that we have no idea what we're up against, you know, how it really works here."
Mr. Bakke, speaking about the "40-some countries" AES ventured into in the 1990's, acknowledged, "We didn't always make the right decisions."
Mr. Devlin said, "I got a sense of how sometimes that limitless American optimism doesn't always do the job." Americans "build a system that should work, but they're building it on rubble," he added. "If you don't have the foundation, the structure falls apart, and I think that may apply to other ventures in the world." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); WRITERS (77%); ETHICS (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POLITICS (71%); ELECTIONS (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%) MOTION PICTURES; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

COMPANY: AES CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: AES CORP 

TICKER: AES (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: BASILAIA, LIKA; RAMSEY, NANCY; DEVLIN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) GEORGIA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%) TBILISI (GEORGIA); GEORGIA (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC)

TITLE: POWER TRIP (MOVIE)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



258 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Dividing Reality and Myth In the Fate of the Towers

BYLINE:  By MARTIN FILLER; Martin Filler is architecture critic of The New Republic.

 BODY:
CITY IN THE SKY
The Rise and Fall of the World Trade Center
By James Glanz and Eric Lipton
Illustrated. 428 pages. Times Books/Henry Holt & Company. $26.
 As I sat in shock like millions of others on Sept. 11, 2001, Australian Public Radio asked me to comment on why the World Trade Center had fallen so fast. Putting aside my initial appalled reaction -- "How can you talk about architecture at a time like this?" -- I felt a duty to make some sense of what had happened, at least in physical terms, and before the broadcast called an architect friend for his opinion. 
 These seemingly impregnable behemoths, he told me, went down quickly because they lacked the cagelike internal steel-frame structure typical of tall buildings and were supported instead by metal load-bearing outer walls that hastened the collapse once they were breached. 
This reasonable explanation, which I unquestioningly disseminated, turned out to be the exact opposite of the truth and is corrected, along with a number of other erroneous received ideas, by the authors of this absorbing and disturbing book. 
James Glanz and Eric Lipton's brilliantly reported and profoundly moving but admirably clear-eyed account of the accidental conception, long gestation, difficult birth, brief life and tragic death of the World Trade Center is likely to remain a classic in the already extensive literature on the subject. Without unduly pressing the point or resorting to forced metaphors, Mr. Glanz, a science reporter for The New York Times, and Mr. Lipton, a metropolitan reporter for it, make this history a sobering parable about America's might and its limits over the six decades of their panoramic enterprise. 
It was, in fact, the towers' innovative external engineering that redistributed the walls' structural forces around the gaping holes after the attacks and kept the buildings standing long enough for a vast majority of their occupants to escape. Despite the ghastly death toll, the high survival rate for those in the towers below the impact points of the hijacked jets was no less than a miracle. Had the towers possessed conventional steel skeletons, they would have probably snapped and immediately fallen over, causing more catastrophic collateral damage than they did by crumpling onto their footprints. 
That many more lives were not lost seems even more remarkable when you consider, as the authors point out, that the fireproofing of the towers' roof trusses was dangerously substandard. That problem was a result of the project's being exempt from city safety codes because it fell under the jurisdiction of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, whose secretive workings, Mr. Glanz and Mr. Lipton say, were instrumental in taking this quixotic enterprise outside the spotlight of public accountability.
With a concision that nonetheless allows for expansive historical asides and sharply drawn character sketches, the authors condense immense amounts of previously uncollected information into fewer than 350 pages of actual text. Their history is far superior to those of Angus Kress Gillespie's "Twin Towers: The Life of New York City's World Trade Center" and Eric Darton's "Divided We Stand: A Biography of New York's World Trade Center," books that were published before the disaster and that even then, before the towers' horrible fate was known, seemed incomplete in their comprehension of the complex forces that willed the trade centerinto being. Showing that all public architecture inevitably reflects the political, economic and social conditions that shape it, "City in the Sky" is exceptional in its insight on those interconnected, not to say incestuous, influences in municipal and state government and the world of high finance.
The project all began by chance when China decided to withdraw from the 1939 World's Fair in New York, and a new use had to be found for its abandoned pavilion. A vaguely formulated World Trade Center was installed in that empty space. One of its founding committee members was the well-connected lawyer Winthrop W. Aldrich, an uncle of David and Nelson A. Rockefeller. The Rockefellers, in turn, kept the idea of a New York-based global mercantile agency alive after World War II and ultimately helped make it a reality, although the project metamorphosed into a giant real estate speculation with little direct bearing on international commerce. 
Among several forgotten power brokers whom the authors retrieve from obscurity is the flamboyant New York real estate entrepreneur William Zeckendorf, who first persuaded David Rockefeller to try to stem the flight of corporations to Midtown by building a new headquarters for the Chase Manhattan Bank in Lower Manhattan. That project was a dry run for the vastly more ambitious trade center, but the 13-block, 16-acre site on which the towers would rise was far from the blighted neighborhood its promoters claimed, and the scheme caused a thriving if grubby consumer electronics district to be uprooted. When a feasibility study commissioned by the downtown redevelopment group headed by Mr. Rockefeller predicted that the trade center would be a financial fiasco, the findings were conveniently suppressed. 
The 2001 attack on the World Trade Center is confined to one brief chapter in which Mr. Glanz and Mr. Lipton convey the full horror of the event with a directness and simplicity that make longer narratives seem circuitous and verbose. The spread of cellphones has allowed the authors to piece together a chilling picture of the panic, desperation and resignation of those unable to flee the buildings, including several who heeded the advice of fire marshals and returned to their offices, thinking they were safe havens. The split-second decisions to stay or go, and thus to live or die, force readers to ponder how they would have reacted under those circumstances. 
After finishing "City in the Sky," it is impossible not to feel that the destruction of the World Trade Center is the psychological equivalent of the sinking of the Titanic, an archetypal disaster that similarly undermined belief in the inevitability of progress and the infallibility of technology.

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Glanz; Eric Lipton (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. E10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (79%); LITERATURE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); ENGINEERING (69%); HIJACKING (62%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (61%); HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (61%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (61%)

PERSON: FILLER, MARTIN; GLANZ, JAMES; LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: CITY IN THE SKY (BOOK)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



259 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Backs Virginia In Rift Over Potomac Water 

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court handed Virginia a decisive victory on Tuesday in that state's battle with Maryland over the right to draw drinking water from the Potomac River, which forms most of the boundary between the two states.
 Maryland's undisputed ownership of the entire bed of the river, to the low-water mark on the Virginia shore, does not give it the authority to regulate withdrawals of water that do not interfere with navigation, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote for the court. The vote was 7 to 2, with Justices John Paul Stevens and Anthony M. Kennedy dissenting. 
 Three years ago, Virginia invoked the Supreme Court's so-called original jurisdiction to hear disputes between states after Maryland's Department of the Environment asserted the authority to block Virginia's Fairfax County Water Authority from building a new intake pipe to extend 725 feet from the Virginia shore, near the midpoint of the Potomac channel. 
In Virginia's view, the issue was one of local protectionism, because Fairfax County, its water needs fueled by economic development, competes for business with Montgomery County, Md., directly across the river.
The justices referred the case, Virginia v. Maryland, No. 129 Original, to a special master, Ralph I. Lancaster of Portland, Me. He recommended a ruling for Virginia. The court heard arguments in Maryland's appeal in October.
Chief Justice Rehnquist based his decision on two documents, a 1785 compact between the two states and an arbitration decision from 1877 known as the Black-Jenkins Award. The compact gave the citizens of each state the right to use their respective shores, including "the privilege of making and carrying out wharves and other improvements."
The Black-Jenkins Award for the first time fixed the long-disputed boundary between the two states, giving Virginia "a right to such use of the river beyond the line of low-water mark as may be necessary to the full enjoyment" of its rights as a shoreline landowner.
"The arbitrators did not differentiate between Virginia's dominion over the soil and her right to construct improvements beyond low-water mark," Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote. Accordingly, he said, Virginia had "sovereign authority, free from regulation by Maryland" to take water from the river.
The ruling did not appear to reflect any sectionalism on the part of the justices. Both dissenters, who voted for Maryland, live in Virginia, as do the chief justice and two others in the majority, Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas. Among the others in the majority, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor lives in Maryland and Justices David H. Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer live in the District of Columbia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); VERDICTS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (74%); JURISDICTION (73%) WATER; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS 

COMPANY: FAIRFAX COUNTY WATER AUTHORITY INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) 

PERSON: JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); DAVID SOUTER (58%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%) GREENHOUSE, LINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (54%) MARYLAND, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (95%) MARYLAND; POTOMAC RIVER; VIRGINIA; FAIRFAX COUNTY (VA)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



260 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Attack of the Killer Bras 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SHUN SHUI VILLAGE, China 

 BODY:
The most important thing happening in the world today is the rise of China, and that's the reality hovering in the background of the delicate U.S.-China talks under way in Washington this week.
 So I decided to "cover" the talks not in Washington, where it's easy to be overwhelmed by details of Chinese bra imports and U.S. policy toward Taiwan, but here in southern China's Taishan area, which accounted for a majority of Chinese emigrants to the U.S. until a few decades ago. 
 The descendants of Taishan include my wife, Sheryl WuDunn. (A WuDunn is what you get when you cross a Wu ancestor who doesn't speak English with a U.S. immigration officer who doesn't speak Chinese.) When Sheryl and I first traveled here in 1987, we met her distant cousins, poor peasants who spent their time wading in the rice paddies. The entire clan had about as many teeth as Sheryl does. 
Back then, Shun Shui Village had no paved roads, no motor vehicles, no telephones and three black-and-white televisions. Now, along the paved road through the village, every house has a color television, and most have phones and motorcycles. Among Sheryl's distant kin, the youngest son of parents with only a second-grade education has just graduated from the university and bought a cellphone. (An audio slide show of Taishan is online at nytimes.com/kristof.)
Multiply Shun Shui's transformation by the 700,000 villages of China, and you begin to appreciate the implications of China's industrial revolution. One study has found that China accounted for 25 percent of the world's economic growth from 1995 to 2002 (measured by purchasing power parity), more than the U.S. 
Soaring Chinese demand has become the major force propping up world energy prices, and the International Energy Agency predicts that China will have net oil imports of four million barrels a day by 2010 -- twice Iraq's current oil exports.
Where will that oil come from? What will China's carbon emissions mean for global warming and the New Jersey coastline? Will the U.S. and China go to war over Taiwan, or over the Diaoyu Islands now controlled by Japan? Will China sustain its boom or collapse into chaos?
Instead of engaging on these issues, the White House and both parties in Congress seem intent on launching a new trade war with China. Washington appears unable to focus on anything more weighty than the supposed Chinese dumping of bras and nightgowns in our markets (even though U.S. companies don't make bras). 
That's myopia. There was a wonderful American movie in 1966 called "The Russians Are Coming, the Russians Are Coming," which poked fun at anti-Soviet hysteria. Maybe it's time for an update: "The Chinese Nighties Are Coming!"
President Bush has generally handled China quite sensibly, and it was also smart to warn Taiwan against steps toward independence. China's leaders have reciprocated, and have been especially helpful this year in restraining North Korea.
But with next year's elections approaching, the White House has turned demagogic and begun clubbing China over trade so as to win votes in manufacturing states, while endangering cooperation on a broader agenda. There are plenty of reasons to prod China to behave better -- I know people who are in prison here, including a South Korean photographer (who often shoots pictures for The Times), whose only sin was documenting the plight of North Korean refugees in China. But our trade denunciations are petty and intellectually dishonest.
Unlike Japan a decade ago, China does not have a huge global trade surplus. Its imports are growing faster than its exports, up 40 percent this year. And exports to America grew after factories moved from Taiwan and Hong Kong to the mainland. Moreover, some 52 percent of China's exports come from foreign-owned factories.
One can quibble about China's keeping its currency cheap to promote exports. But China is stabilizing its currency by buying U.S. debt, financing Mr. Bush's budget deficit and keeping U.S. mortgage rates low. 
Managing the rise of China will be one of the world's toughest challenges in coming years. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao is offering Mr. Bush both cooperation and patience, and it ill behooves us to slap him around for selling us cheap bras. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (85%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); EMISSIONS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); TAIWAN (93%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (64%) CHINA; SHUN SHUI VILLAGE (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



261 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1841 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Balance: Growth vs. Culture in Amazon 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: PUMPUENTSA, Ecuador 

 BODY:
As international energy companies move into the Amazon basin to tap some of the last untouched oil and natural gas reserves, more and more natives are fighting to keep them out. 
 Oil workers and contractors have been kidnapped, company officials say. Equipment has been vandalized. Protests, injunctions and lawsuits are piling up as Indian groups grow increasingly savvy in their cooperation with environmentalists. 
 The governments may increasingly regard the Amazon as an engine for economic growth, but native groups are struggling to balance development with the desire to preserve a nearly primordial way of life. 
"Let the military come in, because we will defend to the last," said Medardo Santi, a leader of Kichwa Indians in an unspoiled jungle region that has been mapped for oil exploration in Ecuador, where the dispute is most contentious. "As long as we live here, we will defend our rights." 
How this struggle plays out will determine whether Amazon resources become a critical part of Latin America's development and an important component of the American strategy to diversify energy supplies beyond the Middle East. 
Latin America already provides more oil to the United States than the Middle East does. Plans for new oil and gas fields are speeding ahead, pushed by companies from as far afield as China and including Occidental Petroleum of Los Angeles, Repsol-YPF of Spain, EnCana of Canada and Petrobras of Brazil. 
Governments are increasingly trying to lure investors and identify potential reserves along 1,000 miles of forests and Andean foothills, from Colombia to Bolivia. In Peru, one of the largest energy projects in Latin America is under way, a development that could cost $3.6 billion and include nearly 800 miles of pipeline and coastal plants to ship butane, propane and liquefied natural gas to California by 2007. 
In Brazil, the government plans a multibillion-dollar development that includes a $1 billion project to pipe gas through part of the rain forest. Oil companies are taking the first steps to explore in the Beni and Pando Departments of the Bolivian Amazon. Even Colombia, grappling with relentless guerrilla violence, has mapped out potentially oil-rich Amazonian blocks for prospecting.
But in no country is Amazon oil exploration as potentially lucrative as in Ecuador, a country the size of Nevada that has, for better or worse, hitched the fortunes of its 13 million people to oil. 
The country's 4.6 billion barrels of proven reserves are among the largest in Latin America. Oil already accounts for nearly half its exports. With the recent completion of a $1.3 billion, 300-mile pipeline by a foreign consortium, the government deepened its commitment to eventually doubling production, to 850,000 barrels a day.
If development in the jungle moves unhindered, the Ecuadorean Amazon could yield as much as 26 billion barrels in oil reserves, enough to rival Mexico and Nigeria, according to a hopeful 1999 study by the Ministry of Energy and Mines.
"This basin has a lot of opportunities," said one foreign oil executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of igniting controversy, "if we can get there and work it. That's why we are hanging on."
So far, oil executives and industry analysts say, threats from native groups are still less likely to drive off investors than the government's own tax increases and changes in agreements. But for the companies, dealing with Indians has proved arduous. 
Some have tried to placate tribes with everything from chain saws to outboard motors. Others focus on building schools and clinics. Some employ experienced anthropologists to help make deals. 
"When we did our seismic testing, we suffered kidnappings, fires and robberies," said Ricardo Nicolas, general manager here of Cia. General de Combustibles, an Argentine company that has the contract to develop fields north of Pumpuentsa. "It's been seven years and we haven't been able to get started; seven years and $10 million."
Faced with growing opposition, the government of President Lucio Gutierrez said it was prepared to provide military protection so oil companies could complete the needed seismic tests.
"The petroleum does not belong to them," Carlos Arboleda, Ecuador's minister of energy and mines, said of the native groups. "The oil belongs to the state."
Indian leaders disagree. Even though the Constitution does not give Indians groups the rights to oil and gas, the reality is that unless a company obtains their consent, exploration can be impossible. 
"We are the owners of the jungle," said Antonio Wasump Samaraint, 68, a wrinkled elder who wore the red-and-yellow feathered headband of the Achuar. "We have always rejected the petroleum companies." 
Much of the riches, Mr. Arboleda said in an interview, will come from drilling in jungle regions, like the Ishpingo, Tambococha and Tiputini fields in the east, that are among the most ecologically sensitive. The government says these areas contain as much as 2 billion barrels in heavy crude oil, which could one day mean 200,000 barrels a day of production. "The future is in the exploitation of all those areas," Mr. Arboleda said.
That future will be increasingly uncertain and conflict-ridden, many oil executives concede, without some compromise and compensation for the Indians who live there. 
Quietly, they have started prodding the government to ensure that the $30 million or so they pay in taxes each year to a special Amazon development fund reaches the villages. 
Little of that money, indigenous leaders and company officials agree, has brought tangible benefits in the east, where tribal leaders complain of bare-bones schools, rutted roads and rudimentary health services.
"The money goes to the big cities, to build big roads," said Santiago Kawarim, 36, an Achuar leader and teacher. "The money never goes to these communities." 
Here in the softly rolling hills and lush rain forests of Pastaza Province, in southeastern Ecuador, environmentalists are determined to head off any exploration by making a stand at two blocks, almost a million acres in all, that have already been mapped for drilling. 
The northern one, Block 23, is to be developed by Mr. Nicolas and his Argentine company. The southern block, No. 24, is operated by Burlington Resources of Houston.
"We believe 23 and 24 can be a kind of Waterloo for the oil industry in the Amazon," said Kenny Bruno, who coordinates campaigns in Ecuador and elsewhere for EarthRights International, an American group.
Three tribes here -- Kichwa, Achuar and Shuar, each with a few thousand members -- have become equally adroit at making their case before government officials in Quito or at the Organization of American States in Washington and at shareholder meetings in Houston.
The tribes owe much of their effectiveness to American environmental groups like Amazon Watch, the Pachamama Alliance and Earthrights International, which help organize protests, supply airplanes and set up meetings with American legislators.
The Kichwa people of Sarayaku, the main town in Block 23, are among the most sophisticated. Their leaders operate a budding ecotourism business. Their Web site, www.sarayaku.com, gives a play by play in their battle against oil drilling, and a New York public relations firm has contacted the media on the group's behalf. Though oil officials say those trappings have corrupted indigenous leaders, tribal members say the contacts have made them more adept at defending their territory.
"They've accused us of being terrorists and now they say we are being manipulated by nongovernmental organizations," said Patricia Gualinga, a Kichwa leader who frequently travels to Quito and abroad to make her case. "They also say it is one community that is resisting. It is not. It is an entire people."
For manyindigenous leaders, opposition to big oil is colored by the destruction that befell northern Ecuador and the region around Lago Agrio. There, a Texaco subsidiary left widespread pollution, dumping waste into waterways and leaving behind hundreds of unlined pits brimming with toxic wastewater, a lawsuit filed in New York -- and later in Ecuador -- has charged.
ChevronTexaco -- Texaco merged with Chevron in 2001 -- denies causing the pollution, but the case recently went to trial in Lago Agrio. It has yet to be decided, but the publicity has given fresh momentum to oil's opponents.
"People in the south have a historic perspective of the oil industry: what happened in the north," said Patricio Pazminio, a lawyer with the Center for Economic and Social Rights, a group in Quito that is helping the Indians. "So when the companies talk of extending activities into the south, people worry."
For oil company representatives like Herb Vickers, an American who has worked on oil development in Ecuador for seven years, such talk is frustrating.
He said that when he oversaw development of Block 10, to the north of Sarayaku, for Arco, the company employed the most modern technology to protect the jungle. Using helicopters to bring in equipment, a pipeline was laid without having to construct a road, because that would have meant a corridor for colonists and their vast clear-cutting of forests.
Drilling in Block 10 is conducted from a single site, a six-acre tract with 12 wells, instead of rigs spread across a broad area. Special drill bits are steered to dispersed underground reserves. Waste brought up with the oil is treated and reinjected into the ground. 
"We believe, very strongly, that exploration and production can be done in an environmentally friendly manner," Mr. Vickers said.
Many indigenous people say they want improvements; the question is exactly what, and through what means. Some changes, like clinics or schools, are welcome. Others, like petroleum production, are often not. 
"The majority of these people face an incomprehensible world," said Teodoro Bustamante, an anthropologist and expert on indigenous groups. "They want to selectively incorporate features from the modern world. They want an airplane. They want a radio. They want medicines. The problem is, it is very hard to selectively incorporate."
In Canelos, a Kichwa community on the Bobonaza River on the edge of Block 23, villagers said they welcomed the oil companies because they would bring improvements. But villagers knew little about how those improvements would come, or in what form. All they knew was that their community was impoverished.
"We want to change, we want to develop," said Edwin Illanes, 29, one of the leaders. "Here, there's no water. There is no light. We have no paved road. Nothing."
But across a swath of forest in Sarayaku, the main Kichwa town, people were virtually united in their opposition. Villagers gathered by the dozens in a communal meeting hall next to the soccer field to condemn any plan for oil exploration.
Members of the tribe acknowledged their poverty. But as Ambrosia Malaver, an elderly woman who spoke in her native tongue, put it: "We live barefoot like our ancestors, and that's what we want."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Indians in a recent protest at a courthouse in Lago Agrio, Ecuador. The indigenous people, angered by the encroachment of oil and gas exploration, are becoming increasingly sophisticated in resisting development. (Photo by Scott Dalton for The New York Times)(pg. A1); A Kichwa tends his canoe in Sarayaku, deep in Ecuador's Amazon; Achuar children play in Pumpuentsa. Amazon Indians want to maintain their cultures undiluted by oil and gas development. But to do so, they have had to become more integrated into the legal system and environmental advocacy. (Photographs by Scott Dalton for The New York Times)(pg. A17) Chart/Map: "Pressure on the Indians of the Amazon"Blocks of undeveloped rain forest planned for oil exploration in Peru and Ecuador overlap with land claimed by indigenous people. Map of South America highlighting Amazon shows: ForestNonforestPipelineProposedOil or gas fieldExploration blocks (active and available for exploration; offshore blocks not shown)Indigenous people (approximate locations of known population centers) (Sources by Burlington Resources; Petroecuador; Peruvian Ministry of Energy; Interethnic Association for the Development of the Peruvian Amazon; Amazon Financial Information Service)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (89%); BUTANE (78%); RAIN FORESTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); PROPANE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); INJUNCTIONS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); RIOTS (60%); RIVERS (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES; INDIANS, AMERICAN; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; GAS (FUEL); ENERGY AND POWER; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

COMPANY: REPSOL SA (82%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (55%); PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (54%)

TICKER: REP (MCE) (82%); OXY (NYSE) (55%); PETR3 (BOVESPA) (54%); PBR (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (55%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%)

PERSON: ;FORERO, JUAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ANDES (79%) ECUADOR (97%); PERU (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BOLIVIA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); SPAIN (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) AMAZON RIVER BASIN; LATIN AMERICA; ECUADOR; BRAZIL; COLOMBIA; PERU; ANDES MOUNTAINS; PUMPUENTSA (ECUADOR)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



262 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
States Turning to Private Managers of Public Buildings

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
Only a few steps from the State Capitol here stands the Finance Building, a buff-colored neo-Classical brick structure built in 1895, with a portico that echoes the one Thomas Jefferson designed for its neighbor. 
 Once a revered symbol of Richmond's rebirth after Reconstruction, the 72,000-square-foot Finance Building (so named because it used to house the state treasurer's office) now seems more like a symbol of neglect. Its cornice is crumbling, its roof leaks, and it has been empty for more than two decades while the state spends $15 million a year to lease office space in other buildings. 
 Like many other states, Virginia, which owns 11,000 buildings and has 1,350 leases, has not always taken a businesslike approach to its real estate portfolio, state officials said in recent interviews.
 More than 100 agencies have often operated autonomously in making leasing decisions, James T. Roberts, the director of the state Department of General Services, said. "You might have a Department of Corrections need a probation office and go out and do their thing," he said, "but with no coordination with the Health Department, which happens to be negotiating for an office down the block." 
 Recently, Virginia hired CB Richard Ellis Consulting, a unit of CB Richard Ellis, the giant real estate services company, to review its property management practices and advise the state on making them more efficient. Ellis is charged with finding $30 million in savings over the next two years, said Jeff Waters, a senior managing director of the consulting group. 
 Virginia is not the first state to seek help from private real estate companies. In the mid-90's, Ellis identified ways that New Jersey could save more than $40 million over a 10-year period, said Rolf Kemen, a managing director.
 But these days, there is new urgency in the need to find millions of dollars in savings and to use assets more productively, as state officials across the country grapple with what the National Conference of State Legislatures estimates is a three-year cumulative budget gap of about $200 billion. So a number of states -- among them, Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, Colorado, Texas and Florida -- have hired or are about to hire real estate services companies to devise strategic plans for selling parts of their portfolios, making smarter leasing decisions or, in some cases, privatizing management of the properties.
 More states are expected to follow suit. Peter S. Brooks, a principal of the accounting and consulting firm Ernst & Young, which has teamed up with Jones Lang LaSalle, the real estate company, to bid for the Illinois real estate assets contract, said he had talked with officials of at least 15 states in the last few months.
 Among the strategies that save states money is encouraging agencies to move together to lease space in the same building, real estate specialists say. "By co-locating," Mr. Kemen said, "you have more leverage over the landlord." States can also use help in assessing the office market, he said, so that they avoid being stuck with a lease that is about to expire just as rents have reached their peak.
 Michigan, which has been particularly hard hit by the loss of manufacturing jobs, has brought in the Staubach Company to help it "get into a more cutting-edge management of our real estate portfolio," said Mitch Irwin, the director of the state Department of Management and Budget. As evidence of the need for such a shift, he cited the example of one agency, the Department of Community Health, that maintains 13 separate offices in Lansing.
 The state also hopes to sell about $100 million worth of property, some of it no longer needed because a work force of 55,000 has been reduced by 8,200 in the last year, he said.
 Michigan has specifically decided against outsourcing the management of property it owns, Mr. Irwin said. Not so Illinois, according to Michael M. Rumman, director of that state's Central Management Services. Citing a $5 billion budget deficit, he said Illinois had determined that turning over the operations of state real estate to a private contractor would not only be cost-effective but also allow state agencies to focus on the functions they perform best.
 Illinois, which is on the verge of selecting a company to negotiate a real estate services contract with, expects to save only about $14 million in the first year and $30 million in the second, Mr. Rumman said. "It may take us 10 years to capture the new efficiency of the model we're trying to create," he said. 
 In a separate real estate project, Illinois has included in its current budget a plan to either sell outright or sell and then lease back the James R. Thompson Center in downtown Chicago, a building designed by Helmut Jahn. But the glassy 17-story, 74,000-square-foot building, with offices surrounding an atrium, has not attracted any buyers. In the absence of a buyer, the state plans to sell municipal bonds backed by the Thompson Center, whose value is estimated around $200 million.
 Some analysts frown on issuing debt against existing buildings. "It's not novel, but it's not good practice," said Robert A. Kurtter, a senior vice president at Moody's Investors Service, which downgraded the Illinois bond rating in May, primarily because of the weak economy and the decline in state tax collections. "No roads or schools are built," Mr. Kurtter said. "It's taking the cash value of a building and using it to fund a budget gap."
 Mr. Rumman -- defending the planned sale of the Thompson Building and of the 185,000-square-foot Illinois State Toll Highway Authority headquarters in suburban Downers Grove, valued at $20 million to $30 million -- said that "monetizing" these assets was a reasonable alternative to raising taxes.
 While the states seeking real estate help have similar objectives, they have devised different ways of paying for the services. Virginia is spending $380,000 on the first phase of the Ellis study, Mr. Roberts said, with the rest of the fee to be negotiated later. For its work in Michigan, Staubach will earn commissions from real estate transactions rather than fees from the state, Mr. Irwin said. And in Illinois, the contractor's compensation will be based on whether savings targets are achieved, Mr. Rumman said.
 Sandra D. Bowen, the secretary of administration in Virginia, who oversees the General Services Administration, said decisions about state-owned property sometimes involve emotional or historical issues that are not necessarily consistent with commercial values. "It's not always a perfect fit," she said, citing the dispute over what to do with the Finance Building.
 But in April, Gov. Mark Warner authorized the sale of $118.5 million in bonds to help finance the rehabilitation of the State Capitol and surrounding buildings in Capitol Square. Virginia officials are now reviewing a $100 million proposal by Trammell Crow to expand and rehabilitate the Finance Building, renovate the adjacent 122,000-square-foot Washington Building and replace two aging former hotels with new office space, said Stephen G. Shelesky, a Trammell Crow managing director.
 Trammell Crow was one of five companies that submitted unsolicited bids for this work last spring. After winning the first round of bidding, Mr. Shelesky said, his company shouldered a lot of the design and engineering costs that would normally have been borne by the state in a cumbersome and time-consuming procurement process. "We were cheaper and we were faster," he said. 
 Mr. Waters of Richard Ellis said that when many corporations began outsourcing their real estate requirements in the late 1980's, he expected governments to follow. Instead, he said, many states found themselves with budget surpluses in the 90's, and the incentives to use space efficiently vanished.
 "Now," he said, "they're doing it under pressure. They have a gun to their head, and they may not make the best decisions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The western portico of Virginia's Finance Building. Officials are considering a private rehabilitation plan. (Photo by Dean Hoffmeyer for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"Value of residential construction contracts, seasonally adjusted annual rate through October. Graph tracks contracts in the Northeast, Midwest, South, and West (in billions) from 2000 through 2003. NATIONAL IN BILLIONS OCT. 2002: $262.6AUG. 2003: 295.4SEPT. 2003: 302.9OCT. 2003: 299.2 (Source by McGraw-Hill Construction/Dodge) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (87%); CONSULTING SERVICES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COMPANY STRATEGY (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); TRENDS (66%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (65%); ACCOUNTING (65%) PUBLIC BUILDINGS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: JONES LANG LASALLE INC (58%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CB RICHARD ELLIS; ERNST & YOUNG; JONES LANG LASALLE INC; STAUBACH COMPANY 

TICKER: JLL (NYSE) (58%); CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%)

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (88%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) VIRGINIA; ILLINOIS; MICHIGAN

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



263 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
TheDow Breaks Through 10,000 Before Falling Back

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average rose briefly above 10,000 yesterday, the first time the average has been above this psychologically important level in more than 18 months.
 But the Dow and the overall market retreated in the afternoon when Federal Reserve policy makers provided their first hint of the need to raise interest rates sometime next year, although they left their short-term interest rate benchmark unchanged. Treasury prices also fell as yields moved higher and the dollar slipped against the euro. 
 The Dow has been flirting with 10,000 for several weeks, and after jumping 102.59 points on Monday to 9,965.27, the Dow looked poised for a break through. 
 The 10,000 level was breached about nine minutes after trading opened, with the Dow rising to 10,003.05. But the Dow slipped back quickly. It made another run to 9,999.05 just after the Fed announced its decision at 2:15 p.m. Eastern time.
 At the close, the Dow was down 41.85 points, or 0.4 percent, to 9,923.42. The Nasdaq composite index, which briefly passed 2,000 in intraday trading last week, tumbled 40.53 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,908.32. And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 9.12 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,060.18.
 The price of the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note, which was up about a third of a point before the Fed announcement, was off 21/32 to 99 6/32 in late trading, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 4.35 percent from 4.27 percent on Monday.
 The euro was valued at $1.2237 in late trading, up from $1.2228 on Monday, while the dollar was at 106.79 yen, down from 107.38 on Monday. Since the beginning of the month, the dollar is down 2 percent against the euro and 2.3 percent against the yen.
 Many investors appeared to be focusing more on the Fed meeting in Washington than Dow 10,000. While there were no big surprises in the announcement, Fed officials did change their view on inflation and that seemed to undercut the stock and bond markets in the afternoon.
 Until yesterday, policy makers on the Federal Open Market Committee have said that the threat of "an unwelcome fall in inflation" outweighed the risk of a rise in prices and for this reason the Fed would keep short-term rates low "for a considerable period."
 Their statement changed yesterday, saying that "the probability of an unwelcome fall in inflation has diminished in recent months and now appears almost equal to that of a rise in inflation."
 For some investors and analysts, this change on inflation is the first step in laying the groundwork for raising interest rates next year. Analysts and forecasters have been saying for some time that they expected the Fed to begin raising rates in the summer or fall of 2004.
 In yesterday's statement, the Fed justified keeping the "considerable period" phrase by saying, "With inflation quite low and resource use slack, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be maintained for a considerable period."
 Wall Street analysts did not expect the Fed to raise its benchmark interest rate, which is at a 45-year low of 1 percent. Some were expecting the Fed to adjust the "considerable period" language, but the inflation wording was changed.
 "The tactics were different than people thought but the message was the same," said Josh Feinman, chief economist at Deutsche Asset Management. Despite the change in inflation language, Mr. Feinman said, "the basic message is that they are not likely to move rates any time soon." He said a rate increase was unlikely before the middle of next year.
 David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, said that the result of the statement was a little confusion in the markets as some argued that the shift on inflation hinted at a move sooner on rates while the keeping of the "considerable period" wording meant things had not changed.
 General Motors was among the gainers yesterday, up $1.27 to $48.41, Walt Disney rose 53 cents to $22.30, while Honeywell International added 29 cents, to $30.48.
 Among the losers, Intel dropped $1.39 to $30.25, Texas Instruments shed 75 cents, to $27.49, while Corning shed 56 cents to $9.89.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.930
High Rate: 0.895
Coupon Yield: 0.916
Low Rate: 0.870
Median Rate: 0.895
Total applied for: $48,687,226
Accepted: $18,004,561
Noncompetitive: $37,732
The four-week bills mature Jan. 8, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks securities (one month ago and yesterday) for both 3-6 months and 2-30 years maturity. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); EURO (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



264 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Fed Statement on Interest Rates 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to leave interest rates unchanged:
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 1 percent. 
 The committee continues to believe that an accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing important ongoing support to economic activity. The evidence accumulated over the intermeeting period confirms that output is expanding briskly, and the labor market appears to be improving modestly. Increases in core consumer prices are muted and expected to remain low. 
 The committee perceives that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters are roughly equal. The probability of an unwelcome fall in inflation has diminished in recent months and now appears almost equal to that of a rise in inflation. However, with inflation quite low and resource use slack, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be maintained for a considerable period. 
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; J. Alfred Broaddus Jr.; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Edward M. Gramlich; Jack Guynn; Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Mark W. Olson; and Robert T. Parry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



265 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: Lender's Revenue Rises 

BYLINE:  By Alan Cowell (NYT) 

 BODY:
 HSBC, the bank based in London, said that third-quarter revenue grew as consumer lending expanded in the United States and Britain, offsetting low interest rates. 
The company did not provide specific figures but said part of the growth was a result of its $15 billion acquisition of Household International, a lender based in Prospect Heights, Ill.; that deal was completed in March. The bank also said defaults on consumer loans declined. HSBC plans to release its annual results on March 1. Alan Cowell (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (87%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: HSBC HOLDINGS LTD 

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



266 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Germany: Investor Confidence Rises 

BYLINE:  By Petra Kappl (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Investor confidence in Germany rose to its highest in two and a half years last month, according to a survey. 
The index compiled by the ZEW Center for European Economic Research found that investor confidence rose to 73.4 percent in November from 67.2 percent in October. The institute said a Europewide index showed a similar increase. Economists said the optimism was based on faster economic growth in Germany, helped by the recovery in the United States. Another German research institute, DIW, raised its forecast for economic growth in the fourth quarter to 0.5 percent from 0.25 percent a day earlier. Petra Kappl (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: ZEW CENTER FOR EUROPEAN ECONOMIC RESEARCH; DIW (GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE) 

PERSON: KAPPL, PETRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (67%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



267 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Fed Keeps Rates Steady But Paves Way forRise 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L.ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve kept its benchmark short-term interest rate at 1 percent on Tuesday, the lowest level in 45 years, but it laid the groundwork for a gradual tightening of monetary policy next year.
 In a significant shift by the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy, the Fed said the risk of "an unwelcome fall in inflation has diminished in recent months and now appears almost equal to that of a rise in inflation." 
 That was a retreat from the Fed's language of the last several months, when it justified its policy of rock-bottom interest rates in large part on concern that the risks of declining prices, or deflation, were greater than those of inflation. At the same time, the Fed moved again to soothe investors by repeating its assertion that inflation remains low enough to allow a policy of cheap money "for a considerable period." 
 Analysts and investors had been focused on that phrase in the run-up to Tuesday's meeting, with some predicting that the Fed would drop it and implicitly abandon its open-ended commitment to low rates.
 But Fed officials turned the tables, repeating the soothing phrase while at the same time alerting investors that they are no longer much worried about Japanese-style deflation. 
 "Make no mistake, yesterday's statement is immensely significant," wrote Ian Shepherdson, North American analyst at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm in Valhalla, N.Y. "The groundwork for the first hike is being laid." 
 Investors reacted immediately, though without tumult. Bond investors demanded modestly higher yields on Treasury notes and bonds in anticipation of higher interest rates in the future. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes climbed to 4.35 percent late Tuesday afternoon from 4.27 percent on Monday.
 The dollar, which has fallen sharply against the euro and other leading currencies, drifted down a bit more against the Japanese yen, to a rate of 106.79, and slipped to another low against the euro, which settled at $1.2237.
 In stock trading, the Dow Jones industrial average -- after briefly climbing past the 10,000 level before the Fed's announcement -- fell back in the afternoon, closing down 0.42 percent. Technology stocks were hit harder, with the Nasdaq composite index losing 2 percent of its value. 
 The Fed's rate-setting committee, in a statement after its meeting on Tuesday, acknowledged that economic growth and the job market had improved since its last meeting, on Oct. 28. "Output is expanding briskly," it said, "and the labor market appears to be improving modestly." For the first time in several months, it did not express concern about weak "pricing power," the ability of companies to demand higher prices.
 Instead, it noted that "increases in core consumer prices are muted and expected to remain low." Then it abandoned its previous statements about the risks of an "unwelcome fall in inflation." 
"However, with inflation quite low and resource use slack," it added, "the committee believes that policy accommodation can be maintained for a considerable period."
 Analysts said, though, that the Fed was still viewing the economic recovery as fragile and in need of special care. 
 Robert Gay, an economist at Commerzbank Securities in New York, said: "The Fed needs to have constant data over numerous months to be convinced that the economy is out of the woods. They're starting to say that it's clearing, but until you can actually see the sunlight, it's reasonable for them to not change policy dramatically."
 A growing number of analysts have begun to say that the Fed needs to start tightening its grip. The economy expanded at an annual pace of 8.2 percent in the third quarter, the fastest in nearly 20 years, and unemployment has edged downward.
 And while consumer prices continue to climb at an annual rate just slightly above 1 percent, prices for a growing number of commodities are increasing. Gold prices, which have surged in the last few months, settled at $407.75 an ounce on Tuesday, the highest level in almost eight years. Silver prices also rose. 
 Those increases reflect the declining value of the dollar, as foreign suppliers adjust prices to reflect exchange rates, but some of that also reflects surging demand for raw materials in the United States and China.
 Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has thus far seemed largely unconcerned about those price rises. In speeches, he and other Fed officials have instead focused on the slackness of the job market and the continued excess capacity of factories.
 Unemployment declined in November, to 5.9 percent from 6 percent, but job growth continues to be modest in comparison with most previous recoveries. The economy has added about 300,000 jobs in the last three months, but economists estimate that about 250,000 more jobs a month would be needed to bring the unemployment rate down significantly from current levels.
 Part of the reason is surging productivity, which has allowed companies to increase production without adding workers. Productivity shot up to 9.2 percent in the third quarter, hindering job creation but keeping down pressure for higher wages.
 Robert DiClemente, an economist with Citigroup, said the Fed's announcement made rate increases unlikely until at least August.
 "They certainly are recognizing what everyone senses, which is that the character of the recovery is changing," Mr. DiClemente said. "At the same time, they are pretty pointed in saying that they expected inflation to remain low."
 Based on prices in the futures market, where traders bet on the direction of the Federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks, many investors assume that the Fed will raise rates a quarter-point by June. 
 But Jan Hatzius, a Goldman, Sachs economist, said he remained convinced that the first rate increase would not come until the start of 2005, in part because growth may slow in the second half of next year and in part because the Fed does not like to raise rates shortly before elections.
 "They recognized the better growth outlook but reiterated their intention to keep interest rates low until the excess slack in the economy has been used up and inflation has risen," Mr. Hatzius wrote in a research note on Tuesday. "This is unlikely to happen until 2005." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); DEFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EURO (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CLIMBING (75%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



268 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Restaurant Hiring May Lead the Way To Wider Job Gains 

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
The restaurant industry has gone on a hiring spree over the last four months, suggesting that broader gains in the job market could be on the way.
 Since the beginning of August, the restaurant business, which includes everything from McDonald's to corner bars to four-star restaurants, has accounted for 18 percent of the 300,000 jobs created in the nation. 
 Some economists say that an increase in low-wage jobs, which include most restaurant work, indicates that the job market over all will soon bounce back. During the economic doldrums of the early 1990's, hiring began to increase in the restaurant industry about six months before job creation began taking off. The striking fact of this economic recovery, like the previous one, has been how long it has lasted without igniting job growth. 
"Things appear to be picking up," said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group in Washington. "But given their continuing caution about labor costs, employers are more likely to hire low-wage workers, including restaurant workers, than they would be to commit to a permanent hire in the manufacturing industry or the white-collar sector."
The restaurant business, which has about $420 billion in annual sales in the United States, accounts for 6.6 percent of economic activity and has 11.7 million workers, according to the National Restaurant Association. When consumers are willing to spend more freely, the business tends to benefit directly. "Dining out is generally considered a discretionary item," said Richard D. Rippe, the chief economist at Prudential Securities. "As income rises, there's more willingness to do that. Now, as we begin to get a little better employment cyclically and as consumer confidence gradually improves, I think that would be a plus as well."
 While wages are relatively low for restaurant workers, the jobs are not all at the bottom of the wage scale or always without benefits. Even burger restaurants pay new hires well above the federal minimum wage, which is $5.15 an hour.
 The fastest-growing category includes nonalcoholic beverage and snack shops like Starbucks and Dunkin' Donuts, according to the National Restaurant Association.
 Much of the growth, though, is coming from what are called fast-casual restaurants like Applebee's, Chili's Grill & Bar and Red Lobster, which have become popular with consumers more interested in a full-service meal than a burger on the go. These family-friendly restaurants are springing up more often than fast-food outlets. That is partly because McDonald's and Burger King have opened fewer restaurants in the last year to concentrate on increasing sales at existing ones.
 Entry-level jobs in coffee shops and table-service restaurants typically offer higher wages than their fast-food counterparts and some even offer benefit plans, restaurant stock analysts said. Restaurant companies, which are competing against one another to attract and retain workers, are offering incentives like job training and the prospect of promotion to management as well.
 Darden Restaurants, which owns Red Lobster, Olive Garden and Bahama Breeze, said it planned to open about 70 restaurants by the spring. Each will have about 100 workers, and hourly employees can qualify for a medical plan. The company has also created an internal Web site with information for workers on topics like handling personal finances and managing stress.
 At Brinker International, which owns Chili's, Romano's Macaroni Grill and On the Border, employees are given flexible hours and time off to participate in charitable events. The hiring demand is evident in Cherry Hill, N.J., an affluent suburb of Philadelphia, where restaurants encircle the large shopping mall, which includes Macy's and Strawbridge's. 
 At Outback Steakhouse down the street, there is a help-wanted sign in the window. Jeff Arnold, the owner of the Cherry Hill restaurant, said he had hired 70 people since September and is still looking for workers, even though he is not short of staff.
 "I'm always hiring because if someone good comes in the door, I'd be a fool to turn them down," Mr. Arnold said.
 Stephanie Maddox, the general manager for a nearby Chili's restaurant, said that she, too, was hiring, citing competition for workers.
 "Other restaurants open in the area all the time, so we always have a sign up," Ms. Maddox said. "In the past six months, a Bahama Breeze has opened around us; Applebee's has opened up; there's a Subway down the street." Employees, Ms. Maddox added, often "want to try out different things; they might think the grass is greener on the other side." 
 If curiosity sets in, there are plenty of opportunities for restaurant workers to switch employers. Consider the growth in coffee shops, where sales have grown rapidly.
 Worldwide, Starbucks opens an average of three restaurants every day. It hires 200 employees a day, offering health benefits and stock options to many of them in the United States. So far in 2003, Dunkin' Donuts has opened about 500 restaurants, mostly in the United States, adding some 15,000 workers to its payroll. Because the shops are owned by franchisees, the company said it could not say how many provide health benefits, though some local operators do.
 Mike J. Whalen, the area general manager for Dunkin' Donuts in Cherry Hill, said he had been adding to his staff since January. He offers medical benefits to full-time and hourly workers.
 "We just added espresso," Mr. Whalen, said. "When they go national in January, we're probably going to need somebody just to run that machine. They don't have to be young people -- just fast."
 Some economists caution that hiring by restaurants has not always been a precursor to a brighter job market. In several economic recoveries before the 1990's, the overall job market improved before restaurant hiring resumed. The wave of restaurant hiring could also lose steam, economists said, if business activity does not continue to build.
 "What we don't see are hires in manufacturing and professional services," which tend to be higher-wage jobs, said Mr. Bernstein, the economist. 
 Restaurant companies are usually loath to disclose what they pay because of competition. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, wages of hourly restaurant workers rose in October to about $7.74 an hour, or 1.6 percent, from the month a year earlier. Some restaurateurs in search of workers are more willing to describe how much their employees make. At the Chili's in Cherry Hill, hostesses can make $9 an hour. Hourly workers at the nearby Dunkin' Donuts make about $7.50 an hour, a manager said. 
 These businesses, with plenty of competitors nearby, not only want to attract workers but to stem the high turnover endemic in the industry. At restaurants where the average check is less than $25, there is about a 65 percent annual turnover rate among hourly employees, according to the National Restaurant Association. 
 "When you survey operators about their greatest challenges, labor supply and quality is always a big challenge for them," said Hudson Riehle, the senior vice president for research at the National Restaurant Association. "Consequently, you've seen the industry invest more in training the employees. When you have more employees that are actually trained on working in restaurants, the skill level is increased and the wage level generally follows."
 The search for employees who view the restaurant industry as a possible career has at least one McDonald's franchisee near Cherry Hill scouting for management recruits. Edward Baim, who owns 11 McDonald's restaurants in southern New Jersey and Philadelphia, makes recruiting trips to colleges and vocational schools and promotes jobs in the food industry. 
 "It just boggles my mind when we see all these things on TV about people who are out of a job," Mr. Baim said. "I can point to people in my organization that started as a burger flipper and are now making $70,000."
 "Anybody that really wants to work could find a position. I've probably got two or three open right now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anthony Cortese, above left, manager of the Melrose Diner in South Philadelphia, interviews a prospective employee, Salvatore Mazzotta. Curtis Sumpter, below, rings up drinks at Applebee's in Manhattan. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times); (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Chart: "Awaiting a Repeat"In the 24 months after the recession ended in 1991, employment rose in the restaurant industry before it did in the overall work force. Economists say that may be happening again. Graphs track year-to-year percentage change in employment from 1991-2003 for food service and beverage and total nonfarm payroll. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (96%); EMPLOYMENT (95%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (78%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FAST CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); FAMILY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (65%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (60%) RESTAURANTS; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (54%) APPLEBEE'S INTERNATIONAL INC; STARBUCKS CORP; DUNKIN DONUTS; RED LOBSTER RESTAURANTS 

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (81%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (81%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (56%) ;DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



269 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Putin Tries to Dismiss Any Talk Of Urging Constitutional Change 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin spoke out pre-emptively on Tuesday against those who, he said, hoped to turn the results of the parliamentary elections on Sunday into a mandate to amend Russia's still young Constitution.
 "The Constitution has become the basis of stability in society," Mr. Putin said in televised remarks to regional lawmakers at the Kremlin. "And our task is to stop all talk about the necessity of changing the Constitution and to concentrate our attention on something different: how to preserve the Constitution within the framework in which we live." 
 In the balloting on Sunday, the political party loyal to Mr. Putin, United Russia, won 37 percent of the vote, the largest percentage of any party since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. 
Although the exact composition of Parliament's 450 seats will not be official until next week, United Russia is projected to control roughly half outright, giving Mr. Putin the freedom to enact legislation.
With the support of independent deputies and two nationalistic parties, the Liberal Democratic Party and Motherland, the Kremlin may be able to rely on a two-thirds majority, enough to amend the Constitution.
Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky, the xenophobic and nationalistic leader of the Liberal Democrats, reveled in his party's strong showing to call for constitutional changes to extend the presidential term and reduce the size of Parliament.
"The four-year presidential term is the American term," Mr. Zhirinovsky said at a news conference in the wee hours of Monday, The Moscow Times reported. "The czars ruled for about 15 years each. The general secretaries had 15-year terms on average."
Mr. Putin, who is universally expected to win a second term in presidential elections scheduled for March, made it clear that he hoped to use the results on Sunday to press ahead with reforms, but not constitutional changes.
He noted that Friday will be the 10th anniversary of Russia's Constitution, written after the violent parliamentary uprising that Boris N. Yeltsin crushed in 1993.
"The importance of the document for our country, for Russia's legal development and for raising its international status is hard to overestimate," Mr. Putin said. "It contains the basis for the development of a market economy and for the development of democracy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; CONSTITUTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%) PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); MYERS, STEVEN LEE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



270 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Bush Lauds China Leader As 'Partner' In Diplomacy 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
President Bush welcomed the Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao, to the White House on Tuesday, declaring that Washington and Beijing are now "partners in diplomacy" and bluntly warning Taiwan that he opposed any attempt to change its relationship with the mainland, even through a referendum.
 White House officials said Mr. Bush's comments were aimed at "preserving the peace in the Taiwan Strait." But his words fueled an argument with his base, leading some conservatives to call the president's comment "a mistake" and term it "appeasement of a dictatorship." 
 Mr. Bush's warning to Taiwan was motivated by President Chen Shu-bian's move to hold a referendum to condemn China's buildup of ballistic missiles aimed at the island -- a move the administration views as an election-year ploy. Mr. Bush was clearly prepared with an answer to a question about the referendum, which Taiwan says will proceed. 
"The comments and actions made by the leader of Taiwan indicate that he may be willing to make decisions unilaterally to change the status quo, which we oppose," Mr. Bush said.
 Hours later in Taipei, Mr. Chen responded on Wednesday, and for the second consecutive time said the referendum would be held, Reuters reported. Calling the referendum "defensive," he said it was intended to "avoid war and eliminate the people's fear." 
On Tuesday night, Mr. Wen addressed several hundred business executives and China experts and in a rare departure from his prepared speech, described watching his family's house burn during the Japanese occupation of China. 
He told his audience how Mr. Bush, knowing Mr. Wen's interest in Lincoln, took him Tuesday morning to the Lincoln Bedroom to examine a handwritten copy of the Gettysburg Address. He later cited Lincoln's effort to hold the Union together to justify keeping Taiwan from separating "under the signboard of democracy."
Mr. Wen's welcome underscored how much China's standing in Washington has changed. Mr. Bush came to office dismissing the Clinton administration's talk of China as a "strategic partner," and characterized China instead as a "strategic competitor." 
Mr. Wen, a former geologist who rose in the ranks of the Communist Party, was given treatment that the Bush administration has so far accorded to no other No. 2 official from abroad. On the South Lawn on Tuesday morning, he reviewed the troops, observed a Colonial fife-and-drum performance, and received a 19-gun salute, two shots shy of those given a head of state. 
Mr. Bush spent much of his first meeting with Mr. Wen discussing the turmoil over North Korea's nuclear program, in which China is playing a critical role as mediator and a conduit of messages. Just hours before the two men met, North Korea said that in return for the right concessions it might consider re-freezing its nuclear program, bringing the situation back to roughly what it was a year ago, before the North began turning nuclear fuel rods into bomb material.
Mr. Bush rejected the proposal. "The goal of the United States is not for a freeze of the nuclear program," he said. "The goal is to dismantle a nuclear weapons program in a verifiable and irreversible way." 
Later, a senior administration official involved in the North Korean talks said Mr. Wen indicated "we have not yet reached the point" where North Korea is ready for talks with the United States, Japan, South Korea, China and Russia. The administration had hoped for talks before the end of the year.
The official also acknowledged, for the first time, that North Korea had used the past year to add to its nuclear arsenal. Asked if the North had produced additional plutonium fuel or actual weapons, the official said: "I would mean both. But I can't be specific because I don't think we know" the amounts.
On the most politically potent issue of the visit, China's surging $120 billion trade surplus with the United States, Mr. Wen offered conciliatory words and few concrete plans. He celebrated the huge expansion in trade, but said, "We have to admit, though, in our economic and trade relationship problems do exist."
In a meeting with Mr. Bush's economic team, he suggested that the solution was more American exports to China rather than any restriction on Chinese exports to America.
China's critics in Congress believe that Mr. Wen has calculated that Mr. Bush is unwilling to make an issue of trade when he needs Beijing's support on Korea. 
"The Chinese believe they can get away with it," Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat, said in an interview. "This administration will trade away economic help for diplomatic gain."
Mr. Schumer is a sponsor of an effort to place high tariffs on Chinese goods until China allows its currency, the yuan, to appreciate against the dollar, which would make Chinese goods more expensive here. 
In an effort to allay criticism of Mr. Bush's support for Beijing, administration officials came to the White House press room to declare that the United States was not "abandoning support for Taiwan's democracy or for the spread of freedom."
But three conservatives, William Kristol, Robert Kagan and Gary Schmitt, issued a statement asking "can it really be President Bush's position that Taiwan is not permitted to hold any democratic referenda at all?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of Prime Minister Wen Jiabao demonstrated their enthusiasm at an arrival ceremony for him yesterday at the White House. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ATOMIC WEAPONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); WEN JIABAO (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WEN JIABAO; SANGER, DAVID E; SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%) CHINA; CHINA; NORTH KOREA; TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



271 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: An Insurgent Gains Status 

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
Al Gore's endorsement confirms the status of Howard Dean as that rarest of animals in the jungle of presidential nominating politics: an insurgent front-runner. It gives him the legitimacy he has been seeking, but it also presents him with problems of self-definition.
 By now, Dr. Dean had hoped to be in position to pick up the pieces if the Establishment candidates, as he used to call them, fell back. Instead, it is they who are revamping their campaigns to be ready to pounce if he falters in Iowa or New Hampshire, the first two tests in the race for the top spot on the Democratic ticket next year. 
 The Gore-Dean partnership was introduced on Tuesday in twin appearances in Harlem and Cedar Rapids, Iowa. "I have come to the conclusion that among all of the candidates," Mr. Gore declared to a crowd in Iowa, "Howard Dean and you have managed to do a better job of igniting enthusiasm at the grass roots all across the United States of America." Page A20. 
But contradictions will trail Dr. Dean as he jets around the country with just six weeks left before the first big test. Is he an outsider still, or is he an insider? On tour last weekend, he sometimes sounded like both in the same day. Now he is the anointed candidate of the vice president in an administration whose policies, he has been suggesting for months, helped to turn many Dean supporters into nonvoters.
"I was surprised," said the Senate minority leader, Tom Daschle, another Establishment figure who thought of running for president in 2004. "There's no doubt that this is a major prize. I think that it probably does lend additional credence to the fact that Governor Dean would be considered by many to be the front-runner today."
It is almost as if the dovish Senator Eugene J. McCarthy, the insurgent hero of 1968, had been endorsed by the hawkish Harry S. Truman -- flattering, of course; politically useful, surely; ideologically confusing, probably.
As more and more voters learn about Dr. Dean, they will inevitably ask who he is, what he believes and what events have shaped his views and character. Is he a liberal, as his passionate young supporters believe, and as his relentless criticism of the war in Iraq implies, who can flank primary opponents to the left? Or is he more of a centrist, as he said in the South over the weekend, who can appeal to general-election voting blocs that have seemed highly antagonistic to each other? What to make of his record in Vermont, where he combined liberalism on abortion with conservatism on gun control? 
How well Dr. Dean wears will depend on the answers, not only in the struggle for the nomination, but even more, if he gets it, in the contest with President Bush next fall.
Such questions arise for all presidential hopefuls, but usually farther down the road. For Dr. Dean, a former governor of a small, out-of-the-way state who has less experience on the national or international stage than any other important major-party candidate in memory -- less even than Jimmy Carter or Bill Clinton -- they have come so fast, in a campaign season with a compressed primary schedule, that he has had inadequate time to answer them in a measured manner.
Meantime, his campaign shows signs of logistical strain that can only get worse as he tries to cope with the demands of reporters and politicians who want a piece of a candidate who now looks like a long-distance runner.
Once proud of being on time everywhere, Dr. Dean was late at most stops last weekend, only partly because of the snow in Iowa. His entourage went without enough work space and sometimes without food and drink. A car built to do 35 miles an hour, the 2004 Dean-mobile tends to wheeze a bit at 90.
But the logistical problems can be fixed relatively easily. What will be much harder is giving the nation a clear picture of the candidate.
Like Jimmy Carter, who began many of his speeches in Iowa in 1975 and early 1976 with the comment, "I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not from Washington," Dr. Dean said in South Carolina, as he has elsewhere, "We're not like the rest of these Washington campaigns."
It will be harder to say that now. Endorsements are an insider's game. Yet Dr. Dean, trailing in the fight for black votes in South Carolina's potentially significant Feb. 3 primary, sought and welcomed the endorsement of Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. of Illinois, who flew to the state to issue it, reminding voters there that he was born in Greenville, S.C.
Dr. Dean's campaign runs in substantial part on union manpower. In Florida, union members -- not the political neophytes Dr. Dean often speaks of -- drove the vehicles in his motorcades, filled out his crowds and waved his placards.
But he has also built a 21st-century version of the student army that helped propel the presidential candidacy of Mr. McCarthy, and now as then, one of the main elements in attracting young people has been opposition to an unpopular or at least highly controversial war. At a pancake breakfast at Drake University in Des Moines last Saturday morning, he told students that he understood that most of them were politically passive mainly because they saw no differences between candidates -- a situation he vowed to change.
When Dr. Dean himself was a Yale undergraduate in 1968, with Mr. McCarthy denouncing the Vietnam War and President Lyndon B. Johnson defending it, he remained politically inactive, even though Connecticut was a hotbed of antiwar activity, with Joseph I. Lieberman, then a recent law school graduate and now a rival presidential candidate, and the actor Paul Newman among the insurgent leaders.
Despite the obvious parallels between his campaign and Mr. McCarthy's, the two men could hardly be less alike. There is nothing of the detached, above-it-all philosopher in Dr. Dean.
In some ways, though, he resembles Robert F. Kennedy, especially when he uses one of Mr. Kennedy's campaign catch-phrases, "We can do better." (Mr. Kennedy, a Massachusetts native who represented New York in the Senate, said it with a Boston accent. Dr. Dean, born in New York, but a resident of Vermont for most of his adult life, says it with a New Yorker's inflection. At least to one longtime political reporter, he sounds like Joseph A. Califano Jr., the antitobacco crusader, who was a cabinet member under President Carter.)
On the stump, Dr. Dean speaks with great fluency and a self-confidence that can verge on smugness, seldom searching for a word, stumbling over syntax or admitting that he lacks a ready answer. Except for set-piece speeches, he ignores the podiums set up for him, works with a hand mike and employs a conversational tone, sometimes dropping his voice at the end of a sentence instead of raising it, all of which lends intimacy to his words.
At moments like that, Dr. Dean could be a professor leading a seminar, except that so many of his words are hot. He denounces "the brainless people in Washington" and repeatedly calls Mr. Bush "this guy" in a derisory tone. He told one Iowa gathering that Mr. Bush "doesn't understand anything about defense -- he's all hat and no cattle, as they say in Texas," and asked another group, "What are these people in the White House smoking?"
Pugnacious as a bantam rooster he may well be, as some of his critics charge, but he rejects the idea that he is angry. At a news conference in Florida, he insisted, "Our campaign is not about anger, it's about hope and empowerment." As if to drive home the point, he assumes a new persona when he comes to the end of his stump speech, shouting, "You have the power!" over and over again while pointing to the various sections of his audience.
Slight and compact, with close-cropped hair, almost never without a tie (although he often takes off his coat and rolls up his sleeves), Dr. Dean looks every bit the son of privilege, educated at elite primary and secondary schools and at Yale, that he is. When he uses words like "amalgam" and "contretemps," the contrast with the president, another Yale man, is inescapable.
In informal situations, making small talk with potential supporters, he sometimes seems more to the manor than to the political manner born. Not that he is either stuffy or tense, just buttoned-up. He has none of the effusive folksiness of Nelson A. Rockefeller, who grew up in similar social and economic circumstances but greeted strangers with a jaunty "Hiya, fella!"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Gore announced his endorsement of Howard Dean yesterday, praising him as the only major candidate who was right about Iraq. Joining them in Harlem was City Councilman Bill Perkins of Manhattan. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (68%); FIREARMS (61%); GUN CONTROL (61%); ABORTION (60%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES; ENDORSEMENTS; ABORTION; FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; PRIMARIES

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TOM DASCHLE (54%) APPLE, R W JR; DEAN, HOWARD (DR); GORE, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (72%) IOWA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) IOWA; NEW HAMPSHIRE

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



272 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Bush Warns Taiwan
President Bush greeted China's new premier in Washington, and told Taiwan not to try to change its relationship with the mainland. PAGE A6

Fed Holds Rates Steady
The Federal Reserve kept its key interest rate at 1 percent but laid the groundwork for a gradual tightening of monetary policy. PAGE C1

Memo May Help Jackson
Child welfare officials do not believe Michael Jackson molested a 12-year-old boy who has claimed he was abused, a memo shows. PAGE A21

Policy on Gays Is Criticized
Two retired generals and a former admiral, who disclosed they were gay, criticized official policy for homosexuals in the military. PAGE A18

Ex-Senator Simon Dies
Paul Simon, the former Democratic senator from Illinois who ran unsuccessfully for his party's presidential nomination in 1988, was 75. PAGE A29

Return of the Power Lunch
With the economic scene growing brighter, New York restaurants are competing for the business crowd at high noon. DINING, PAGE F1

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CHILD ABUSE (87%); INTEREST RATES (72%); RESTAURANTS (65%); CHILD WELFARE (55%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



273 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Lender Sees Weaker Profit As Mortgage Boom Eases 

BYLINE:  By By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Washington Mutual, a big mortgage lender, said yesterday that its earnings for the year would fall well short of forecasts, reflecting the sharp slowdown in home mortgage and refinancing activity.
 The company, which is based in Seattle, said it planned to cut costs by $1 billion over the next year and a half, beginning in the first quarter of 2004. As part of that, Washington Mutual will eliminate 2,900 jobs. 
 "Now that the mortgage market has clearly slowed, we are adjusting our business to adapt to the new realities of the current environment," Kerry K. Killinger, Washington Mutual's chairman, president and chief executive, said in a statement. 
 Washington Mutual said yesterday that it would earn $4.15 to $4.25 a share this year. Banking analysts had expected $4.42 a share.
 The slowdown in mortgage lending, particularly refinancings, which peaked in the second quarter, has been widely reported. Still, investors reacted negatively to the news. Shares of Washington Mutual fell $3.88, or almost 9 percent, to $39.97. Because of what it said were "changed conditions" and an "uncertain outlook" for the mortgage market, the company said it expected its 2004 earnings to range from $4.30 to $4.80 a share. 
 Analysts have expected the mortgage lending business to slow, in large part because refinancing activity has been red hot for so long. But another important reality is that long-term interest rates, which hit four-decade lows in June, cannot be expected to go much lower. 
 An index of mortgage applications, compiled by the Mortgage Bankers Association, reached a record in June and then fell through August. It has since been fairly flat. 
 Washington Mutual, which had a lengthy meeting with securities analysts in New York yesterday, said its mortgage volume was projected to shrink about 50 percent from third-quarter levels. 
 The company also said competitive pricing pressure had eroded expected gains from mortgage loans in the current quarter. And in response to consumer demand, the company said, it was placing greater emphasis on originating adjustable-rate mortgages.
 Adjustable-rate mortgages have shorter maturities than the fixed-rate product, so they generate less income. 
 Washington Mutual will lay off 2,000 employees involved in home lending and an additional 900 jobs in other areas. The job cuts are a continuation of the company's efforts to cut costs by reducing its payroll. From August through November, Washington Mutual said, it eliminated the equivalent of 4,500 full-time positions in its home-lending support operations. The bulk of this total reflects a reduction in temporary and contract personnel and in decreased overtime, the company said. 
 Currently, Washington Mutual has about 59,000 employees. 
 To offset the decline in its mortgage business, Washington Mutual said it would continue to expand its retail banking activities. 
 Alan Gulick, a company spokesman, said Washington Mutual was on track to open 260 new retail branches across the country this year. Another 250 are planned for 2004, he said. 
 In addition, the company has set a target of adding one million net new retail checking accounts next year. 
 The company said it expected the cost-cutting to have a beneficial effect on its bottom-line results in the second half of next year and early in 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); OVERTIME (65%) BANKS AND BANKING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; HOUSING; MORTGAGES 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (90%) SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: KERRY K KILLINGER (74%) KILLINGER, KERRY K; GILPIN, KENNETH N

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%) WASHINGTON, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



274 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: In This Case, a Two-China Policy for U.S. 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
After the opening speeches, the 50 or so American executives gathered at the Hotel Pennsylvania in Manhattan were invited to divide up. Those interested in investing in China -- putting an operation there and hiring Chinese workers -- were to go across the hall to the Penntop North conference room. Those who wanted help in exporting to China were to stay seated in Penntop South. 
 Half or more went across the hall. 
 Given the explosion of business in China, the interest in setting up shop there is not surprising. What was surprising was the presence of the United States Commerce Department at the conference. While the Bush administration complains about China unfairly tilting trade dealings to its advantage, the branch of government most responsible for promoting American business is participating in conferences and workshops that encourage American companies to put operations and jobs in China. 
 The seeming contradiction reflects the diffident American response to China's rise as an economic power. At a White House meeting yesterday, President Bush pressed China's visiting prime minister, Wen Jiabao, to let the value of the yuan, China's currency, rise, a step that would make American operations in China marginally more expensive and less appealing. Washington has also threatened to impose tariffs on a smattering of Chinese products, another marginal step unlikely to make much of a dent in America's $100 billion a year trade deficit with China. 
 Similarly, the Commerce Department often sends its representatives to events like the one at the Hotel Pennsylvania last month, but dulls their pro-export message by delivering it at conferences dominated by Chinese delegations urging American companies to invest in China, not export. 
 "We tell these groups that we are there to talk about exporting and they can put us on their program as acting in cooperation with them," said William Spitler, chief of the Commerce Department's New York office and a speaker at some of the conferences. "We make it clear that we are not sponsors," he said, "but every organization does not concisely phrase everything the way they should. They take liberties." 
 The Commerce Department was listed among the "hosts" for the two-day "Economic and Trade Conference" at the Hotel Pennsylvania. In an opening speech, a Commerce Department representative, Spencer Ross, pushed exports. But most speakers were Chinese, promoting what Shen Liguo, vice governor of Heilongjiang Province in northeastern China, described as "Northeast China's beautiful prospects." 
 "We are going to absorb a lot of foreign investment," especially from the United States, he said, adding in his talk that acquisitions and mergers involving foreign companies are being encouraged "to bring about development" of the area.
 A bright blue banner with white block letters, strung across the stage above the speakers, declared "Go Global."
 The Chinese often pay the bill, or much of the bill, for their missions to the United States. That was the case at an all-day workshop at the Waldorf-Astoria last week, convened to encourage American companies to take space and set up operations in a complex of buildings rising in downtown Beijing. The complex will house what the speakers billed as a rapidly emerging financial center, eventually rivaling not just Shanghai but Wall Street in importance.
 The Beijing Finance Street Holding Company promoted and paid for the Waldorf event, "to send you the message that a great historical opportunity and a tremendous business market are appearing in China, in Beijing," Wang Gongwei, chairman of the holding company, told the 200 or so attendees in a speech. 
 His vice chairman, Ju Jin, also spoke, as did Sui Zhenjiang, vice governor of the Xicheng District of Beijing. For this event, the Commerce Department was described by the Chinese as a sponsor, and its representative, once again Mr. Ross, acted as moderator, speaking briefly at the outset about the virtues of exporting from the United States. He remained quietly on the dais through the longer Chinese speeches. Mr. Ross is chairman of the New York District Export Council, a regional group whose members are appointed by the Commerce Department to help disseminate its message.
 Mary Brown Brewer, a Commerce Department spokeswoman, said that the agency "piggybacks" on such events because it does not have enough budgeted money to stage conferences and workshops of its own to promote exports to China of merchandise made in America. 
 While Mr. Wang's real estate development company picked up the tab for the Waldorf conference, an American real estate developer, William B. May International, paid a significant share of the expenses for the Hotel Pennsylvania gathering.
 Like the Commerce Department, George F. Donohue, the president of May, is not interested in encouraging the exodus of American business and jobs to China. Rather, he said that he hoped the Chinese would put some of the billions of dollars they have built up through their trade surplus with the United States into New York City real estate-- specifically a China Commerce building that Mr. Donohue plans to develop as a trade center, leasing office space to Chinese companies and perhaps getting them as investors. 
 That aim explained the presence of Elizabeth Rose Daly, who is director of the division of international business in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration, at the Hotel Pennsylvania event. "Hopefully they will be doing business in New York; we are focused on them coming here," said Ms. Daly, who gave a brief welcoming speech.
 China's economic gains have aroused anger among Americans who see it as another Japan, stripping away American manufacturing jobs while barring the door to American exports. But while the Japanese built up their trade surpluses in the 1980's by shipping goods made by Japanese companies, the Chinese are luring American companies to set up operations in China, often at the expense of employment at home.
 That tide has prompted some Chambers of Commerce, normally famous for putting America first, to adopt a much more pragmatic stance. The Regional Business Partnership, a 1,700-member chamber group with headquarters in Huntington, N.Y., earlier this year took a group of members to look over the site of a not-yet-built industrial park four hours by car from Beijing.
 "It is not my job to pass judgment," said Dennis Sneden, president and chief executive of the partnership. "We already have 40 members doing business in China," mostly as manufacturers.
 The Commerce Department would never go that far, but its pro-export message was certainly lost on some executives attending the recent conferences in Manhattan.
 Peter Del Rio, chief executive and co-founder of IC3D Company, a custom apparel manufacturer with 250 employees at a factory on 35th Street, said that he came to the Waldorf workshop to meet Chinese officials who might be able to speed the process if he decided to open a factory in China. 
 "If you know the right people in China," he said, "they'll get you through the bureaucracy faster than if you try to go it alone."
 Mr. Del Rio's company already works with a custom sneaker manufacturer in China, receiving daily shipments via United Parcel Service. Asked about Mr. Ross's talk about exporting to China, Mr. Del Rio said it was irrelevant. 
 "They are the new global power," he said of the Chinese, "the largest manufacturing country in the world, and I have to be here to figure out how to operate with them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A workshop last week at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York encouraged American companies to set up operations in Beijing. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Wang Gongwei of Beijing Finance Street said that "a great historical opportunity and a tremendous business market are appearing in China." (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); TRENDS (73%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; CURRENCY; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; BEIJING FINANCE STREET HOLDINGS CO 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); WEN JIABAO (72%); RICK PERRY (69%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); UCHITELLE, LOUIS; WEN JIABAO (PRIME MIN); WANG GONGWEI

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NORTHEAST CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



275 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Democrat Wins San Francisco Mayor's Race 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
In a contest that the Democratic Party considered a must win, a Democratic businessman, Gavin Newsom, was elected mayor of San Francisco on Tuesday, fending off a strong challenge from a member of the Green Party.
 Mr. 
Newsom, 36, a member of the city's board of supervisors who owns a wine shop, restaurants and several other businesses, was favored by the city's business interests and the long-dominant Democratic Party elite. 
 With 100 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Newsom had nearly 118,000 votes, or 53 percent, and his opponent, Matt Gonzalez, about 107,000 votes, or 47 percent, according to unofficial returns by city officials.
In the final days of the campaign, a nervous Democratic leadership called upon some of its biggest names to campaign with Mr. Newsom, including Bill Clinton and Al Gore, even though the Democrats enjoy a 16-to-1 advantage in registration over the Green Party. 
The scrappy-looking Mr. Gonzalez, 38, a former public defender and longtime Democrat who switched to the Green Party three years ago, tapped into a strong undercurrent of disaffection in the city with the politics-as-usual image of the Democratic Party. That perception grew particularly strong in the final years of the two terms of Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr., who was seen as too friendly to big business as the city struggled to cope with the collapse of the dot-com economy.
As president of the board of supervisors, Mr. Gonzalez was one of Mr. Brown's most consistent critics.
Mr. Brown, who appointed Mr. Newsom to the board of supervisors in 1997 and favored him as his successor, was absent during much of the campaign. Mr. Newsom acknowledged that his association with Mr. Brown helped send some unhappy Democrats to Mr. Gonzalez. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); MAYORS (92%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); RESTAURANTS (72%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN PARTY (US) 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); AL GORE (58%) MURPHY, DEAN E; NEWSOM, GAVIN; GONZALEZ, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



276 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: RESOURCES; 
High Payments To Halliburton For Fuel in Iraq

BYLINE:  By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

 BODY:
The United States government is paying the Halliburton Company an average of $2.64 a gallon to import gasoline and other fuel to Iraq from Kuwait, more than twice what others are paying to truck in Kuwaiti fuel, government documents show.
 Halliburton, which has the exclusive United States contract to import fuel into Iraq, subcontracts the work to a Kuwaiti firm, government officials said. But Halliburton gets 26 cents a gallon for its overhead and fee, according to documents from the Army Corps of Engineers. 
 The cost of the imported fuel first came to public attention in October when two senior Democrats in Congress criticized Halliburton, the huge Houston-based oil-field services company, for "inflating gasoline prices at a great cost to American taxpayers." At the time, it was estimated that Halliburton was charging the United States government and Iraq's oil-for-food program an average of about $1.60 a gallon for fuel available for 71 cents wholesale. 
But a breakdown of fuel costs, contained in Army Corps documents recently provided to Democratic Congressional investigators and shared with The New York Times, shows that Halliburton is charging $2.64 for a gallon of fuel it imports from Kuwait and $1.24 per gallon for fuel from Turkey.
A spokeswoman for Halliburton, Wendy Hall, defended the company's pricing. "It is expensive to purchase, ship, and deliver fuel into a wartime situation, especially when you are limited by short-duration contracting," she said. She said the company's Kellogg Brown & Root unit, which administers the contract, must work in a "hazardous" and "hostile environment," and that its profit on the contract is small.
The price of fuel sold in Iraq, set by the government, is 5 cents to 15 cents a gallon. The price is a political issue, and has not been raised to avoid another hardship for Iraqis. 
The Iraqi state oil company and the Pentagon's Defense Energy Support Center import fuel from Kuwait for less than half of Halliburton's price, the records show.
Ms. Hall said Halliburton's subcontractor had had more than 20 trucks damaged or stolen, nine drivers injured and one driver killed when making fuel runs into Iraq.
She said the contract was also expensive because it was hard to find a company with the trucks necessary to move the fuel, and because Halliburton is only able to negotiate a 30-day contract for fuel. "It is not as simple as dropping by a service station for a fill-up," she said.
A spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers, Bob Faletti, also defended the price of imported fuel.
"Everyone is talking about high costs, but no one is talking about the dangers, or the number of fuel trucks that have been blown up," Mr. Faletti said. "That's the reason it is so expensive." He said recent government audits had found no improprieties in the Halliburton contract.
Gasoline imports are one of the largest costs of Iraqi reconstruction efforts so far. Although Iraq sits on the third-largest oil reserves in the world, production has been hampered by pipeline sabotage, power failures and an antiquated infrastructure that was hurt by 11 years of United Nations sanctions.
Nearly $500 million has already been spent to bring gas, benzene and other fuels into Iraq, according to the corps. And as part of the $87 billion package for Iraq and Afghanistan that President Bush signed last month, $18.6 billion will be spent on reconstruction projects, including $690 million for gasoline and other fuel imports in 2004.
From May to late October, Halliburton imported about 61 million gallons of fuel from Kuwait and about 179 million from Turkey, at a total cost of more than $383 million.
A company's profits on the transport and sale of gasoline are usually razor-thin, with companies losing contracts if they overbid by half a penny a gallon. Independent experts who reviewed Halliburton's percentage of its gas importation contract said the company's 26-cent charge per gallon of gas from Kuwait appeared to be extremely high.
"I have never seen anything like this in my life," said Phil Verleger, a California oil economist and the president of the consulting firm PK Verleger LLC. "That's a monopoly premium -- that's the only term to describe it. Every logistical firm or oil subsidiary in the United States and Europe would salivate to have that sort of contract."
In March, Halliburton was awarded a no-competition contract to repair Iraq's oil industry, and it has already received more than $1.4 billion in work. That award has been the focus of Congressional scrutiny in part because Vice President Dick Cheney is Halliburton's former chief executive officer. As part of its contract, Halliburton began importing fuel in the spring when gasoline was in short supply in large Iraqi cities.
The government's accounting shows that Halliburton paid its Kuwait subcontractor $1.17 a gallon, when it was selling for 71 cents a gallon wholesale in the Middle East.
In addition, Halliburton is paying $1.21 a gallon to transport the fuel an estimated 400 miles from Kuwait to Iraq, the documents show. It is paying 22 cents a gallon to transport gas into Iraq from Turkey.
The 26 cents a gallon it keeps includes a 2-cent fee and 24 cents for "mark-up costs," the documents show. The mark-up portion is intended to cover the overhead for administering the contract.
Ms. Hall of Halliburton said it was "misleading" for the corps to call it a mark-up. "This simply means overhead costs, which includes the general and administrative costs like light bulbs, paper and employees," she said. "These costs are specifically allowable under the contract with the Corps of Engineers, are defined by detailed regulations, and are scrutinized and approved by U.S. government auditors."
In recent weeks, the costs of importing fuel from Kuwait have risen. Figures provided recently to Congressional investigators by the corps show that Halliburton was charging as much as $3.06 per gallon for fuel from Kuwait in late November.
If the corps concludes that Halliburton has successfully administered the gas contract, it could be paid an additional 5 percent of the total value of the gas it imported. 
Halliburton's Kuwait subcontractor was hired in May. Halliburton and the Army Corps of Engineers refused to identify the company, citing security reasons. Aides to Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who has been a critic of the fuel contract, said government officials had identified it as the Altanmia Commercial Marketing Company. Several independent petroleum experts in the Middle East and the United States said they had not heard of Altanmia.
Copies of the Army Corps documents were given to Mr. Waxman's office, which provided them to The Times.
Iraqi's state oil company, SOMO, pays 96 cents a gallon to bring in gas, which includes the cost of gasoline and transportation costs, the aides to Mr. Waxman said. The gasoline transported by SOMO -- and by Halliburton's subcontractor -- are delivered to the same depots in Iraq and often use the same military escorts.
The Pentagon's Defense Energy Support Center pays $1.08 to $1.19 per gallon for the gas it imports from Kuwait, Congressional aides said. That includes the price of the gas and its transportation costs.
The money for Halliburton's gas contract has come principally from the United Nations oil-for-food program, though some of the costs have been borne by American taxpayers. In the appropriations bill signed by Mr. Bush last month, taxpayers will subsidize all gas importation costs beginning early next year.
In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Waxman responded to the latest information on to costs of the Halliburton contract. "It's inexcusable that Americans are being charged absurdly high prices to buy gasoline for Iraqis and outrageous that the White House is letting it happen," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK -- The Cost of Fuel"According to the Army Corps of Engineers, Halliburton, which has the U.S. fuel contract in Iraq, subcontracts the work to a Kuwaiti firm, but still receives 26 cents a gallon. Importing fuel from Kuwait to Iraq $2.64Average paid per gallon by the Army Corps of Engineers to Halliburton A breakdown of costs per gallon FUEL$1.17 TRANSPORT$1.21 HALLIBURTON FEES$0.26 (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); ARMIES (90%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); IMPORT PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GAS STATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TERRORISM#000T031211SRAQA01# 

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (93%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); KBR INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (93%) HALLIBURTON CO; ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS; KELLOGG BROWN & ROOT 

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (93%); ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); KBR (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (93%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (93%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); NAICS238110 POURED CONCRETE FOUNDATION & STRUCTURE CONTRACTORS (54%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (54%); NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (54%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (54%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (54%) SIC1389 OTHER OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES; 

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (54%) VAN NATTA, DON JR; WAXMAN, HENRY A (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (94%); TURKEY (79%) IRAQ; KUWAIT

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



277 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Ethanol Is a Winner 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Swearing Fealty to Ethanol" (editorial, Dec. 3): 
The use and expansion of ethanol, America's major home-grown renewable liquid fuel, address both oil dependency and global warming. 
And as you admit, ethanol is "cleaner than some other additives currently used in gasoline."
So why criticize those who see the efficacy of increased ethanol production for its economic, energy and environmental benefits?
You should recognize the importance to farmers and rural communities of expanding the production of ethanol. 
The greatest growth in ethanol production is coming from new, farmer-owned co-ops. 
Given the benefits to rural economies, reducing oil import dependency and pollution, it is not surprising that presidential candidates promote ethanol development. What is surprising is your antipathy.

BOB DINNEEN
President, Renewable Fuels Assn.
Washington, Dec. 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (93%); ALCOHOLS (92%); BIOFUELS (91%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (88%); FUEL ADDITIVES (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (86%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (51%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethanol 

ORGANIZATION: Renewable Fuels Assn

PERSON: Bob Dinneen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



278 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2099 words

HEADLINE: The Powering Up of the Power Lunch 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
LAST week, the Composite Index of Leading Economic Indicators rose, the Dow was close to 10,000 for the first time in 18 months, and Julian Niccolini, an owner of the Four Seasons restaurant, added three tables in front of the maitre d'hotel's stand in the Grill Room.
 The last statistic may be the least scientific, but it is one of the more obvious signs that a city that had been counting its pennies is once again makingreservations for lunch. And the powering up of the ultimate power lunch spot in Manhattan is not an isolated circumstance. Michael's, the Midtown maypole for media types, is humming, and the Lever House Restaurant, a new entrant in the high-end lunch sweepstakes, is so busy it is turning business aside. Farther down in Midtown, DB Bistro Moderne can barely contain the noisy bustle of its midday visitors, and downtown spots like Eleven Madison Park and Da Silvano are seeing a steady stream of moneyed lunchers as well. 
 "We are up 20 percent from last year and having our best year in the past three," said Steve Millington, general manager at Michael's. "And the holiday season is not even in full swing. It has been a parade of celebrities, regulars and new people, pretty much nonstop." 
The power lunch, a ritual that took on an odor of profligacy in the months following Sept. 11, 2001, has again become standard practice within a certain rank of business people. 
And there is some evidence to show that a long lunch between the right people is anything but a waste of time. Over at the Four Seasons, events of some significance are on the menu along with the white truffle risotto ($130 for an appetizer portion) and grilled dorade. On Nov. 20, Edgar Bronfman Jr. and Roger Ames spent a good long while chatting amiably with heads bent toward each other while other captains of industry, including Ronald O. Perelman, Steven Rattner and Ronald S. Lauder, casually took in the significance of the pairing. A few days later, Warner Music, of which Mr. Ames is chairman, was sold to a group headed by Mr. Bronfman for $2.6 billion, which sort of puts the price of risotto in perspective.
While the martinis of lunchtimes past may never come back, along with the generous tax deductions for business lunches, there have been scattered outbreaks of wine and Champagne by the glass. Happy days, it would seem, are here again -- at least for people who can afford to spend $30 on a hamburger and 90 minutes eating it.
"It is all about making deals," said Mr. Niccolini, who in addition to being a co-owner of the Four Seasons is the keeper of the restaurant's lunchtime seating chart. "If our business is any sort of economic indicator, things are going well."
The right lunch at the right place at the right time is a statement, a way to get the jungle drums chanting. Susan Magrino, who watched the Bronfman-Ames lunch, is a publicist who counsels Martha Stewart, among other clients. Nibbling on some bay scallops while she watched Mr. Bronfman and Mr. Ames, she said that lunch can be a powerful form of communication.
"If I have a client who is in need of exposure, I make sure that they are out there and people can see them," she said.
Visibility takes on a measure of urgency when someone is about to disappear -- to prison, say, for financial skulduggery.
"Sam Waksal must have been in here 10 times before he went away," said Mr. Millington, about the founder and former chief executive of ImClone Systems, who was sentenced in June to more than seven years in prison for securities fraud, perjury and other crimes he committed while orchestrating ImClone stock trades for himself and family members at the end of 2001.
"The message is clear," Mr. Millington said. "He seemed to be saying, 'I'm going to be gone for a while, but I will be back.' "
When the point of a meal is visibility and the food is just a side dish, satisfying a guest's real appetite can be tricky. 
"The last three days have been completely full," said Loreal Sherman, the lunch maitre d'hotel, who has worked at Michael's for the last 11 years. Seating people correctly "becomes a chess game and can be fun," she said, "but just when you think you have the lunch figured out, someone rock-your-world famous will call looking for a table. Then the real fun starts."
But celebrity is only part of the math of who sits where.
"For me, it is much more about loyalty than it is about celebrity," said Danny Meyer, whose Union Square Hospitality Group owns Gramercy Tavern, Union Square Cafe, Eleven Madison Park, Tabla and Blue Smoke. That loyalty, Mr. Meyer intimated, goes both ways. "I was at all five of our restaurants today," he said last week. "The first thing I do every day is to look at the reservations for each of our restaurants and then make a plan, knowing where I will start at noon and where I can go at 1:30."
Gil Schwartz, a CBS executive who writes about the folkways of power under the nom de plume of Stanley Bing in both books and a column for Fortune magazine, said that many people fail to understand that consistency has its own rewards.
"You can attain status at any of these places by being a loyal patron," said Mr. Schwartz, who is a regular at Michael's. "You can get a good table by virtue of your standing or just by showing up all the time. People will look and see the owner fawning all over someone and say, 'Who is that schmendrick?' and what it comes down to is that this is a patron who is loyal in good times and in bad."
A visit from the owner takes the sting out of plunking down big money for a noontime meal. But those high prices (a burger at DB Bistro, albeit one stuffed with foie gras and short ribs, costs $29) have real purpose, too. They can act as a kind of velvet rope to keep out tourists and people paying their own way, allowing a big hitter to tuck in a napkin secure in the belief that no one who works for him can afford to walk in the door.
The recent burst of power lunching is not restricted to a few hot spots. Le Bernardin, Trattoria Dell'Arte and Orso have been playing to busy crowds, as has Tribeca Grill, while the "21" Club, which all but invented the modern rite of dining seasoned with power, is still storming along, replete with totems of industrial might -- toy trucks and airplanes, and the like -- hanging from the ceiling.
" '21' is a relaxing throwback," said Jann Wenner, chief executive of Wenner Media, which publishes Rolling Stone and Us Weekly. "It's not a trendy place, not a media crowd, but it is so comfortable and dripping in tradition."
And the Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle will undoubtedly make its presence felt when it opens, with two floors of stratospherically expensive dining, but for some, the best table in the city is the one they work at all the time.
"My favorite words in the English language are, 'Your lunch just canceled,' " said Linda Wells, editor in chief of Allure magazine. "I suppose I should be ashamed, but I like to eat at my desk."
WHILE many think of the power lunch as a practice that arrived with the bull market of the 1980's, it is as old as the city's relationship with commerce. Delmonico's, the original elite address for the noon meal, was open in the 1830's.
"Because of the narrow shape of Manhattan, the city grew north and people ended up working farther and farther from home," explained Arthur Schwartz, a radio host and former food editor at The Daily News who is writing a history of eating in New York. "New York has a reputation as a place where people gobble their food, but the business lunch, because of the city's history as a commercial headquarters, really began here."
For all its civilized trappings, the New York business lunch is a bit of a blood sport. Joe Armstrong, an adviser to communications companies like ABC and a guy with a black belt in power lunch, recalls that in the mid-80's when the Russian Tea Room was the place to be seen, one agent hired a lip reader to track the conversations of a competing agent at another table.
Mr. Armstrong, who once worked as a busboy at the Dixie Pig in Abilene, Tex., where the all-you-can-eat lunch buffet clocked in at $3.98, has never gotten over his shock at the costs for lunch in some of the city's more exclusive restaurants.
Nonetheless, he took the check at a lunch last year at Michael's that has since passed into legend. In celebration of Robin Williams's Carnegie Hall debut, Mr. Armstrong coordinated a meal whose guests included Diane Sawyer, Liz Smith and a man named Bill Clinton. The occasion turned into the ultimate lunchtime entertainment when word passed through the dining room that George Stephanopoulos, the Clinton aide turned television reporter who had openly criticized his former boss, would soon be arriving. People perched like crows on a wire to watch the encounter. The pleasantly benign results were gossip fodder for days.
Lunch seems to be on the leading edge of economic trends, said E. Charles Hunt, executive vice president of the Greater New York City Chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association, which has 2,500 members in the city. Expensive spots empty out at the first sign of trouble, but fill up before more durable goods experience a recovery.
"We are getting the sense that in the areas where the business community lunches, things are getting better," Mr. Hunt said. "I think an increase in lunch business symbolizes an upturn in the entire business climate. It's a good sign for 2004." For a restaurant, having a lock on the power lunch crowd is akin to having an automatic teller machine that spits out large bills unbidden. Gangs of people plop down at 1 p.m. and when they get up at 2:30, they leave a pile of money, or an extravagantly signed credit card slip behind. (At the Four Seasons, nothing so tawdry as money is usually seen, let alone discussed. Regulars never see a bill until the end of the month.)
But loyalties can be placed under strain, particularly in a city where buzz -- that ineffable heat of publicity and chatter -- plays such a strong role in determining where a reservation should be made. The recent opening of the Lever House Restaurant in Midtown, for instance, has created just the smallest amount of indigestion at restaurants that compete for its lunch trade. As maitre d'hotel, the Lever House hired Michael Bailey away from Michael's, giving first-time visitors a familiar hand to shake. And the publishing crowd, including David Granger, editor of Esquire; Norman Pearlstine, editor in chief of Time Inc.; and Bonnie Fuller of Star Magazine have shown up, along with people from the music and television business, according to John McDonald, an owner of the restaurant. Anderson Cooper, an anchor for CNN, recently ate lunch in one of the favored booths along the left side of the room.
"In a way, we can participate in writing our own fate," Mr. McDonald said. "I don't want us to be found by the Old World approach. We want there to be a bit of a fun factor here, nothing too staid or traditional."
That lighter touch has allowed the Lever House to make inroads with women, a tough, much sought-after lunch crowd.
"Julian would kill me if he knew I was here," one woman publishingexecutive said, referring to Mr. Niccolini of the Four Seasons. (She declined to be identified for exactly that reason.) "He is always worried that he doesn't have enough women in the room."
The competition both at and for lunch is a mannered one. Mr. Niccolini barely acknowledges that the Lever House has opened, and no lunching competitors would ever deign to clash in public. Friendly waves are the proper form, albeit accompanied by a smiling whisper to one's companion that said competitor is tanking.
"Sometimes, conflict is good," Mr. Niccolini admitted. "Without a little conflict, there is no drama."
Mr. Millington of Michael's agreed, suggesting that when so many jumbo jets land in one place, there is bound to be the occasional wing touch.
"It's the high school cafeteria, and everybody likes to flex their muscles," he said. "Nothing wrong with that."
Mr. Schwartz of CBS is one of those jets, with a regular seat at Michael's next to his friend David Hirshey, an editor at HarperCollins.
"This is really the last prerogative," Mr. Schwartz said. "There is a lot of pressure and anxiety right now. Even though your title may be huge, you are doing work all day that leaves you feeling beleaguered. The lunch is the little way station in the middle of the day when you attain, for the moment, what it feels like to be an executive, to have people looking through the window of the restaurant at you and wondering how you got there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: WHAT'S ON THE PLATE? -- Above, lunch patrons at Michael's in Midtown include the writer Dominick Dunne, wearing glasses at the center table. Inset, peak time on the restaurant's reservation list. Left, the new scene at Lever House Restaurant has attracted women. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); THE CHECK? HOW QUAINT -- At the Four Seasons restaurant on East 52nd Street, regular customers are sent a bill once a month. (pg. F8); VISIBILITY COUNTS -- The lunch scene at Lever House Restaurant, above. Below, the favorite tables of regulars at the Four Seasons restaurant, as sketched by Julian Niccolini, an owner, who presides over the seating chart. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SWEEPSTAKES (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (50%) Restaurants; Executives and Management

ORGANIZATION: Four Seasons (NYC Restaurant); Lever House Restaurant (NYC); Michael's (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: EDGAR BRONFMAN JR (65%); STEVEN RATTNER (54%); RONALD PERELMAN (50%) David Carr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



279 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Decides Time Isn't Right For Gas Levy 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: ISELIN, N.J., Dec. 9 

 BODY:
A proposal to increase New Jersey's gasoline tax was derailed on Tuesday when Gov. James E. McGreevey said he would not support the measure -- at least for the time being -- because he feared it would smother the state's economic recovery. 
 The proposal, to increase the 14.5-cent gas tax by 12.5 to 15 cents per gallon, was presented late last month by a bipartisan commission appointed by the governor. 
 The commission said that without the increase, the state's Transportation Trust Fund would soon run out of money to pay for construction and repair of roads and bridges. The increase had the backing of construction unions and some business groups, but many drivers opposed it. 
Democratic lawmakers were unable to win support from Republicans, even after they proposed using some of the tax increase to eliminate the highly unpopular tolls on the Garden State Parkway.
In addressing a group of business leaders on Tuesday, Mr. McGreevey said he had studied the plan and decided that the potential economic effect was too great to risk. Instead, the governor said, he will order the Department of Transportation to consider delaying some construction projects and find other budget cuts.
"At this time, I cannot in good conscience say that we have exhausted every way to save money and reduce unnecessary spending," Mr. McGreevey said during the speech to the New Jersey Business and Industry Association.
In the short term, the move will allow Mr. McGreevey to take credit for blocking an unpopular plan to increase taxes. Republicans also declared victory, saying their unified opposition, especially in the evenly divided State Senate, had kept Democrats from enacting the plan on a party-line vote.
Because the transportation fund is expected to run out of money in 18 months, lawmakers and the governor are likely to return to the issue next year, when Democrats will control both houses of the Legislature.
Since approving a tax increase can be politically dangerous, some Democrats had hoped to adopt the plan during the legislative session that ends in January, when some departing lawmakers might find it easier to vote yes. Approving it then would also mean that incoming legislators would not have to confront the issue. 
Richard Codey, a Democrat who becomes Senate president in January, said he was concerned that the governor's decision to abandon the gas tax proposal would slow the state's road repair program so drastically that it could cost jobs and might endanger drivers.
"I share the governor's concern for the impact a higher gas tax would have on working families, but we also need to address their driving safety and the time it takes for them to get to work," said Mr. Codey, of Essex County. "It would be a tragedy for our families and for our economy if we fail to renew the Transportation Trust Fund, so we can't ignore our need to address this issue."
The Transportation Trust Fund was established in 1984 to dedicate gasoline taxes for road and bridge repairs and to prevent lawmakers from using the money for other projects. Since 1990, however, the fund has relied so heavily on borrowing that this year it devoted nearly two-thirds of its $745 million operating budget to debt service. By 2006, its entire $805 million budget would be needed to pay off loans.
Senator Leonard Lance of Hunterdon County, who rallied the Republican opposition to the tax increase, said he was willing to return to the issue next year as part of a broader program to regulate how the transportation fund spends its money.
"We should encourage a pay-as-you-go system from the Transportation Trust Fund to the greatest extent possible," said Mr. Lance, who will become Senate minority leader in the new session.
While some drivers' groups and business leaders were relieved by Mr. McGreevey's decision to set the proposal aside for now, many seemed resigned to the fact that a gas tax increase was all but inevitable during the next two years.
"Something, obviously, has to be done in the near future," said Jim Benton of the New Jersey Petroleum Council.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey talking to business leaders yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); TRENDS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (74%); POLITICS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (70%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Roads and Traffic; Economic Conditions and Trends; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: David Kocieniewski; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



280 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 52 words

HEADLINE: Hunters, Gatherers and Modern-Day Shoppers 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Consumers in America consume because they feel that they must, and this is just as well, because the economy depends on it. 
The urge to spend suggests low self-acceptance, depression and anxiety (Week in Review, Dec. 7). 
 Don't we have a problem here?

JOHN GOLDINGAY
Pasadena, Calif., Dec. 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (88%); RETAILERS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (81%) Retail Stores and Trade; Consumer Behavior

PERSON: John Goldingay

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



281 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
At Baseball's Extremes, It's a No-Win Situation

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
GEORGE STEINBRENNER'S Yankees payroll is soaring toward $200 million and he is, according to reports, raising his ticket prices. Do the math. Is his obsession with winning, as he contends, for the benefit of the cabbies and doormen he professes to represent?
 At least New York's patron saints have an option: stay home and watch a winning product on their favorite Steinbrenner-owned cable network. In Milwaukee, the other end of baseball's ever-expanding fiscal universe, the angry collective formerly known as Brewers fans would pay good money if the hometown team and its homegrown owner turned baseball commissioner, Bud Selig, took a one-way cab to Kalamazoo. 
 Steinbrenner is engaged in a ferocious arms race with the Boston Red Sox, fishing deep into his revenue streams for anyone who has ever pitched a scoreless inning out of the bullpen and other, more expensive prize winter catches. If not Gary Sheffield, then Vladimir Guerrero. If not Guerrero, go ahead, create your own wish list and mail it to: Big Spender of Our Money, Tampa, Fla.
Then again:
"I don't think there's any blame to be given Steinbrenner or John Henry with the Red Sox in continuing to try to build a winning team," Andrew Zimbalist, the author and sports economist from Smith College, said. "It's what you want an owner to do."
Contrast what Steinbrenner has been up to since the Yankees failed to win the World Series for the third straight year with the latest asset-purging of the Brewers and the Montreal Expos, two franchises most closely associated with the commissioner's office, and you answer the question: who is the greater menace to baseball's competition credibility, Steinbrenner or Selig?
In Milwaukee, fans are livid over the dealing of Richie Sexson (45 home runs last season) to Arizona and the team's recent announcement that it will cut payroll by 25 percent next season, to $30 million. Wisconsin politicians who supported a five-county sales tax to build Miller Park are accusing the longtime lowly Brewers -- 191-295 in their three-year-old home -- of reneging on a promise to field a competitive team in return for the park. In addition to a review of team finances by a panel of business executives the Brewers have agreed to, the politicians want an independent state audit.
For the record, Selig doesn't operate the Brewers. His 30 percent share is held in a trust, but his daughter, Wendy Selig-Prieb, remains the chairwoman of the board. And as the controversy has turned nastier than a Brewers West Coast trip, The Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel reported recently that Rick Schlesinger, the Brewers' executive vice president for business operations, had admitted to meetings with Selig, himself and other Brewers officials.
Even assuming no Brewers business was discussed and no violation of the trust occurred, there is still an inherent conflict that makes baseball look amateurish, or worse. As commissioner, Selig presided over the collective bargaining agreement reached in 2002 that helped the Brewers collect about $15 million from revenue sharing in 2003. How does the Brewers' plan to cut $10 million from a bare-bones payroll jibe with the rationale for siphoning money from big markets to small? More important, how does Selig as baseball's ultimate authority maintain that he is enforcing a deal intended to narrow the competition imbalance?
It would help if baseball had a minimum-payroll requirement forcing small-market teams to invest the big-market largess in the on-field product. "Baseball does have an issue with Yankee or big-market dominance, but the collective bargaining agreement is supposed to be the structure that modulates that behavior," Zimbalist said. "It doesn't, but to expect Steinbrenner or a John Henry with the Red Sox to not use their resources is ridiculous."
If the Red Sox land shortstop Alex Rodriguez and closer Keith Foulke, Steinbrenner's payroll may hit a quarter-billion next season. But here is the expensive lesson he should have started learning in the ninth inning of Game 7, 2001, in Arizona: He can't buy the World Series. If he keeps spending on the basis of statistics, he'll eventually risk collapsing from the weight of his own ambition.
In October, the Yankees were beaten by Florida, a team with roughly one-third their payroll. The year before, Anaheim wiped them out in the playoffs and won the World Series with a player expenditure that was middle-of-the-road. Minnesota and Oakland continue to hold their own. All of these teams have proved that smartly controlled budgets allow for the possibility of a pennant race, or more, as opposed to what the Brewers are doing, which is asking fans to pay money to watch them save money, in a ballpark those fans helped build. This is the real black eye for baseball, even as Steinbrenner takes more verbal pie in the face for, among other things, relieving the Expos of Javier Vasquez's salary. 
Now Guerrero, the Expos' other prime asset, has been surrendered, becoming the market's premier free agent. Baseball fiddles as the once-proud and still-productive Montreal franchise burns. Several months ago, it was suggested in this space that the Expos be sold to the highest bidder with the promise of inhabiting Miller Park in Milwaukee. With the proceeds from the sale, baseball could then buy out Selig and Company and fold the Brewers. Milwaukee would have a team it could again trust, the Expos would have a home, and Selig would no longer be dogged by conflict of interest.
"A cute plan," Zimbalist called it. Any Brewers fan with a better one can mail it to: Nonspender of Our Money for Players, Milwaukee, Wis.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Expos have lost their prime assets, letting Vladimir Guerrero, above, become a free agent and trading Javier Vazquez to the Yankees. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); AUDITS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (71%); SALES TAX (68%) Baseball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Finances

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (83%); BOSTON RED SOX (83%) New York Yankees; Milwaukee Brewers

PERSON: Harvey Araton

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (54%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2003 



282 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: George Marshall's World, And Ours 

BYLINE:  By Andrew J. Goodpaster; Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster, chairman emeritus of the George C. Marshall Foundation, was supreme allied commander of NATO from 1969 to 1974.

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Va. 

 BODY:
In early December 1953, Gen. George C. Marshall was en route to Oslo to receive the Nobel Peace Prize for his role in reconstructing Europe. The five-day passage aboard the Andrea Doria was a rough one, and the general had a terrible cold. Marshall had intended to use the voyage to draft his acceptance speech, but his illness prevented him from doing so. He landed in Europe with a few central ideas in his head but nothing on paper.
 When he arrived at the residence of the supreme allied commander of Europe for NATO, Marshall asked for help with his speech. I was then serving as an assistant at NATO headquarters, working on policy and strategy issues, and was soon dispatched to his bedroom. (Actually it was the room of Gen. Alfred B. Gruenther, who was then supreme allied commander.) 
 In the room was a bedridden Marshall, his slate-blue eyes and tight smile unaffected by the cold in his head. He had jotted down a few thoughts on some note cards; we met for 45 minutes and I emerged with a rough outline. I had never seen the general so tired. 
I knew his thinking, however, having worked with him previously, and by our third meeting his health had improved greatly -- and his speech was all but finished. That address, delivered 50 years ago today in Marshall's terse, no-nonsense style, outlined a vision for the nation, and the world, that remains relevant. It can serve as an instructive and helpful guide as America and the world examine the United States' efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Like Marshall himself, the speech was straightforward, even blunt, and what it lacked in eloquence it made up for in clarity. Although I was unable to travel to Oslo to see him deliver it -- by that time I had been assigned other duties at headquarters -- I was keenly aware of the goodwill it engendered.
Never one to shy from controversy, early in the speech Marshall addressed the issue of awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to a soldier, which had generated some comment in the press. "I know a great deal of the horrors and tragedies of war," he said, noting that he was chairman of the commission that supervised the construction of American military cemeteries overseas. "The cost of war in human lives is constantly spread before me, written neatly in many ledgers whose columns are gravestones."
Military strength was essential to winning World War II, Marshall knew, and in keeping order afterward. But he also knew that it alone could not bring peace. "The maintenance of peace in the present hazardous world situation does depend in very large measure on military power, together with allied cohesion," he said in Oslo. "But the maintenance of large armies for an indefinite period is not a practical or a promising basis for policy. We must stand together strongly for these present years . . . but we must, I repeat, must find another solution."
The basis for that solution had been laid a decade earlier. In 1943, with much of the war still to be fought and won, Marshall set up a civil affairs division of the Army, which was charged with planning and preparing for occupation. The idea was drawn from his experience with Gen. John Pershing in Europe and with occupation after World War I. Marshall was Pershing's aide-de-camp in that war, and he saw firsthand what happens when conquering nations abandon war-ravaged countries.
His proposed solution, of course, was the Marshall Plan, outlined in another famous speech five-and-a-half years earlier, when Marshall was secretary of state. Surveying the European landscape of privation, need and unrest, he saw that a viable foreign policy for the United States required coordinated collective action. Peace and security, economic prosperity and stable democracy were interdependent. In this situation, the recovery of Europe was of vital importance. It was for this vision of collective action toward a common goal and shared purpose that he received the Nobel Prize.
Marshall was an avid amateur historian and an admirer of General Robert E. Lee, who said, "It is history that teaches us to hope." Yet he was also suspicious of history. He preferred to rest his arguments on unchanging principles, not on shifting historical interpretations.
"There are innumerable instructive lessons out of the past, but all too frequently, their presentation is highly colored or distorted in the effort to present a favorable national point of view," Marshall said in Oslo. "I am certain that a solution of the general problem of peace must rest on broad and basic understanding on the part of free peoples."
"Tyranny inevitably must retire before the tremendous moral strength of the gospel of freedom and self-respect for the individual," he said. "But we have to recognize that these democratic principles do not flourish on empty stomachs and that people turn to false promises of dictators because they are hopeless and anything promises something better than the miserable existence that they endure."
The true heart and genius of the Marshall Plan was that it gave the people of Europe hope, restored their pride and delivered on the promise of something better. It proposed that the countries of Europe, acting in concert, should tell the United States what they deemed best to meet their needs -- not the other way around. In the discussions of the European Recovery Program, with a representative of West Germany at the table, the United States involved the European community rather than simply imposing its own ideas at the outset.
The challenge of the United States and its allies today is restoring prosperity, security and order in Iraq and Afghanistan. The factors, in both the short and long term, are many and complex: the realities of day-to-day life, the demands of cultures rooted in history, the ability (or lack thereof) of governments to provide basic services, and the varying interests of other countries. American and other leaders should learn from Marshall's experience and shift from the role of occupation to one of collaboration. Only with the active, collective participation of Iraqis themselves will their country build economic viability and democratic governance.
Despite Congressional approval of the administration's aid package for Iraq and Afghanistan, President Bush still has much work to do to convince the public of the importance of rebuilding Iraq. He should spare no opportunity to make his case, and should consider greater involvement of the United Nations in the reconstruction. But prolonged and inconclusive debate could lead to more distress and instability for the Iraqi people. "As doctors deliberate, patients are sinking," Marshall once said.
A commitment to building democratic institutions and economic prosperity is now more important than ever. The $87 billion that Congress approved, with $20 billion to be spent on rebuilding Iraq, may prove to be just a down payment for the peace and prosperity in the region that must be our enduring aim. As Marshall well understood, judicious economic aid and mutual defense commitments serve both humanitarian and national interests.
At the end of his speech, with characteristic humility, Marshall revealed his fear that his words had failed him. "Due to my inability to express myself with the power and penetration of the great Churchill, I have not made clear the points that assume such prominence and importance in my mind," he said. He needn't have feared. His ideas helped shape the world we live in and, 50 years later, can still mold the future -- if only we are willing to listen.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by John Hendrix) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); ARMIES (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); CEMETERIES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GOODPASTER, ANDREW J (GEN) (RET); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MARSHALL, GEORGE CATLETT (1880-1959) 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



283 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Building Ties With North Korea 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: VLADIVOSTOK, Russia, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
While the Bush administration wants to freeze economic ties with North Korea until the country puts its nuclear program under international controls, Russia's Far East is aggressively repairing and expanding its relationship with North Korea.
 Invited by the North Korean government, teams of Russian engineers have in recent weeks inspected the cargo port of Najin, the oil refinery at the port and a stretch of railway that crosses the two countries' short common border at the Tumen River. All three facilities, built by the Soviet Union, have been in mothballs or lightly used in recent years. 
 Russian workers are scheduled to build the first highway bridge linking North Korea and Russia. To speed rail traffic, they will also renovate the railroad south to Najin, which is 25 miles from the Russian border. New fishing and seafood-processing joint ventures are planned. And with the inauguration two weeks ago of a new hydroelectric plant, the Russian Far East now produces 30 percent more electric power than it needs; planners are talking with North and South Korea about distributing it through power lines down the Korean peninsula. 
 "We are almost destined for these contacts," said Victor V. Gorchakov, vice governor for foreign economic relations of the Primorye region of Russia. "We live here and are interested in a quiet and comfortable situation." Speaking on Monday in Vladivostok, 75 miles from the North Korean border, Mr. Gorchakov expressed opposition to Washington's policy of containment. "If driven into a corner, as they are now," he said of the North Korean government, "they will bite."
 His comments came after the United States, South Korea and Japan worked out a set of principles last weekend for an agreement to end North Korea's nuclear program. But the framework did not contain a schedule for delivering energy or economic aid to the North.
 During the Communist era, economic cooperation between the Russian Far East and North Korea was intensive. But, for most of the last decade, Russian executives here saw North Korea, a nation of 22 million people, as dead economic space.
 "As for business with North Korea, I, like many other people here, wouldn't want to invest," said Djambulat A. Tekiev, a local politician and the leading businessman in Khasan, the Russian district directly bordering North Korea. "I had one experience with trade with North Korea -- and they didn't pay."
 Instead, Mr. Tekiev has set up a cargo and passenger ferry service on a route intended to bypass North Korea: the ferries sail twice weekly between Vladivostok and Sokcho, a South Korean port just south of the demilitarized zone, with a stop at Zarubino, a Russian town near the North Korean border. 
 Now, though, Russian officials say they detect moves toward markets and pragmatism in North Korea.
 "There is a new generation of people," Mr. Gorchakov said, recalling two North Korean ministers who recently came here on separate visits. After describing their overseas experience and their drive to make business deals, he added, "There are quite a number of pragmatic people in North Korea."
 The days of aid to North Korea on the Soviet scale are gone, Russian officials say; the plans for renovating the port, the oil refinery and part of the cross-border railroad depend on the Russians getting an ownership stake in the facilities or a guaranteed stream of revenue from them. Still, with complementary road, rail, port and energy projects planned on the Russian side, the investments would re-establish Russia's influence in Korea's northeastern corner.
 The renewal of commercial ties appeals to Russian nationalists, who remember the cross-border solidarity of Communist days. Last spring, members of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia demonstrated against the war in Iraq outside North Korea's consulate in Nakhodka, a port city near Vladivostok. Some carried signs reading "An attack on Pyongyang is an attack on Russia." The Liberal Democrats did unexpectedly well in parliamentary elections on Dec. 7, drawing 11.6 percent of the national vote.
 But today, economic interests rather than ideology or geopolitics drive Primorye's projects with North Korea. For example, when the regional government recently decided to admit as many 5,000 North Korean workers on labor contracts, it was billed as a way to lower local food prices by stepping up farm production.
 Rehabilitating the Najin refinery, closed for seven years, would spare the city from having to obtain its fuel supplies by rail from a Russian refinery 600 miles north of Vladivostok. Renovating the port of Najin, which can berth 17 midsize freighters at a time, would relieve cargo congestion in Vladivostok and Nakhodka, Russia's two principal Pacific ports. Russian repair and administration of the port would be paid for through user fees.
 "Our interest in the port of Najin is understandable," said Mr. Gorchakov, whose trip to North Korea in October was his first since Soviet times. "Everything is clear for Russians in the port -- the machinery, the piers."
 Renovating the railroad crossing has two aims -- first to allow Russia to make use of the port of Najin, and later to facilitate a plan to transship South Korean products to Europe by way of North Korea and the Trans-Siberian Railway. 
 On Dec. 6, South and North Korea agreed to start building signal, communication and electricity systems for their own cross-border railway next spring, steps that could make inter-Korean train service possible late next year.
 Though North and South Korea remain at odds over a number of issues, their economic relationship has been quietly but steadily growing since 1988, and this year South Korea became North Korea's largest export market, surpassing China. 
 Two months ago, when Mr. Gorchakov was in Pyongyang, he was surprised by the number of South Koreans visiting the North Korean capital. 
 Noting that Russia shared South Korea's approach of quiet economic engagement with North Korea, he said, "They don't give much publicity to it, and maybe they are doing the right thing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A ship at the port of Zarubino. Congestion at Russian ports would be eased with the development of Najin. (Photo by Peter Blakely/Redux, for The New York Times) Map of Rusian and North Korea highlighting Vladivostok: Russia and North Korea are developing the port at Najin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); FERRIES (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (75%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); INSPECTIONS (73%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (69%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (68%) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PORTS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; REFINERIES; RAILROADS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; RUSSIA; NAJIN (NORTH KOREA); TUMEN RIVER

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



284 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
S.&P. Declines on Concerns About Rising Interest Rates

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell for a third day in four yesterday as mortgage lenders like Washington Mutual and home builders including Toll Brothers declined amid speculation that interest rates will rise, hurting their business.
 The S.&P. 500 is down 1 percent since reaching an 18-month high on Dec. 1, because investors are trying to preserve this year's gains, said Nick Ford, who helps manage $71 billion at Gartmore Global Investments in Conshohocken, Pa. The index is up 20.3 percent in 2003. 
 The S.&P. 500 shed 1.13 points yesterday, or 0.1 percent, to close at 1,059.05. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 1.56 points, to 9,921.86. The Nasdaq composite index lost 3.67 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,904.65. 
 Some 1.45 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board.
 Washington Mutual fell for a second day, shedding $1.40, to $38.57. The company on Tuesday cut its 2003 profit estimate and said it was dismissing 2,900 employees because of a drop in home borrowing. Jefferies & Company and Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Company lowered their ratings on the stock yesterday.
 Countrywide Financial dropped $3.49, to $99.71, and Golden West Financial slid $2.56, to $96.57.
 Shares of Capital One Financial and MBNA, two leading credit card issuers, also declined. Capital One lost $2.38, to $55.30, its fifth consecutive drop. MBNA shed 65 cents, to $24.15.
 Toll Brothers, the largest United States builder of luxury houses, sank $1.58, to $37.87; Lennar, the biggest home builder, dropped $4.86, to $90.75; Centex, the third-largest home builder, slid $4.71, to $102.80; and Pulte Homes, the fourth biggest, lost $5.48, to $84.90.
 The S.&P. home building index fell 5.3 percent, its biggest drop in nine months.
 Early in the day the indexes bounced between gains and losses.
 "The tone is relatively positive," said Jay Suskind, head of equity trading at Ryan Beck & Company in Livingston, N.J. Still, he said, "I don't think people want to take a lot of risk here because it's been a good year."
 The S.&P. 500 is headed for its first annual gain since 1999 and its best advance since 1998.
 Federal Reserve policy makers said Tuesday that the risk of deflation had diminished and was now equal to the risk of rising inflation. To some investors, that statement paved the way for higher interest rates next year.
 Home Depot and Lowe's, the two largest home-improvement retailers, also fell on the concern. Home Depot lost 96 cents, to $33.08. Lowe's dropped $1.42, to $54.46.
 AutoZone plunged $11.09, or 12 percent, to $80.25. The company, the largest United States auto parts retailer, reported sales of $1.28 billion in the quarter ended Nov. 22, less than the $1.3 billion average estimate by analysts.
 Cisco Systems, the maker of equipment to link computers, rose 55 cents, to $23.78. Its chief executive, John T. Chambers, said corporations planned to increase spending on computer-related products next year. Customers' budgets are rising "for the first time in a few years" as confidence improves, Mr. Chambers said at a Cisco conference in Santa Clara, Calif.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Climb
By Reuters
 Treasuries edged higher yesterday despite tepid demand for new five-year notes as traders were comforted by the level of foreign interest in the bond issue.
 The Treasury's sale of $16 billion in five-year notes drew a yield of 3.375 percent. The notes had traded at a yield of 3.32 percent just before the results were announced.
 The benchmark 10-year note gained 9/32, to 99 15/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.32 percent from 4.35 on Tuesday. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 5/32, to 103 8/32. The bond's yield declined to 5.15 percent from 5.16 percent. 
 Here are the results of the auction of five-year notes: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 100.000
High Yield: 3.375
Low Yield: 3.299
Median Yield: 3.334
Total applied for: $30,678,654
Accepted: $16,000,064
Noncompetitive: $105,144
Interest set at: 3 3/8

The five-year notes mature Dec. 15, 2008.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (85%); HOME CENTERS (83%); DEFLATION (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); INFLATION (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (65%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (83%); ARLINGTON ASSET INVESTMENT CORP (68%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (68%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); WELLS FARGO & CO (58%); PULTEGROUP INC (53%); AUTOZONE INC (50%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (83%); AI (NYSE) (68%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); WFC (NYSE) (58%); PHM (NYSE) (53%); AZO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (53%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (53%); NAICS441310 AUTOMOTIVE PARTS & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (50%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



285 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Investment Abroad Grows 

BYLINE:  By Ken Belson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Investment by Japanese companies overseas grew 19 percent in the six months that ended in September as manufacturers built more factories in China, the United States and elsewhere. 
Foreign direct investment grew to 2.5 trillion yen ($23.4 billion) and included a new Nissan Motor Company factory in Mississippi. Japanese investment in the United States grew 128 percent. New investments by foreign businesses in Japan increased 55 percent, to 981 billion yen ($9.2 billion). Ken Belson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (93%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (72%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (87%) JAPAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



286 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
A study finds benefits forlocalities that offer subsidies to attract companies.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University.

 BODY:
THE City of Indianapolis, it has been reported, is reeling after United Airlines closed a maintenance center last spring that cost the government $320 million in subsidies. Do cities that offer generous subsidies to recruit businesses routinely get taken to the cleaners? 
 A new study finds that Indianapolis is the exception, not the rule. On average, the cities that win contests to lure new businesses to their area by offering tax breaks, low-cost land, infrastructure and other handouts seem to benefit from the arrangement. 
 The study was conducted by Michael Greenstone of M.I.T. and Enrico Moretti of U.C.L.A., two rising young stars in economics. What makes their study different, and unusually compelling, is that they looked at cities that won competitions for plants and carefully compared them with cities that made it to the final step of the selection process but just lost out. 
 When a large company considers opening a plant, it typically begins with dozens of possible cities and eventually narrows the list to two or three possible sites. It is impossible to know all the factors a company considers, and they differ from industry to industry. Professors Greenstone and Moretti argue that the runner-up cities provide the closest comparison for those selected - after all, they were almost picked by the company, which knew what it was seeking. 
 Other studies, by contrast, have just compared winning cities with all other cities in the country and tried to control statistically for differences among them, or they simply calculated the cost per job created by the public subsidy. 
 When Mercedes opened a plant in Vance, Ala., for example, it was widely reported that each job created cost $165,000 of public money. The authors are particularly skeptical of this type of calculation because it ignores potential spillover benefits that arise from attracting prized plants. Moreover, rarely does anyone check back to see how many jobs were actually created. 
 To provide a better estimate, Professors Greenstone and Moretti used the corporate real estate journal Site Selection to find 82 companies that announced major openings from 1982 to 1993. The journal listed the counties that won these "million dollar plants," as well as the runner-up counties (one or two). The professors then compared the economic performance in the counties of the winning cities with that in the runner-up cities, looking both before and after the selections were announced. 
 Their results show that after the plant location decision was announced, the winning counties had faster payroll and job growth in that plant's industry than did the runner-up counties. For example, total payroll increased by $100 million more in the winning counties, on average, in the six years after the announcement was made. 
 In other industries, however, there was not a detectable difference in job or payroll growth between the winning and losing counties. 
 In the eight years before the winning county was selected, the eventual winner and runner-up counties had about equal growth in employment and payrolls, both in the winning plant's industry and more generally. These findings tend to strengthen the interpretation that the improved performance after the plant started was indeed a result of the plant, rather than some continuing trend. 
 The economists also find that public expenditures increased in the winning counties in the years after their site was selected, compared with the rival counties. This finding runs counter to the frequent contention that subsidies used to attract businesses crowd out other public programs, like education spending. 
 Lastly, the researchers find that the average property value in the winning counties increasedrelative to that in the runner-up counties after the announcement, even though there was no difference in the trend in property value between the two sets of counties beforehand.
 This finding is significant because economists believe that property values reflect the desirability of living in a particular location, encompassing the future job opportunities, physical amenities and tax liabilities. So the increase in property value implies that the benefits of winning the plant exceeded the cost of the subsidy the city incurred to attract it. 
 Still, Professors Greenstone and Moretti are cautious about whether cross-city bidding for million-dollar plants is in the nation's interest.
 First, they worry about an "arms race" in which bidding for plants does not increase national output because the plants would have located somewhere in the country anyway. Second, they note that the cities may benefit because state governments chip in money. 
 Nonetheless, their results cast doubt on the possibility that in bidding for plants city officials use public funds to further their own personal ends at the expense of constituent welfare. 
 And one of their findings suggests that there are spillover benefits to other businesses and workers from attracting an industry leader: employment and payroll tended to grow in that industry in neighboring counties when a major plant moved next door.
 Individual companies have no incentive to take into account benefits that spill over to others in choosing where to locate, but public officials do in formulating their bids. 
 It is unclear whether cities should expand the amount of bidding they do. The numbers are murky, but public subsidies to attract new companies probably account for around 3 percent of state and local government expenditures. On this scale, subsidies might be worthwhile, but the benefits might disappear on a larger scale. 
 At a minimum, though, the Greenstone-Moretti study indicates that it would not have been in the winning cities' interests to have unilaterally refrained from bidding for prized plants. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Winners Reap Spoils"According to a new study, counties that won the bidding to attract multimillion-dollar manufacturing plants had faster subsequent payroll and job growth in the industry in which the plant was being built than did the counties that were runners-up in the bidding. Percentage difference in total payroll relative to the year before the announcement of the opening of a new plant in winning and runner-up counties. Graph shows (marks for years before contract awarded) and (for years after contract awarded) for the winning counties and the runner-up counties. (Source by "Bidding for Industrial Plants: Does Winning a 'Million Dollar Plant' Increase Welfare?" by Michael Greenstone, M.I.T., and Enrico Moretti, U.C.L.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%) MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B; GREENSTONE, MICHAEL; MORETTI, ENRICO 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



287 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: No Corks Popping Yet, but Signs Point to End of Recession in City 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
More tourists and business travelers are flying into the city. Some Wall Street firms are starting to hire again, at least modestly. City tax revenues are rising. Hotels are filling up. New restaurants are opening. Unemployment is dropping.
 This string of indicators has led state, city and federal government economists to a nearly unanimous conclusion: After two and half years of contraction, the New York City economy appears to have bottomed out, and a hesitant but discernible recovery may be under way. 
 Few of the gains are large enough, or have been sustained long enough, for most economists to declare flatly that the city's recession is now history. But most of the indicators are pointing that way, and that, they said, is worth heralding. 
"We need to see a little more data and a sustained trend," said Rae D. Rosen, senior economist and assistant vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. "But the sectors we were waiting to see turn have turned."
The numbers, to be sure, are modest. After losing 235,000 private sector jobs between January 2001 and this summer, the city gained 11,100 jobs in October and September, a bump that could be partly seasonal. The gross city product, which declined for 10 consecutive quarters, closed out the third quarter in September with a tiny 0.3 percent annualized gain, the city comptroller's office has reported. 
If these trends continue, it will mean that this economic downturn was less severe, at least in terms of job losses, than the past three recessions in New York City -- those of the early 1990's, the mid-1970's and the late 1960's -- and shorter lived than the most recent two, according to the Federal Reserve. 
Fewer private jobs were lost -- 7.2 percent of the total, compared with as much as 11.3 percent in the 1970's. Further, office vacancy rates were not as high as those in the past. Meanwhile, population estimates show, the city continued to grow between 2000 and 2002, even while the economy was in decline.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said these statistics demonstrated that major employers and people had not left the city in large numbers after the Sept. 11 attack, despite predictions that they would. 
"Everybody said, 'People are going to leave this city. They don't want to be here; it is dangerous,' " Mr. Bloomberg said in an interview this week. "That never materialized. We kept people. We assuaged people's fears. And I think they also looked and said, 'Nothing is perfect.' "
Still, the downturn lingered much longer in New York than it did in the rest of the nation --and the city's job losses were more severe -- something that economists attribute to the impact of the Sept. 11 attack. Further, the rest of the country has not only emerged from the slump that started in March 2001, it has surged ahead.
"If not for Sept. 11, it would have been a 'V,' instead of a 'U,"' said Andrew M. Joseph, New York City's deputy comptroller, referring to the shape of the charts detailing the city's economic health. 
Only the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., has outright declared the recession over. But there are hints of a turnaround throughout the city, from restaurants that are hiring more workers, to hotels that have had to turn customers away, to Wall Street firms that are talking about bonuses that could be, on average, double what they were last year.
"There is no question the restaurant market reacts to good news, and the news recently has been good," said Nick Valenti, president of Restaurant Associates, which owns a dozen restaurants in the city, including Sea Grill at Rockefeller Center and Brasserie on East 53rd Street, where sales are up between 5 percent and 7 percent this year. "Business is definitely improving."
More meals are being served in part because the city is seeing more tourists. In fact, tourism was the first major piece of the city's economy to start a comeback. 
Nearly 265,000 people worked in the leisure and hospitality industry in New York City in the fall of 2000, according to city data. By October 2001, right after the attack, employment in this sector had dipped to 250,000. As of this summer, the number of people working in the industry --given a slew of new restaurants and hotels -- had increased to more than 260,000. And more new restaurants are on the way.
"You are talking about not a vintage year, but the most important group of new restaurants in perhaps 25 years," said Tim Zagat, publisher of Zagat restaurant guides. "It is a vote of confidence in the market. And it is going to create an enormous amount of buzz."
The city expects to have 35.9 million visitors this year, up 2 percent from last year. Traffic through the three metropolitan area airports increased by a similarly small but notable amount since last year.
Hotel occupancy, which dipped to 71 percent in October 2001, reached 86 percent this past October, close to the number seen in October 2000, when the city economy was booming. Hotel rates, however, remain lower than they were before the recession, with an average city room going for $217 in October, compared with $268 during the same month in 2000, according to NYC & Company, the city's visitors bureau.
The increase in tourists has resulted in huge crowds at places like the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which had 444,013 visitors last month, compared with 288,678 in November 2001. 
This is before the holiday season, which is turning out to be strong for tourism, and the Republican National Convention next summer. Still missing on the tourism front, however, are large numbers of international travelers, who tend to stay longer and spend more. 
But one of the surest signs of a turnaround is seen on Wall Street, which shed some 35,000 jobs during the recession. The finance sector as a whole has now seen two months of hiring gains -- 1,800 jobs in October and 1,400 jobs in September.
Merrill Lynch, which has cut its global work force from 72,000 to 48,000 since the recession began, announced last month that it expected to hire 650 financial advisers in 2004, at least some of whom are likely to be based in New York City. The firm also plans to spend $1 billion in the next five years to modernize its desktop computers and online systems in New York City and in other offices around the world.
A combination of reduced costs and an upsurge in trading will mean that most of the big investment banks will end the year with enormous profits. For example, J. P. Morgan Chase & Company, one of the city's biggest employers, reported $4.86 billion in net income from the first nine months of this year, 137 percent higher than in 2002. 
Even if the banks are not yet hiring again -- and some of the largest say they are not -- the city is reaping benefits. The high profits are translating into higher tax revenues for the city, significantly easing the fiscal crunch the Bloomberg administration faced a year ago. 
Last month, the mayor reported that the city expected to collect $575 million more in taxes this fiscal year, which began on July 1, than it had expected, much of which he will put toward balancing next year's budget. Personal income tax collections are up, as are business taxes and real estate taxes.
"The economy is improving faster than was anticipated by the city," said Ken Bleiwas, deputy state comptroller for New York City. 
The recovery is not universal. Nor is it being felt universally. Still lagging is the media business. 
"I'm not sure I believe the economists," said Richard McMullan, 38, a freelance television gaffer whose wife is an art director for a magazine. "Magazines have stopped firing people, but they haven't started hiring them back. And as far as the television industry, I haven't seen a surge in new projects."
But even in the media business, analysts are now predicting an improvement, with national advertisers expected to spend more next year, in part because of the summer Olympics and the presidential elections.
More housing -- as measured by the number of residential housing permits issued -- is being built in the City than at any time since 1985, according to the city's Planning Department. 
Also, while 319,000 more people have moved out of the city since 2000 than moved in from elsewhere in the United States, the population grew by about 65,000 residents because of immigration and births, another healthy sign.
Despite all of these positive indicators, economists remain cautious. Unemployment in New York City is at 8.2 percent, compared with 5.2 percent at the end of the last boom in January 2001. And during the city's last downturn, New York emerged from the recession for a single quarter, then slumped back into a decline.
Few economists expect that to happen again. The city comptroller's office, for example, expects the city's economy to grow about 2.5 percent in 2004 and add about 35,000 jobs. The mayor's office has made similar projections. But there remains more than a bit of finger crossing.
"It is not like a full-blown revival, not at all," said Hans Johnson, 31, who lost his dot-com job early in the recession but is now working and has fielded other offers recently. "But for me, the barometer has risen."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 18, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about indications that the New York City economy is recovering referred imprecisely to a figure showing an increase of 11,000 jobs in September and October. It included a seasonal adjustment; the increase was not partly a result of seasonal factors.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Economic Scorecard for New York City"Economists say the recession in New York City is either over or close to it. Here are some of the indicators of the city's economic health. Gross city product*CURRENT: +0.3% 3RD QUARTER 2003PREVIOUS: -0.9% 2ND QUARTER 2003INDICATION: Thumbs up Unemployment rate+CURRENT: 8.2% OCTOBER 2003PREVIOUS: 8.8% SEPTEMBER 2003INDICATION: Thumbs up Wall Street profitsCURRENT: $11.96 billion JAN.-SEPT. 2003PREVIOUS: $5.85 billion JAN.-SEPT. 2002INDICATION: Thumbs up Private sector jobsCURRENT: +4,000 OCTOBER 2003PREVIOUS: +7,100 SEPTEMBER 2003INDICATION: Thumbs up Hotel occupancy rateCURRENT: 80.2% SEPTEMBER 2003PREVIOUS: 74.8% SEPTEMBER 2002INDICATION: Thumbs up Airport passenger arrivalsCURRENT: 6,535,161 SEPTEMBER 2003PREVIOUS: 6,336,337 SEPTEMBER 2002INDICATION: Thumbs up Manhattan office vacancy rateCURRENT: 12.4% OCTOBER 2003PREVIOUS: 10.8% OCTOBER 2002INDICATION: Thumbs down Building permitsCURRENT: 8,511 SEPTEMBER 2003PREVIOUS: 7,351 SEPTEMBER 2002INDICATION: Thumbs up Help-wanted advertising index$SCURRENT: 20 SEPTEMBER 2003PREVIOUS: 22 SEPTEMBER 2002INDICATION: Thumbs down *Quarter-to-quarter change, seasonally adjusted annualized rate +Seasonally adjusted $S1987 level = 100. (Sources by New York City Office of Management and Budget; New York City comptroller; Securities Industry Association; Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (61%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



288 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Events to Be Described For Advertising Week

BYLINE:  By David Carr 

 BODY:
Ambitious efforts to create an event called Advertising Week in New York City, patterned after the annual Fashion Week, are moving ahead with a series of programs for Sept. 20-24.
 The events, to be formally described today, are being planned by an alliance of more than 20 organizations led by the American Association of Advertising Agencies. 
 "What's driving this is that we've gone through three really terrible years," O. Burtch Drake, president and chief executive of the association, said yesterday, referring to the industry recession. "What we want to do is emulate what some other major industries in New York like fashion and film have done and create a platform to showcase our industry as an economic force and as an attractive place to work."
 Among the events intended to help raise the public profile of advertising are the presenting of a new award, intended to be bestowed annually, by the National Television Academy of Arts and Sciences, to recognize outstanding achievement in advertising; the development of a Madison Avenue "advertising walk of fame," honoring characters and slogans to be selected by the public; the mounting of weeklong exhibits at Vanderbilt Hall in Grand Central Terminal devoted to subjects like the history of public-service advertising, ads for Broadway shows and the "I Love NY" campaign; and a national vote by consumers on the Yahoo Web site for favorite television and print ads. 
 "All that week in New York, wherever you go, you'll see ad guys, for good or for worse," Mr. Drake said, laughing.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRADE SHOWS (69%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%) AMERICAN ASSN OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES 

PERSON: CARR, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



289 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-27

U.S. Military Warns Of Assassinations in Iraq
American military commanders in Iraq are warning that they anticipate a sharp increase in assassination attempts against local political leaders and security officials who are cooperating with the United States' efforts to stabilize the country. A18

President Bush called the leaders of France, Germany and Russia to ask them to forgive Iraq's debts, a day after the Pentagon excluded those countries from $18 billion in American-financed Iraqi reconstruction projects. A1

Two American soldiers were killed and four wounded in the northern city of Mosul in two attacks, a day after a suicide bomber wounded dozens of soldiers at a base west of the city, military officials said. A19

Children Killed in Bombing
For the second time in a week, the American military has acknowledged killing children in airstrikes aimed at Taliban fighters. Six children and two adults were killed in an attack Friday night. A3

Cheaper AIDS Drugs in Africa
Two major makers of anti-AIDS drugs agreed to expand licensing of the drugs in southern Africa to generic manufacturers, potentially making more powerful AIDS treatments available at lower prices. A24

Rations Cut to North Korea
The World Food Program announced that 2.2 million people in North Korea would not have access to food rations this winter. A5

Nobel Winner Urges Equality
Shirin Ebadi, an Iranian lawyer, receiving the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize, declared that the prize would inspire women across the Muslim world to fight for equality in oppressive, patriarchal societies. A20

NATIONAL A28-41

Supreme Court Upholds Campaign Finance Law
By a 5-to-4 vote, the Supreme Court upheld all the major provisions of the campaign finance law that Congress passed last year to try to curb a flood of money into national politics. A1

Bush Advisers Focus on Dean
President Bush's political advisers are now all but certain that Howard Dean will be the Democratic presidential nominee and they are planning a campaign that takes account of what they see as Dr. Dean's strengths and weaknesses. A1

Court Revisits Juvenile Trials
A Florida appeals court panel ordered a new trial for Lionel Tate, whose life prison sentence for murdering a playmate when he was 12 became an international rallying point against treating juvenile offenders as harshly as adults. A28

Maryland Police Chief Indicted
Edward T. Norris, who became Maryland Police Superintendent after a celebrated crime-fighting record in New York City and Baltimore, resigned after he was indicted on charges of using a Baltimore Police Department charity fund to pay for personal expenses. A28

New Hampshire Blazes Trail
When New Hampshire's governor, Craig Benson, announced that his state would start buying prescription drugs from Canada, the move seemed at once bold and careful. A38

Naturalization Plan in Works
Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge has called for millions of illegal immigrants in the United States to be given some sort of legal status short of citizenship, an ambitious plan that was sidetracked after the Sept. 11 terror attacks. A30

NEW YORK/REGION B1-11

Indicators Point to End Of City's Recession
A string of positive indicators has led state, city and federal government economists to a nearly unanimous conclusion: After two and half years of contraction, the New York City economy appears to have bottomed out, with a hesitant but discernable recovery underway. A1

Brooklyn Arena Plan Unveiled
The developer Bruce Ratner unveiled his plans to build an ambitious $2.5 billion commercial and residential project featuring a Frank Gehry-designed arena for the Nets basketball team in Brooklyn. B1

Busy Week for Taxidermy
Taxidermists and wild game butchers are benefitting from New Jersey's first bear hunt in 33 years. B1

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTS D1-10

ARTS E1-14

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

CIRCUITS G1-10

OBITUARIES B12

Robert L. Bartley
The leader of the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal for three decades, who championed the supply-side economics of the Reagan era and fashioned a showcase of conservative thought, he was 66. B12

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

AT&T Joins Internet Fray
AT&T plans to offer unlimited long distance and local calling using Internet technology at a significantly lower cost. A1

Harsh Report for Freddie Mac
Federal regulators released a scathing report on the corporate culture that fostered improper accounting at Freddie Mac. C1

I.R.S. Project Is Far Behind
The $8 billion project to replace the Internal Revenue Service's aging file-keeping computer software is far behind schedule and over budget. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A42-43

Editorials: A campaign finance triumph; bidding for isolation; New York's amazing police story; Tina Rosenberg on declining government support for Mexican movies just as they become chic again.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Bridge E5
TV Listings E13
Crossword E12
Weather D11
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); NOBEL PRIZES (86%); INDICTMENTS (86%); SUPREME COURTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); TALIBAN (78%); PRISONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); FOOD SECURITY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MURDER (75%); TERRORISM (75%); GENERIC DRUGS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (72%); ANTIVIRALS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); APPEALS (69%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (66%); JUVENILE CRIME (64%); APPEALS COURTS (64%); SENTENCING (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); CITIZENSHIP (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (91%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



290 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: New York's Amazing Police Story 

 BODY:
The number of homicides in the United States fell by about 34 percent over the last decade, according to the most recent statistics from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. But the drop in New York has been nearly twice that, and now the number of homicides in the city is hovering at a 40-year low. Over all, serious crime in New York is continuing to drop despite the enormous new burden placed on the Police Department by the fight against terrorism and by skyrocketing unemployment, which many expected to translate into more robberies, burglaries and drug trafficking. 
 Some of the credit for the surprisingly good news must go to the crime-fighting advances that occurred during the administration of Rudolph Giuliani. The Compstat system, which requires borough and precinct commanders to explain crime rates and provide detailed strategies for reducing them, proved such a success that it has been copied around the nation. 
 But some other cities that use Compstat have not been able to continue pushing down crime, while New York City has, under some of the most daunting circumstances imaginable. Experts admit to being puzzled, but some of the creditmust clearly go to the city's current police commissioner, Raymond Kelly, who laid the groundwork for safer streets in an earlier stint in that post, under Mayor David Dinkins in the early 1990's. It was under Mayor Dinkins that the state and city began funneling huge new amounts of resources to a Police Department that had never really recovered from the lean years after the budget crisis of the 1970's.
Mr. Kelly argues convincingly that a great part of the secret is the determination of Michael Bloomberg's administration to continue giving the department the money it needs despite budget problems. His department has also been smart in moving the Police Department even further in a data-driven strategy that focuses resources on new criminal outbreaks before they become epidemics.
Mr. Bloomberg has taken enormous political heat for his conviction that tax increases were preferable to making drastic cuts in critical city services. The unexpectedly happy news on crime rates suggests that the mayor was right. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (93%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); BURGLARY (76%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TERRORISM (56%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (55%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%); RUDY GIULIANI (72%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; KELLY, RAYMOND W (COMR); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



291 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Threatens to Sue U.S. Regulator Over Loan Exemption 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, said yesterday that he might sue a federal bank regulator to force it to drop a plan to exempt national banks from states' lending laws.
 Mr. Spitzer was joined by Representatives Charles B. Rangel and Gregory W. Meeks, both Democrats from New York, and officials of several consumer groups in urging the bank regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, to withdraw its proposal, which they said could interfere with states' ability to protect consumers. 
"If the O.C.C. continues its misguided and wrongheaded mission to reduce the states' abilities to enforce consumer protection laws, I will not hesitate to sue," Mr. Spitzer said in a statement.
 The Comptroller of the Currency ruled in August in an individual case that national banks did not have to comply with state predatory lending laws. It then proposed to make formal its decision to grant all national banks exemptions from state lending laws.
 State officials and consumer groups have opposed the move to override state laws aimed at protecting consumers, including those to curb "predatory" lending practices.
 These lending abuses include exorbitant fees and interest rates and payments for undisclosed insurance products. 
 But the comptroller has the power to override state banking laws. "Federal pre-emption is not unprecedented," a spokesman, Bob Garsson, said. 
 Blacks and elderly Americans are more often the target of high-cost loans than other consumers, even if they carry credit profiles that do not portend a higher chance of default, according to a study released this week by the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, a consortium of consumer groups.
 While not all high-cost loans are predatory, lending abuses tend to occur with this type of loan. It was estimated by the consumer groups at the news conference that predatory lending costs consumers more than $9 billion annually.
 According to Mr. Garsson, most of the predatory lending occurs among nonbank institutions. "There's scant evidence predatory lending has gained a foothold in the national banking system."
 Lenders have criticized some of these laws for being too vague and making it too difficult to lend to the poor.
 In recent months, virtually all state attorneys general, several Senate Democrats and several New York Representatives sent letters to the comptroller, urging it to refrain from finalizing its plan.
 "We are evaluating comments. I don't know when the final rules will be issued," Mr. Garsson said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (94%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (93%); CONSUMER LAW (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FAIR LENDING (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); LITIGATION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%) HOUSING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STATES (US); MORTGAGES; CONSUMER PROTECTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%) COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); GREGORY W MEEKS (72%); CHARLES B RANGEL (72%) SPITZER, ELIOT L (ATTY GEN); MEEKS, GREGORY W (REPR); RANGEL, CHARLES B (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



292 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
AT&T Plans to Offer Internet-Based Service
The battle over the future of telephone service will break into the open today with an announcement from AT&T that it plans to offer unlimited long-distance and local calling using Internet technology at a significantly lower cost than conventional phone service.
 The move to offer Internet-based phone service follows similar announcements from Time Warner Cable and the BT Group of Britain. Together, they highlight the willingness of telecommunications companies to embrace a once-derided technology. Page A1. 

Oxford Shares Fall on Inquiry
Shares of Oxford Health Plans fell $1.06 on the news that Justice Department officials accused Medco Health Solutions, a large pharmacy benefit manager, of violating anti-kickback laws by paying $87.4 million to Oxford Health Plans. Executives and consultants said pharmacy benefit companies commonly offered millions of dollars in payments to important customers when signing contracts. C3.

British drug regulators recommended against the use of all but one of a new generation of antidepressants in the treatment of depressed children younger than 18. A1.

Spitzer Threatens to Sue Regulator
The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, said he might sue the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, a federal bank regulator, to force it to drop a plan to exempt national banks from state lending laws. Mr. Spitzer was joined by lawmakers from New York and officials of consumer groups in urging the regulator to withdraw its proposal. C7.

Stocks Fall a Bit on Rate Concerns
Mortgage lenders and homebuilders led stocks lower, amid speculation that interest rates would climb. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.13 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,059.05. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 1.56 points, to 9,921.86. The Nasdaq composite index lost 3.67 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,904.65. C7.

Labor Groups Protest Corporations
The labor movement demonstrated and marched in 70 cities to begin a campaign asserting that American corporations routinely violate an internationally guaranteed right to form unions. A41.

Start Up, Sell, Start Up, Sell
Howard Yellen, left, belongs to a special breed known as serial entrepreneurs. They thrive on the excitement of creating a company from scratch, but then they get restless or bored and move on to start another one. "I'll help my clients get their share of the money and then -- poof -- I'll be on the next start-up," said Mr. Yellen, 43, who has about 20 new business ideas in his pocket. Small Business. C6.

Parmalat Ratings Cut Again
Standard & Poor's reduced its credit rating on Parmalat, the Italian dairy giant, by four notches, a day after announcing a similar cut. S.&P said that Parmalat faced "a clear risk of default." Parmalat stock and bonds remained suspended from trading on Italian markets for a third day. World Business, Section W.

China Raises Loan Rate Ceiling
China's central bank has raised the maximum interest rates that banks can charge for commercial loans, a step that is likely to make credit more widely available to private enterprises. World Business, Section W.

Bringing Home the Jobs
Cities that attract businesses with tax breaks and other incentives generally make out well, a new study suggests, though the bidding wars may not be in the national interest. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Dow industrials -- 9,921.86 down 1.56Nasdaq composite -- 1,904.65 down 3.6710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.32% down 0.03The euro: $1.2220 down 0.0017The dollar: 108.26 yen up 1.47 Graph: "TODAY" shows retail sales figures since March 2003.November figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.7% Graph shows Oxford Health Plans share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (85%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); CREDIT REGULATION (74%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (66%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); CHILDREN (52%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); BT GROUP PLC (90%); PARMALAT SPA (80%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (57%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (55%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); BT (NYSE) (90%); BT (LSE) (90%); PLT (BIT) (80%); TWC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (90%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (80%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (80%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (80%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (56%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



293 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: Borrowing Outlook 

BYLINE:  By Heather Timmons (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Gordon Brown, the chan-cellor of the exchequer, said in a semiannual budget update to Parliament that the government would need to borrow $:34 billion ($59 billion) over the next five years, $:10 billion more than was expected in April. 
"It is right and prudent that, as in America, Japan and Germany, we borrow at this, the right time of the economic cycle," he said. Mr. Brown assumed the economy would grow 3 percent to 3.5 percent next year and in 2005, up from 2.1 percent this year. The faster pace could help pay off the debt. Heather Timmons (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); TRENDS (83%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; CREDIT 

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (90%) BROWN, GORDON (CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER); TIMMONS, HEATHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



294 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2374 words

HEADLINE: On a Hunt for Ways to Put Sex in the City 

BYLINE:  By JOHN LELAND

DATELINE: MEMPHIS 

 BODY:
ON a Tuesday night at a downtown lounge here, Ryan Flickinger, 30, was preaching the economics of hip. Specifically, he was talking about young professionals, the most mobile class in American history, who are choosing not to come to this river city despite what seem attractive amenities: cheap housing, good music, excellent barbecue and a major employer, FedEx, with 30,000 jobs in the area.
 "I want to start stealing those people from the cities of Chicago, St. Louis, Birmingham," he said. 
 His audience was about six dozen members of Mpact Memphis, a group of 900 volunteers in their 20's and 30's who joined in 2001 to try to help Memphis lure people like them. In marketing terms, their mission is to build a brand. 
This brand-building is part of a new wrinkle in urban development, said Anna McQuiston, 33, a volunteer at Mpact and the marketing director for a local real estate developer. "It's turning the formula around," she said. "You create an attractive place for people to live. Then the corporations will come after them."
Memphis, which has just over a million residents and is still scarred from the 1968 assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., is one of several cities that have come to see hip as a bottom line issue. In his 2002 book, "The Rise of the Creative Class," the economist Richard Florida wrote that the healthy cities of the 21st century will be those that can compete not for big companies but for educated, creative young people. This "creative class," he argued, will revitalize downtowns, start new companies, attract other entrepreneurs and build solid tax bases. Mr. Florida, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University, says that Austin, Seattle and Portland are thriving in part because they became hip destinations for young talent -- offering not just jobs, but cafes, clubs, tattoo parlors, tolerant gay neighborhoods and bike routes. "If places like Buffalo, Grand Rapids, Memphis and Louisville do not follow suit," he wrote, "they will be hard pressed to survive."
Christian Patterson, 31, a photographer, is one of the people cities like Memphis are trying to attract. Last year, he left a $750-a-month studio in Park Slope for a $500 one-bedroom in Memphis and a chance to work with the photographer William Eggleston.
In a leatherette booth at the Arcade Restaurant downtown, Mr. Patterson weighed the pros and cons. He said he made friends easily in the local rock scene, and the scenery was great to shoot. But he felt more racial tension and segregation than in Brooklyn.
Then he added: "There's a certain greater potential for weirdness here. It's a funky and eclectic town with funky and eclectic characters. There's a certain weird underlying sadness and mystery and heartbreak. You have the history of the civil rights movement here, and Memphis music was the soundtrack to it."
During the dot-com boom, theorists predicted that in a wired age, when people could work wherever they wanted, they would scatter away from central cities. The tech guru George Gilder wrote in 1990, "Big cities are leftover baggage from the industrial era." But the opposite has proven true. People and companies have flocked where the rents are highest, not lowest, to be in creative meccas with people like themselves. Where cities were once organized around the availability of coal, steel, transportation or labor, as Joel Kotkin noted in "The New Geography: How the Digital Revolution Is Reshaping the American Landscape" (2000), they now cluster around entrepreneurs, geeks and espresso bars.
In a 2001 paper, Mr. Florida and Gary Gates, a researcher at the Urban Institute in Washington, found that these geek clusters did not form in a vacuum. The cities with the most high-paying high-tech jobs also had high populations of bohemians, immigrants and gays and lesbians.
Without suggesting that one caused the other, the authors concluded that tolerant, funky, hip, diverse cities were also rich ones. "The losers are the cities that don't let these people organize and be themselves and express their energy," Mr. Florida said in a telephone interview. "A city that allowed a gay community to emerge 10 or 20 years ago, set up its own retail stores and clubs, a city that allowed a music scene to happen, a city that allowed an arts community to emerge -- there's something in the ecosystem of that community that allows individuals to get there, to be themselves and to mobilize resources. That of course is the same thing that high-tech entrepreneurs do."
Some economists question whether government can have much impact on this mix. Edward Glaeser, a professor of economics at Harvard, agrees with Mr. Florida that cities should court workers rather than companies, but observes that creating a good punk rock scene or Thai takeout restaurants is beyond the city charter.
"I have no idea that government can create a cultural scene," he said. "Say you set up a cultural office. You think these guys are going to get it right?" He added that politicians might hesitate to commit resources to amusements for "26-year-olds with advanced degrees" rather than less affluent parts of the population. Even where cultural scenes have attracted skilled workers, Mr. Glaeser said, real economic change can take decades.
Yet as cities around the country face budget crises and the flight of manufacturing jobs, this model is appealing. Young, childless musicians or gay couples will risk moving to neighborhoods with subpar school systems, fixer-upper housing stock or a little street crime, Mr. Gates said. In other words, they bring more resources than they consume. Though city officials make headlines with big capital projects, they may benefit more from attracting bright entrepreneurs. About 75 percent of new jobs come from companies with fewer than 500 employees, according to the most recent statistics by the federal Small Business Administration. Mr. Glaeser added that in almost every decade since the 1880's, the level of skills in a city has been the best predictor of economic growth.
In the same way that companies during the dot-com boom tried to present their offices as playgrounds, adding slides and masseurs, cities are now getting in on the act. In Michigan, Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm encouraged the mayors of 200 towns to form "cool commissions" to attract and retain the state's young people. In Baltimore, a nonprofit group called Live Baltimore Home Center, partly financed by the city, has gone after young professionals as "low-hanging fruit," as the group's executive director, Tracy Gosson, called them on National Public Radio. The group advertised in a gay newspaper in Washington, pitching one property naughtily as "completely stripped and ready for you to have your way with it."
And in Cincinnati, executives at Procter & Gamble, which has its headquarters there, have campaigned to repeal a local law known as Article XII, which prohibits the city from banning discrimination against gays and lesbians. The company maintained that the law was hurting its ability to attract young talent, gay or straight, to Cincinnati. Governing magazine, published by Congressional Quarterly Inc. for state and local government officials, made the campaign the cover story of its October issue, asking, "Is a Gay Population an Engine of Urban Revival?"
For Memphis, the impetus was the 2000 census figures and tax data. Though the city's population had grown by nearly 6,000 since 1995, and though its capital investment led the state, its net income had fallen by almost $90 million.
"That was alarming," said R. Marc Jordan, president of the Memphis Regional Chamber. "We had to ask, 'Is this another way to measure a community's viability?' " City leaders concluded that people were being born, but that recent college graduates, the most mobile members of society, were not choosing to move to Memphis, and that workers moving in earned less than those moving out.
Companies like FedEx had trouble recruiting young people or finding qualified candidates in town. Though Memphis had a lower cost of living than places like Austin, New York or Seattle, when companies interviewed job candidates, "people said that it's a dull river city, and that there's a lot of racial tension," said Jim Wallace Jr., head of recruiting at FedEx.
Mr. Wallace said that while the city had made great progress on both those problems, the word had not reached many job candidates. "We find that if we can get people to visit the city, our success rate goes up," he said.
For Memphis, the climb to hip would be considerable. In Mr. Florida's rankings of the 49 urban areas with more than a million people, Memphis ranked 48th as a tech center, 41st as welcoming to gays and 40th as a mecca for artists, writers and musicians.
In March 2001 the city, the chamber of commerce and surrounding Shelby County began a study called the Memphis Talent Magnet Project, with counsel from Mr. Florida, to address the problem. In offices here you can hear people use the phrase "creative class" in conversation. At Empire Coffee on South Main Street downtown, Mr. Florida's book stands at attention on a shelf.
For cities as for individuals, though, cool does not come easy. At midday recently, there were zero pedestrians on South Main Street near Tonic, a stylish new fashion boutique run by Katrina Shelton, 35, who moved back to Memphis after studying at the Parsons School of Design in New York. She called herself a pioneer, drawn to a retail space she could not have afforded in SoHo. She lives in a loft nearby. "You've heard of the creative class, Richard Florida?" she asked. "They're recognizing that. No, it hasn't happened yet. I think it's happening." Though the city is helping developers, she said, it is doing less for renters like her.
After the Talent Magnet report, Memphis revamped its promotional literature, which had offered sleepy images of riverboats or Elvis, and accelerated tax breaks to developers to convert downtown industrial buildings into loft apartments. These supplement more conventional big-budget redevelopment projects, including downtown sports centers and a mall. "We're trying to create walkable communities," said A. C. Wharton Jr., mayor of Shelby County, whose campaign platform included trying to attract young talent. "The folks we're talking about are not interested in long commutes in and out. They may work all hours of day or night."
Mayor Wharton said that while it was important for the city to welcome gays and lesbians, he did not feel government should lead this effort. "The worst way would be to set up an initiative with a gay label on it that brings a backlash," he said. Rather, he said that as in Cincinnati, business leaders should push for tolerance in their own interest. At FedEx, the company offers extensive tolerance training programs, but unlike Procter & Gamble, it does not extend benefits to employees' domestic partners, said Mr. Wallace, the recruiting chief.
Some gays and lesbians said that except in certain neighborhoods, Memphis was not always hospitable. Rumi Toninaga, 25, said she was asked to leave a store for holding hands with her girlfriend. "Being called out was atypical," she said. "But intolerance was typical."
Developers in the downtown area around South Main Street, which emptied out after the King assassination, have for the last few years offered low rents to galleries to foster an arts district. One of the first, the Jay Etkin Gallery, arrived in 1999, in a heavily discounted 8,000-square-foot warehouse. Other galleries and a few restaurants, bars and cafes have followed. "I made a partnership with the landlord to be an arts developer," Mr. Etkin said. At the time, the neighborhood was deserted, he said. Now, he added, "what you start to see are young girls with dogs in the morning -- and joggers."
To help recruiters, volunteers from Mpact Memphis take visiting job applicants or summer interns around the city -- not just to the tourist mecca of Beale Street, but to ethnic restaurants, art galleries and other less obvious spots.
To encourage entrepreneurs, the city helped finance a business incubator called Emerge Memphis, where 21 startup companies receive subsidized rents and free professional advice. The incubator is near the arts district. The city also adopted plans for greenbelts and bike trails along the Mississippi to appeal to active young adults.
The results so far are mixed. In the slumping national economy, the city has been unable to create new jobs, which was a major goal, said Mr. Jordan of the chamber of commerce.
Christopher Reyes, 34, said he ran up against the city's reputation when he tried to start an interactive music company. "It didn't do well because no one thinks of Memphis as a tech place," he said. He was ready to leave in 2001, he said, until his music work took him to clubs like the Young Avenue Deli and the Hi Tone Cafe, where he discovered a rich supply of bands -- one factor behind the growth of Austin, Seattle and Chapel Hill, N.C., according to Mr. Florida. Mr. Reyes stayed and started livefrommemphis.com, an online slice of the local music experience.
"This is our treasure, but people are still promoting Elvis," he said. In a computer-filled loft downtown, where he also lives and teaches karate, he streamed samples of local music from his Web site. The city's music commission has expressed interest in supporting the site, which he pays for himself, "but they're not even close yet," he said.
"The most help I get from the city is exposure," he added. "This isn't something that they embrace quickly, because it's a lot of technology they don't understand." 
John Gasquet, 33, belongs to the class Memphis is trying to court. Two years ago, after losing a job designing computer systems in Las Vegas, he moved to Memphis and joined a Web developer. In June he opened Empire Coffee, where he displays Mr. Florida's book on a shelf. He has since started a coffee distributorship and opened a kiosk in a local hospital. Looking at a nearly empty sidewalk outside, he said that things used to be worse.
"This is a long, involved project," he said. "There's no magic bullet. We're not Manhattan or New Orleans. If we try to be Manhattan or New Orleans, we fail."

GRAPHIC: Photos: CALCULUS OF COOL -- Signs of life in Memphis include a shop opened by Katrina Shelton, top left, and the Young Avenue Deli, top center, where the Sophisticats played recently, top right. Center right, a downtown trolley. Bottom right, Christian Patterson, who moved from Brooklyn. Bottom left, industrial remnants are now lofts, left, and a business incubator, right. (Photographs by Christian Patterson bottom left and second from left at top and Rollin A. Riggs for The New York Times)(pg. F1); PIONEERS -- Ryan Flickinger, above, a member of Mpact Memphis, at its holiday loft party, left. The group is trying to lure young talent to the city.; SCENE MAKERS -- Jay Etkin, above, an artist who owns the 8,000-square-foot Jay Etkin Gallery, is trying to generate an arts scene in the South Main Street district of Memphis, above right, which deteriorated after the 1968 assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Christopher Reyes, far right, uses his downtown loft to teach karate and run a Web site that promotes local music. The Hi Tone Cafe, near right, is one of the local music clubs. Below, the Memphis skyline. (Photographs by Christian Patterson inset far left, at right in second row, and bottom and Rollin A. Riggs for The New York Times)(pg. F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (75%); BRANDING (74%); LITERATURE (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); TATTOO PARLORS (62%) Urban Areas; Geographic Profiles; Books and Literature; Urban Areas; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: John Leland; Richard (Prof) Florida

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



295 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: TURF; 
Nightmares On Mold Street

BYLINE:  By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
FOR 32 days, William Wessling, a 44-year-old chef in Pineville, N.C., was forced to stay out of his condominium because of a sore throat, pains in his fingers and neck and other ailments that his doctors attributed to mold behind his baseboards and kitchen cabinets.
 After $3,300 to clean out the mold, Mr. Wessling is spending nearly $2,000 on doors, gutters and grading to make sure it doesn't comes back. "It was nasty," Mr. Wessling said. "It can sneak up on you." 
 Toxic mold began making headlines nearly a decade ago when fungi like Stachybotrys atra and penicillium were discovered spreading their wispy Addam's Family tendrils up library partitions and down school hallways. The mold was said to cause flu- or asthmalike symptoms, skin rashes, heart palpitations, headaches, respiratory problems and chronic fatigue. Then the fear of mold spread to the home. 
While mold claims increase, and new products are introduced to combat mold, some doctors are questioning whether molds cause many of the ills attributed to them. Insurance companies are excluding mold coverage in many states, and some builders are skeptical about the efficacy of new mold retardants.
Kirk Hansen, director of claims for the Alliance of American Insurers, a trade group in Downers Grove, Ill., said there are 10,000 active lawsuits involving mold in homes. Bianca Jagger has sued her Park Avenue landlord for $20 million, alleging that the company failed to fix a persistent leak that caused mold to spread across a wall in her rental apartment. Across the avenue, at 515 Park, condominium owners are suing a developer over construction defects they say caused a mold outbreak in their multimillion-dollar apartments.
Last month, a jury in Salem, Mass., awarded Katrine Stevens, a former condo owner in nearby Gloucester, $549,326 in damages and interest after she was exposed to mold that her doctors said made it difficult for her to breathe and forced her to leave her home after just a month and a half. 
Despite some doubt about what ills can in fact be attributed to mold, insurers paid out $3 billion on mold-related claims last year, more than double the $1.4 billion in 2001, according to the Insurance Information Institute, a New York-based trade association. 
Now, Robert Hartwig, chief economist at the institute, said many insurers will no longer cover claims related to mold. In fact, he said, 43 states (not including New York) have already made it legal for homeowners policies to exclude mold coverage. Mr. Wessling paid for his repairs out of his own pocket, he said, because his insurance didn't cover mold damage. 
"It's a nightmare because we've lived with mold for thousands, if not millions of years," said Stuart Saft, a real estate lawyer and chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums. "And now every time anybody sees any mold whatsoever, they immediately feel that their life is in danger and that it's building-eating mold."
The lawsuits, the occasional legal victory and the headlines have generated an anxiety about mold that has created its own industry for prevention and care.
Some measures to prevent mold are obvious and cost nothing; builders can make sure that wallboard and other materials stay dry during construction. Some builders are paying extra to install wall panels or paints meant to be mold-retardant. Others are handing out brochures and videos to home buyers urging them to use bathroom fans and kitchen exhaust hoods regularly. In humid climates, residents are advised to close their doors and windows and use the air-conditioners, which act as dehumidifiers. 
Concern about liability means apartment owners and managers respond more quickly to complaints about leaks. And people building homes are not relying on others to protect them: they are installing leak-detection systems, or demanding customized houses built without wallboard or drywall, where mold seems to thrive. 
None of this has escaped the notice of home builders and property owners, who foresee additional liability as insurers shirk the burden.
During construction at the Time Warner Center, the high-profile condominium project at Columbus Circle in Manhattan, the developers hired environmental engineers to conduct weekly inspections of various floors of the building to locate potential mold risks.
David J. Wine, vice chairman of the Related Companies, which is developing the center with Apollo Real Estate Advisors, said his company had conducted mold-prevention inspections on two other buildings, mostly in response to headlines about toxic mold. Mr. Wine said the engineer at Time Warner recommended that the builders remove wet wallboard or other building materials.
Wet building materials were fairly common as home builders and condo developers rushed to put up structures during the housing boom that began in the late 1990's, said George Benda, chief executive of Chelsea Group, an Itasca, Ill.-based testing and remediation business specializing in indoor air quality. In their haste, he said, builders often install fixtures like cabinetwork and carpeting before cement or wallboard has dried.
Drywall can also get wet if it isn't adequately protected from rain and snow. If that moisture is trapped inside the building, it can lead to the growth of mold. 
Besides being unsightly, a mold like Stachybotrys atra (pronounced stock-ee-BAH-trus AH-tra) can create serious problems for people with impaired immune systems, like cancer patients, and many people can develop mold allergies, which lead to hay-fever or asthma-like symptoms.
Doctors are less certain about claims that exposure to molds leads to memory loss, nerve damage, arthritis and fatigue. "The evidence is more mixed," said Dr. Stephen Redd, chief of air pollution and the respiratory health branch at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. 
Nevertheless, the C.D.C. urges anyone who discovers mold at home to remove it promptly. More important, Dr. Redd said, is to stop the source of the mold. "If you just clean up the mold, put the same material back and don't deal with the water problem," he said, "you're going to have the mold problem again shortly."
Because leaks can go undetected for days, if not months, FloLogic Inc. of Raleigh, N.C., makes a device that monitors water flow in houses and shuts off the water to a house at the main line if it detects water flowing for more than a predetermined time, say, 30 minutes. 
"I would hate to have a situation where the water just runs for two weeks without anyone knowing about it," said Chip Barnes, a venture capital investment banker who has bought the system for his 19th-century two-story bungalow in Rye, N.Y.
FloLogic, which introduced the product in 2001, is negotiating a deal with Policyholders of America, an advocacy group based in Austin, Tex., that wants to bring out its own homeowners insurance policy next year. 
Melinda Ballard, the group's founder, said homeowners who want coverage for water damage and mold will have to buy a FloLogic system. Ms. Ballardwell knows the risks of mold: after rampant mold growth forced her and her family to flee their Texas home, she sued her insurer for failing to pay for repairs that would have eliminated the moisture. She was awarded a jury verdict of $32 million, later reduced to $4 million.
Some home builders are trying to protect houses from mold even if leaks do occur. The Lennar Corporation, a large national home builder based in Miami, has replaced the moisture-resistant wallboard normally used in bathrooms with a cement-based product that it says resists moisture more effectively. The company also coats wood and wallboard with antimicrobial sprays when deemed necessary based on geography and climate. 
Companies that have developed mold-retardant products say sales are growing briskly. Georgia Pacific, the Atlanta-based paper and building materials company, last year introduced a new wall panel sandwiched between glass panels to protect against mold growth. A spokeswoman said sales were growing about 30 percent a month. 
Sales of a mold-resistant sealant made by Fiberlock Technologies in Andover, Mass., are up sevenfold in the last two years, said Andre Weker, director of marketing at Fiberlock. 
But some builders question whether those products are as effective as their makers promise. "There is no universal protocol on how to evaluate these building products," said Kevin Powell, research analyst and wood-product specialist at the National Association of Homebuilders Research Center.
What's more, said David Jaffe, vice president for construction liability for the National Association of Homebuilders, new treatments for deterring mold might have other drawbacks, like causing building materials to degrade faster. "We don't want to address one problem and create others," he said. 
Trying to stem the risk of mold in the construction process is one thing, but keeping it at bay throughout the life of the home is another. Chris D'Andrea, an environmental scientist at the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene in New York, said owners need to monitor plumbing regularly for leaks, repoint brick facades so rainwater can't seep in, repair roofs and terraces and remind tenants to keep bathrooms and shower stalls clean. 
Still, many homeowners and building managers don't believe mold can happen to them. "It's easier to get people to do something about mold once it happens than to take the steps to keep it from happening," said Eva Talel, a Manhattan lawyer who advises co-op and condo boards on how to prevent mold in their buildings. "That's the next level of consciousness raising."

GRAPHIC: Photos: WATER (AND ITS CONSEQUENCES) EVERYWHERE -- Chip Barnes, above left, is installing a leak-detecting system at his house in Rye, N.Y.; right, William Wessling, in his condominium in North Carolina, paid for repairs to eliminate mold in his kitchen. (Photos by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times, left; Robert Padgett for The New York Times)(pg. F8) Chart: "A Rising Tide"Insurance companies are paying increasing amounts for coverage of mold damage. Graph tracks total insurance payouts for mold damage, measured in billions, from 1999 to 2002. (Source by Insurance Information Institute)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOLDS & FUNGI (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (87%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); INFLUENZA (73%); SKIN DISORDERS (72%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (72%); DAMAGES (72%); CONSTRUCTION INSURANCE (72%); INSURANCE POLICIES (72%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (72%); JURY TRIALS (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%) Mold; Suits and Litigation; Housing ; Insurance; States (US); Law and Legislation; Mold

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%); ALLIANCE OF AMERICAN INSURERS (55%)

PERSON: Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



296 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Ridge Favors a Status Short of Citizenship for Illegal Immigrants 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge has called for millions of illegal immigrants in the United States to be given some sort of legal status short of citizenship, a proposal suggesting that the Bush administration might revive an ambitious legalization plan that was sidetracked after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 In comments on Tuesday at a town hall meeting in Miami, Mr. Ridge said, "The bottom line is, as a country, we have to come to grips with the presence of 8 to 12 million illegals, afford them some kind of legal status some way." 
 Mr. Ridge, who became the government's chief spokesman on immigration issues after his new department took control over immigration policy this year, said the government might consider legalizing the status of illegal immigrants already in the country on a one-time basis.
Do "Then, as a country, you make a decision that from this day forward, this is the process of entry, and if you violate that process of entry, we have resources to cope with it," he said in response to a question from the audience at Miami-Dade Community College about his support for changes in immigration policy.
Aides to Mr. Ridge said that his comments were not scripted and not formally approved by the White House but that they reflected a growing view in the Bush administration that the federal government needed to find a way to register illegal immigrants, if only for reasons of national security.
Brian J. Roehrkasse, Mr. Ridge's spokesman, said, "The secretary acknowledges that we have several million people here illegally, and he understands that for homeland security reasons, at some point in time, there needs to be a better way to identify those who may be a threat to our country."
Before the Sept. 11 attacks, the administration had appeared eager to reach agreement with the government of President Vicente Fox in Mexico on a plan to provide legal status to millions of Mexicans illegally in the United States, a proposal advocated largely on economic and humanitarian grounds.
The administration's enthusiasm for the proposal evaporated after Sept. 11, when the attention of law enforcement and intelligence agencies turned to blocking illegal immigrants from entering the United States and finding -- and often deporting -- those who were here.
In his comments in Florida, Mr. Ridge said that the issue of legalization needed to be revived and that the government would need to find a way to provide some sort of legal protection to people who entered the United States illegally. He insisted, however, that the protections would not included citizenship.
"I'm not saying make them citizens, because they violated the law to get here," he said. "So you don't reward that type of conduct by turning over a citizenship certificate." 
He offered no details on what sort of legal status might be offered to the immigrants, although administration officials have previously suggested that illegal immigrants might be granted work permits and provided with drivers' licenses.
Mr. Ridge's comments were welcomed by immigrant-rights groups. Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said his remarks were "a good step forward," adding "It's a signal that we can come back to the table and talk about what is realistic." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TERRORISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (66%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Citizenship; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%) Philip Shenon; Tom (Dir) Ridge; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



297 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: HORSE RACING; 
N.Y.R.A. Is Reported Ready to Settle

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The New York Racing Association will pay millions of dollars in fines and adopt anticorruption reforms to avoid a federal fraud prosecution, law enforcement sources said yesterday, speaking on condition of anonymity.
 The authorities will announce the settlement at a news conference today, the sources said. 
 A spokesman for the racing association, Glen Mathes, confirmed that its board of trustees met privately yesterday. He declined to discuss whether the trustees signed off on a deal.
Prosecutors declined to comment, as did a lawyer for the N.Y.R.A., Denis J. McInerney.
Federal investigators have looked into the racing association's operations for three years since the State Racing and Wagering Board discovered suspicious behavior by track tellers. As a result, 16 tellers were convicted of tax evasion, and three were convicted of money laundering.
Racing officials have warned that a criminal case against the N.Y.R.A. could cause the loss of its state franchise, cost the state hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue and destroy the economy of Saratoga Springs, home of Saratoga Race Course. The N.Y.R.A. has been the nonprofit operator of the Saratoga, Aqueduct and Belmont tracks since 1955. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ETHICS (78%); SPORTS (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); TAX LAW (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%) Horse Racing; Frauds and Swindling; Fines (Penalties); Ethics

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Racing Assn

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (58%) SIC7948 RACING; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



298 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: White House Attacked for Letting States Lead on Climate 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN and JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
Several times at the talks now going on in Milan over a global warming treaty, Bush administration officials have portrayed states' actions to curb heat-trapping gases as evidence of American resolve. 
 But in this country, officials in many of those same states are strongly criticizing the administration's statements, saying their efforts are no substitute for federal action. 
 The focus of the criticism is a speech in Milan last Thursday by Dr. Harlan L. Watson, the administration's chief climate negotiator. Listing a variety of initiatives begun by states and communities, Dr. Watson said they were like "laboratories where new and creative ideas and methods can be applied and shared with others and inform federal policy, a truly bottom-up approach to addressing global climate change." 
But in Washington State, Gov. Gary Locke, a Democrat, said the administration was using state initiatives as cover for its own inaction. 
"The states are taking action for one simple reason: because the federal government is not," Mr. Locke said. "For the White House to say it is looking for leadership from the states is just an excuse to delay and procrastinate. We are limited in what the states can do. We need a national policy to address global warming."
Administration officials and some industry groups say Mr. Watson had it just right, that having the states take the lead is in the best federalist tradition.
Still, even some groups often critical of environmental regulations said the speech would cause trouble for the administration at home.
"It's not surprising that the administration, when it goes in front of an international body like this, is going to brag about all the initiatives undertaken on global warming at the state level," said Jerry Taylor, director of natural resources studies for the libertarian Cato Institute. "What's the alternative? To go and say we're taking no significant steps and don't intend to in the near future?" 
The speech's text is at www.state .gov/g/oes/rls/rm/2003/26894.htm.
Some Republican governors are distancing themselves from the administration's Milan position without directly criticizing it.
"They have not yet taken climate change on as a real issue and developed policies," said a senior aide to one such governor, George E. Pataki of New York. "We are going to keep pushing them."
Mr. Pataki has led an effort to institute a 2005 regional cap for heat-trapping emissions for states from Maryland to Maine, and is pursuing New York legislation similar to California's new law requiring curbs in such emissions from cars. Mr. Pataki also supports a federal limit on emissions of carbon dioxide, the dominant heat-trapping gas, from power plants as part of a broader cleanup of the plants.
The Bush administration opposes mandatory limits on the gases and state efforts to curtail such emissions from cars. None of Mr. Pataki's proposals involving mandatory curbs were among the projects described by Dr. Watson, who focused on voluntary plans like inventories of the gases.
Erin M. Crotty, Mr. Pataki's environment commissioner, declined yesterday to discuss the Bush administration's position. "I'll just say from our perspective New York will continue to be a leader," she said.
The Milan meeting, which ends tomorrow, is intended to gauge countries' progress under the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change, and to hash out details of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, an amendment to the original pact requiring cuts in gas emissions by industrialized countries.
The 1992 treaty calls for voluntary action to avoid "dangerous" human interference with the climate. President Bush has said he intends to adhere to that treaty, but has rejected the Kyoto pact because it does not apply to China and other developing countries and because he says it could hurt the nation's economy. Last week, Russia also indicated that it would reject the treaty.
The American delegation in Milan has faced withering criticism throughout the meeting for its position on the Kyoto treaty, and American officials said that Dr. Watson's comments were intended to illustrate that the country was doing things now to deal with warming. 
"We're continually getting criticized that we're not doing anything practically at any level except pie-in-the-sky far-out research stuff which won't have any near-term impact," an American representative at the meeting said. 
In a telephone interview, Dr. Watson said his statement was meant to reflect that "there is a broad effort going on in the United States on many levels to address global climate change."
Dr. Watson, a physicist, heads a National Security Council committee on climate policy and has participated in international climate talks for more than a decade.
Among domestic climate initiatives he described in Milan were programs in 13 states requiring utilities to produce increasing amounts of power using nonpolluting sources like the wind and the sun. President Bush signed one such program into law as governor of Texas.
But yesterday, environmental groups pointed out that the administration had successfully sought to exclude similar federal standards from its energy bill, which fell short of passage last month. 
Many officials and private groups working on climate policy argue that scattered state and local actions are not an effective way to deal with gases, like carbon dioxide, that flow every time a fossil fuel is burned, stay aloft for up to a century and drift throughout the atmosphere. A dozen states and three cities recently filed suit against the administration in an effort to compel it to regulate greenhouse gases. 
"Nobody wants a situation where there are 50 different states dealing with climate on their own," said Joel Levin, the vice president for business development of the California Climate Action Registry. This nonprofit group, created under state legislation, enlists companies to tally and register their emissions of greenhouse gases, a prelude to cutting emissions and getting credit for the change. 
"It's fine that action starts at the state level, but it can't stay that way indefinitely," Mr. Levin said. "It's a global issue. The thing about CO2 is it's not a local problem. The CO2 emitted in Los Angeles has just as much impact in Bangladesh as in L.A. That's why people are trying to address it on a global level."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harlan L. Watson, the administration's chief climate negotiator, in Milan, drew criticism after taking credit for the actions of states. (Photo by United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (69%); NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%) Weather; Global Warming; Air Pollution; States (US)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (59%)

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (73%) Andrew C Revkin; Jennifer 8 Lee; George W (Pres) Bush; Harlan L Watson

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (58%) Milan (Italy)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



299 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Despite Physical Problems, an Indomitable Will to Work

BYLINE:  By ANNA BAHNEY

 BODY:
Terrence Murrain, 46, pointed to a swollen area on the right side of his forehead, the very spot where a shunt was inserted in 1990 to drain fluid from a benign cyst on his brain. The cyst had caused him to collapse one day in Harlem Park, and he woke up in Harlem Hospital Center.
 In fact, the cyst has altered his whole life. 
 Mr. Murrain has undergone brain surgery three times in the past 13 years, and is now unemployed and living in a shelter. His mother, Gloria Murrain, 65, and hisdaughter, Monay Stanley, 26, talk with a weary conviction about their hopes for him. 
Mrs. Murrain said that her son needed to "get on his feet, have a source of income, and function as best as can be."
But his daughter has a different view of his struggle and prospects.
"She sees the glass half full," Ms. Stanley, 26, said of her grandmother. "I see it half empty. If you're seeing his pattern, you will see that this person cannot function. It's not that he doesn't want to or isn't willing. He's not able."
Fortunately there has been help, and friendship, from Dominic Liantonio, a licensed mental health counselor and senior employment specialist at the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, one of seven agencies that participate in The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
"Terrence has a lot of wonderful traits and has a lot going for him," Mr. Liantonio said. "However, he does have this disability that doesn't always appear like a disability. It appears that he is just acting this way. Being antisocial."
Mr. Murrain, who also has diabetes and is insulin-dependent, said he wanted to work, but: "I get on a job, I might last six months, I might last two months. I have seizures. And a lot of places don't want to hire you if you have seizures."
In fact, Ms. Stanley says, this has been the sad pattern of her father's life for a long time now. "Every time, from '90 to 2000, he was gainfully employed, he would have the seizures," she said. "The doctors said he's not supposed to lift. The work puts stress on it, it makes it grow. And he was unable to work."
Being unable to work meant more than just a limited income for Mr. Murrain. He had already worked hard to overcome a long addiction to crack cocaine, having entered a rehabilitation program at the Addicts Rehabilitation Center in Harlem in 1990. Just as one obstacle to confidence and self-sufficiency had been surmounted, along came a new one to isolate and frustrate him.
But Mr. Murrain was fortunate, he said, to be referred by the center to the community service bureau. There, he found employment training in the Projects With Industry program. He worked for five months in the bureau's in-house training workshops, which included assembly-line work, food service, security and his area, packaging.
"The pay was lousy," he said, "but you get good experience. When you go into the outside world you know more about the packing business, about shipping and receiving."
In his longest employment after that training, Mr. Murrain worked for International Total Services, a contractor at an airline check-in at La Guardia Airport, where he was a skycap from February 2000 to January 2001. He received excellent marks on his evaluation. But his health problems were never far away. When his seizures began again, he left to have brain surgery.
A series of short-term jobs followed, punctuated by health complications; he has not worked since April of this year, when he was employed for 11 days at a fast-food restaurant.
Mr. Murrain had been living with his mother and daughter. But a family can do only so much, despite their love. Mrs. Murrain, who lives on Social Security, is diabetic and has a dislocated hip. Ms. Stanley's own resources are stretched thin. She is a single mother with two children, goes to school and works as a cook in a day care center.
Mr. Liantonio has arranged for Mr. Murrain to begin programs at the International Center for the Disabled in Manhattan, because of its specialty, traumatic brain injury rehabilitation.
"We're looking for all possible ways to find Terrence support," Mr. Liantonio said. "I don't want to let go, because hopefully maybe we will find the key and be able to help direct his life."
For this transition, Mr. Liantonio not only secured $200 from the Neediest Cases Fund for new clothes for Mr. Murrain, but also helped him choose sneakers, jeans, sweatshirts, underwear and socks so he could feel confident going to the center for the disabled.
Mr. Murrain says Mr. Liantonio is a big brother. "He might be anybody else's counselor, but he's a big brother to me. He's been in my court since I came here."
The big brother summed up: "My experience with Terrence is that he's wanted to be on his own two feet. It hasn't been an easy road. We just haven't quit yet."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $3,857,534.88
Recorded Tuesday: 134,310.78
Total: $3,991,845.66

Last year to date: $4,232,166.42

GRAPHIC: Photo: Terrence Murrain, 46, has a brain cyst that causes occasional seizures. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); BRAIN (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (65%); DIABETES (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (62%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (62%); COCAINE (62%) 

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%)

PERSON: Anna Bahney; Terrence Murrain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



300 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: At Russian Paper, A New Hint Of Intrigue; 
Buyer of New York Daily Must Read It From Afar

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
It has been a month of worried whispering in the newsroom of the only Russian-language daily newspaper in New York City.
 First, a somewhat mysterious businessman bought control of the paper. Vadim Z. Rabinovich, a media tycoon with holdings -- and citizenship -- in Ukraine and Israel, paid an undisclosed amount for more than half of the paper. 
 But Mr. Rabinovich, who amassed his fortune during Ukraine's post-Soviet free-for-all, could not visit to inspect his new purchase, apparently because his United States visa was revoked in the 1990's. Privacy laws prohibit the release of details on that revocation. Mr. Rabinovich worked briefly for Grigory Luchansky, a Russian businessman who was denied an American visa in 1994 because of alleged ties to organized crime. 
Mr. Rabinovich sent one of his employees, an American-trained young Ukrainian, last month to stamp the mark of the new ownership on the paper, Novoye Russkoye Slovo. She renegotiated contracts and, in a cost-cutting measure, moved the page-design functions to Ukraine from America, where it had been based since the paper's start in 1910.
The changes were too much for some reporters. Two out of eight resigned. Ten members of the design staff were dismissed when their department moved abroad.
"The oldest Russian newspaper in America is being bought by someone who cannot even come to America," said Alexander Grant, a crime reporter who resigned from the paper because he could not agree on a contract with his new employer. "For a newspaper that once published Bunin," Mr. Grant added, referring to the popular Russian emigre poet, "to end with this is rather shameful."
Novoye Russkoye Slovo has an illustrious past. It was founded in 1910 as the first Russian-language daily in America. Beyond Ivan Bunin, it published other emigre writers, such as Aleksandr Kerensky, the revolutionary pushed aside by the Bolsheviks. It is the only daily newspaper among 36 Russian-language periodicals in the city. (It publishes every day but Sunday.)
But in recent years, financial difficulties have plagued it. The paper's management would not confirm its daily circulation, but Valery Weinberg, its former owner, who has remained as editor in chief, said that circulation was down 25 percent from its peak in the mid-1980's. 
The flow of immigrants has ebbed, and many young readers prefer the Internet to newspapers. The paper came under further financial strain when Mr. Weinberg invested in a round-the-clock Russian-language radio station.
Mr. Weinberg, who kept a small stake in the paper, which the new management says is not now profitable, sees its financial problems as the simple arithmetic of capitalism. 
"It's a process of survival," Mr. Weinberg said, in his corner office in the paper's newsroom on the ninth floor of a Midtown Manhattan office building. "These are big changes. Not everyone likes them. But we live in a free country with free enterprise. The newspaper covered the fall of the czar, the Russian revolution, the American Depression, the Soviet dissident movement and the fall of the Soviet Union. I could either put it in a museum or modernize it."
Truth be told, there is much room for improvement. The new manager, Larisa Mudrak -- a 35-year-old who worked for nine years at Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, an American-financed radionetwork in former Communist countries -- said the paper's daily habits were almost Soviet in their laxness. Articles would ramble before stating the news. Editors did not hold meetings, so articles would overlap or news was sometimes missed. Headlines sounded wooden and said nothing, she said. 
"For me, it was surprising," Ms. Mudrak said, sitting behind a laptop computer, with an instant messenger electronic chat system running. "It's a sleepy paper. It doesn't have the energy of today."
But as the only Russian-language daily in New York, it is a valuable asset and a good business investment, Mr. Rabinovich said in a telephone interview from Ukraine. The style, he said, "should be more progressive and young." 
"Any serious American manager would fire 98 percent of the staff," he said, citing what he called high wages and overstaffing.
Mr. Rabinovich, 50, was one of a group of nimble businessmen who grew rich during the economic chaos after the fall of the Soviet Union. He benefited from close ties to power in Ukraine throughout most the 1990's, with holdings mostly in media companies. He is also a leader of the Ukrainian Jewish community and has financed community activities.
"Rabinovich had murky origins -- everybody knew that," said Katia Diuk, director for Europe and Eurasia at the National Endowment for Democracy, a nonprofit group in Washington.
On Aug. 23, 1995, Mr. Rabinovich's visa was revoked, according to a State Department official.
Ms. Diuk met with Mr. Rabinovich in the mid-1990's in Kiev. At that meeting, she said, "he was trying hard to present an image of himself as a normal regular businessman."
"He showered me with little mementos of Jewish life in Ukraine," she continued. "He wants to be seen as someone who has done something useful."
Mr. Rabinovich denied that his visa had ever been revoked and said that he had visited the United States after 1995. He also dismissed the charges about Mr. Luchansky, and said that their only business together was a commodities deal in 1994.
"I am sick of hearing about this Luchansky," said Mr. Rabinovich, adding that Mr. Luchansky's company, Nordex, "was empty -- a soap bubble."
"He wagged his tongue," Mr. Rabinovich continued, "more than he actually did business."
Ms. Mudrak is as transparent as Mr. Rabinovich is opaque. (Days after Mr. Rabinovich bought Novoye Russkoye Slovo, he sold it to an unidentified international group. Mr. Rabinovich says that he is among the group's owners.)
Ms. Mudrak works behind a conference table in the paper's glass-walled conference room. A constant flow of editors pepper her with questions about headlines and the placement of articles. She communicates with Ukraine by instant messenger to save money.
Some of the newspaper's journalists bristled at the charge of laxness.
"We never had people just sitting around eating sandwiches and smoking," said Vadim Yarmolinets, a reporter who has worked at the paper since 1990. 
Mr. Yarmolinets said the newspaper's hard fortunes traced back to the Soviet collapse and the fall in prestige of journalism in the Russian community. Today, young arrivals to America prefer more financially rewarding professions, he said.
No one seems to know why Mr. Rabinovich bought -- and then sold -- the paper. Maybe it was truly a straightforward investment, journalists mused. It is also possible that it was a bid to help boost Mr. Rabinovich's image in the United States. Maybe it was both.
Whatever the case, as the weeks go by, the journalists who stayed are beginning to conclude that Mr. Rabinovich's managers are serious about making the paper better.
"These people really want to make an American paper," said Maya Pritsker, editor of the paper's culture section. "They are not dictating topics to us. They are listening to us. I like that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Larisa Mudrak, left, the new manager of Novoye Russkoye Slovo, meeting with, from left, Irina Leykina, Felix Gorodetsky, Oleg Sulkin and Maya Pritsker. The paper, founded in 1910, is published six days a week. (Photo by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times); (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); WRITERS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); CITIZENSHIP (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); DIVESTITURES (60%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (55%) Newspapers; Russian Language; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Finances; Relocation of Business; Newspapers; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Novoye Russkove Slovo (Newspaper)

PERSON: Sabrina Tavernise; Vadim Z Rabinovich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) New York City; Ukraine

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



301 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Taking Down a Bear Is Hard. Standing It Back Up Is Harder. 

BYLINE:  By JILL P. CAPUZZO

DATELINE: LEBANON, N.J., Dec. 10 

 BODY:
After the protesters protested and the hunters hunted, people like John Person got down to work on the spoils of New Jersey's first bear hunt in 33 years.
 From the small number of butchers willing to skin and cut up these cumbersome, fatty creatures, to the larger number of taxidermists eager to turn the carcasses into open-mouthed rugs and scary statues, New Jersey's wildlife aftermarket is getting a boost this week. The economic bonus will be especially sweet if hunters meet the State Division of Fish and Wildlife's goal of culling the bear population by about 500. 
 Being careful not to pierce the hide while keeping all toes, claws and paw pads intact, Mr. Person was sweating on Wednesday as he tried to remove the skin from a 209-pound bear lying in a metal cradle in his butcher shop. This was the second bear in as many days that the 67-year-old butcher was asked to skin and process, a chore he described as more of an aggravation than a reward. 
For butchers who specialize in wild game, this is the busiest week of the year. More than 5,000 hunters have been licensed to shoot bear for six days in the northwest corner of the state. In addition, shotgun hunting season for deer is this week, drawing thousands of hunters. For this reason, several butchers will turn bears back at the door.
"I told everybody I didn't want any bear," said Chick Roche, of V. Roche and Sons butchers in Whitehouse Station. "I'd rather do deer. I can do them quicker and easier and make more money."
With 90 deer in his freezer and 40 more waiting to be processed -- not to mention two bears -- Mr. Person was forced to hang a "closed for deer" sign at the end of his driveway Wednesday. He also had to turn away what at another time of year would be considered a grand prize -- a 551-pound bear.
The bear ended up down the road in Annandale, at the Wenzel Wildlife Studio where Jeff Wenzel, a taxidermist, agreed to skin the animal -- his second bear of the week -- and ultimately turn it into a rug. Mr. Wenzel said he hoped to get in 10 or more bears by week's end. 
While hunters could be eating bear sausage or bear pot roast in the next week or two, it might be some time before they can place their quarry on display. From shooting the bear to laying its skin across the den floor can take up to a year, as the job involves several steps. 
After shooting the bear, the first, and sometimes biggest, challenge is getting it out of the woods. Scott Ritchlin, who caught the second bear on the hunt's opening day, said he began working out a couple of weeks ago to be physically prepared for the hunt. It must have paid off, since he was able to drag his catch out of Wawayanda State Park himself Monday morning. Then again, his bear only weighed 110 pounds. For the 551-pound bear, bagged by John Sami, it was a different story.
"There were four of us and we couldn't lift it two inches off the ground," said Carl Felts, a friend of Mr. Sami who was called out with two other men to help move the animal. The four men ended up sliding the bear on a toboggan, then flipping it into the truck using a plywood plank, a process that took more than two hours, Mr. Felts said.
Before leaving the hunting ground, most hunters field dress the animal. Mr. Person said he won't take an animal that hasn't had its entrails removed. "I tell them, 'you had all the fun pulling the trigger, you can take the innards out.' "
After passing through one of the state's checkpoint stations, the next stop is typically the butcher's shop, where the bear is skinned and any usable meat is cut and packaged. 
The trickiest part in skinning is keeping every inch of the hide intact so the animal can be replicated in its most lifelike form. The inch of fat beneath the skin provides some margin of error, but Mr. Person said he has made a slip or two, causing a weakspot in the hide.
With bears, the hide has far more value than the meat, so Mr. Person makes sure to get a decent chunk of his pay up front -- $25 a foot (with a $100 minimum) for skinning a bear -- rather than waiting for the payout on the meat. The average black bear is five or six feet.
Comparing bear meat to pork, most game connoisseurs agree that the best use for the grease-laden bear is sausage or stewing meat, although a large bear can also produce decent ribs and even bacon. Once the bear is skinned, the hide is returned to the owner, who will likely proceed to the taxidermist. Of the state's 200 taxidermists, about half handle bears, according to Mike Kintner, president of the Garden State Taxidermist Association. Before the bear is mounted, the skin is sent out to a commercial tannery, where the hide is put through a chemical process that preserves it. It is here that the job can get held up for five or six months, Mr. Kintner said, because of a backlog of work at the tanneries. 
The tanned hide is then returned to the taxidermist, where more often than not, hunters are interested in displaying their whole prize, be it stuffed and standing, or a supplicant floor covering.
The hide is mounted on a made-to-order mannequin form, or, in the case of a rug, using a polyurethane form for the head, rug backing and a felt border. Glass eyes and artificial teeth take the place of the real ones. Mounting a full bear costs between $2,000 and $3,000, while a head-andshoulder mount runs around $400 to $500. Bear rugs go for about $125 to $150 a linear foot.
The measure of a good mounting job is how lifelike the bear looks, according to Mr. Kintner, who has won national and international taxidermy competitions. 
Mr. Sami, who shot the bear Mr. Wenzel skinned Wednesday afternoon, said it was not about killing a bear. "It's about being in the outdoors," Mr. Sami said. "The bear's just a beautiful trophy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Person skinning a bear yesterday in his butcher shop in Lebanon, N.J. He described skinning and processing a bear as more of an aggravation than a reward. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Jeff Wenzel, a taxidermist in Annandale, N.J., laying out the skin of what was a 551-pound bear killed during the bear hunt in New Jersey this week. Mr. Wenzel hoped to handle 10 bears by the end of the week. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT HUNTING (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); MAMMALS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); ANIMALS (77%); MEAT STORES (72%) Bears; Hunting and Trapping; Taxidermy

PERSON: Jill P Capuzzo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



302 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 597 words

PERSON: Rudolph A. Peterson 

HEADLINE: Rudolph Peterson, 98, Chief Of Bank of America in 1960's 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Rudolph A. Peterson, who was the chief executive of Bank of America in the 1960's and later ran the United Nations Development Program, died Dec. 2 at his home in Piedmont, Calif., his son-in-law, Stephen Bennett, said yesterday. He was 98.
 Mr. Peterson spent all of his 45 years in business as a lender. He began by making small loans to working people to buy appliances and cars during the Depression and ended up running the biggest bank in the country. 
 He was born in Svenljunga, Sweden, in 1904 and emigrated to California as a child. After he graduated from the University of California at Berkeley, he began a career that took him to Mexico City, Chicago, Honolulu, and eventually, to the corner office in Bank of America's headquarters in San Francisco.
He got his start with the Commercial Credit Corporation, a lending company that sent him to Mexico just before it went off the gold standard and suffered a drastic revaluation of its currency. After he succeeded in renegotiating all of his company's loans there, he was promoted to its headquarters in Chicago. 
He joined Bank of America in 1936 and spent two decades in California before leaving for six years with the Bank of Honolulu.
He was president of the Bank of Honolulu when Bank of America lured him back in 1961, making him vice chairman. The bank named him president and chief executive in 1963, when it had $14 billion in assets and only about 20 foreign branches. When he retired at the end of 1969, its assets had nearly doubled and it had added about 80 branches overseas.
"Rudy Peterson had a vision for the way the world was going," said A. W. Clausen, who succeeded Mr. Peterson at Bank of America. "He had a perception that the world was becoming increasingly interdependent. He was an internationalist first, last and always."
As soon as Mr. Peterson retired, President Nixon put him to work, appointing him chairman of a task force on international development. The Peterson commission recommended that the United States give aid to other countries not on its own but through multinational agencies like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
In 1972, he was appointed administrator of the United Nations Development Program, overseeing $1 billion in aid to developing countries. He held that position for three years.
"Development activities intrigue me with the possibilities for many areas of the world," he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1972. "We can do something about it, and we have the moral responsibility to do it. This is a real opportunity."
About a decade ago, Mr. Peterson pledged $1 million to the Haas School of Business at his alma mater, to sponsor the teaching of ethics, said David Vogel, a professor at Haas. The school used some of the money for a series of lectures on corporate responsibility by business leaders and government officials. The donation also provided seed money for the Center for Responsible Business, which the school created two years ago, Mr. Vogel said. 
"Given his values and his role at the Bank of America, he believed it was important for students to understand the social and ethical responsibilities of being a good corporate citizen," Mr. Vogel said.
Mr. Peterson's first wife, Patricia, died in 1960. He is survived by his second wife, Barbara, whom he married in 1962; a daughter, Linnea Bennett of La Selva Beach, Calif.; a son, R. Price Peterson of Boquete, Panama; three stepdaughters, Lorna and Margaret Lindsay of Pescadero, Calif., and Anne Lindsay of Snohomish, Wash.; and a stepson, Robert Lindsay of Visalia, Calif.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rudolph A. Peterson. (Photo by United Press International, 1970) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%) SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS; 

RICHARD NIXON (50%) Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



303 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco Democrats Survive a Scare 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
The Democratic Party avoided an embarrassing defeat on Tuesday, winning election of a Democratic businessman, Gavin Newsom, as mayor of San Francisco by having played to the party's organizational strengths in a city it has long dominated.
 The 36-year-old Mr. Newsom pushed back a powerful challenge from Matt Gonzalez, a former public defender who, according to unofficial final results, fell fewer than 12,000 votes short of becoming the first mayor of a major American city from the Green Party. Those results showed Mr. Newsom with 118,651 votes to Mr. Gonzalez's 107,030, or 53 percent to 47 percent, in a runoff. 
 "Both sides did well," said David Binder, a San Francisco pollster, "but the money and organization the Newsom campaign had as an advantage is what prevailed."
In the waning days of the race, Mr. Newsom's camp decided to embrace its institutional advantages rather than apologize for them, said his campaign manager, Jim Ross.
That meant ceding some ground to Mr. Gonzalez, particularly among voters who were seeking big changes at City Hall, but also a shoring up of Mr. Newsom's support among mainstream Democrats.
"We made the decision that if we are going to be painted with being the Establishment candidate, we might as well take the advantages of the Establishment," Mr. Ross said. "We've already been painted with that brush to such an extent that you can either run away from it or you can run toward it."
The ultimate demonstration of that strategy was the appearance of former President Bill Clinton at an election-eve rally at Newsom headquarters. As Mr. Gonzalez's campaign was raising money at a "Punks for Matt" concert with the onetime Dead Kennedys singer Jello Biafra, Mr. Clinton was charming hundreds of Newsom volunteers before a bank of television cameras.
Mr. Newsom first set his sights on the mayor's office two years ago, with the encouragement of the incumbent, Willie L. Brown Jr., who must step down because of term limits. He carefully plodded his way toward the finish line, sponsoring popular get-tough ballot initiatives on homelessness and panhandling and, with Mr. Brown's help, picking up powerful ethnic, business and labor endorsements.
About 54 percent of the city's registered voters are Democrats, while barely 3 percent are members of the Green Party. Further, it was only in August that Mr. Gonzalez, a former Democrat, joined a field that already had eight candidates. And according to expenditure estimates of the two finalists and their supporters, he was outspent by Mr. Newsom 10 to 1.
Even so, Mr. Gonzalez, 38, managed to tap into discontent with the city's political elite in an economically sour time, running a defiant and unapologetically radical campaign of the left. In the last mayor's contest, four years ago, Mr. Brown held the progressive candidate to his left, County Supervisor Tom Ammiano, a Democrat, to 39 percent of the vote.
Mr. Gonzalez actually attracted more voters to the polls on Tuesday than did Mr. Newsom, but could not overcome Mr. Newsom's lead in absentee ballots, which favored the Democrat by 65 percent to 35 percent. Had the election been decided only by votes cast on Tuesday, Mr. Gonzalez would have won by 53 percent to 47 percent, according to an analysis by Mr. Binder, the pollster.
"The Democratic Party and other parties," Mr. Gonzalez said in a concession speech, "have to acknowledge that people voted for a candidate outside their party because that candidate represented the values of democracy."
Mr. Gonzalez said the shift would be long-lasting. "There's a certain inevitability to what it is that we are trying to accomplish," he said.
Although the mayor's race is officially nonpartisan, the Democrats were unsettled during the campaign by opinion polls that showed Mr. Gonzalez drawing so many of their voters. But Mr. Brown, beaming on Tuesday night in Mr. Newsom's triumph, played down the Democratic defections. "One vote gives you a mandate in a democracy," he said at the Newsom victory party.
Oddly, though, the Democrats owe at least some of their good fortune to the Republicans, whose own candidate had failed to advance to the runoff. Though the city's Republican Party did not officially endorse Mr. Newsom in his run against Mr. Gonzalez, it worked on his behalf, staffing a phone bank and sending out a mailer that made it clear Mr. Newsom was preferred. The wealthy owner of a wine shop, restaurants and several other businesses, Mr. Newsom is popular in the city's small-business community, which has many Republicans.
Nearly 19,000 Republicans applied for absentee ballots, and nearly 13,000 of them had returned the ballots by Tuesday, said Jim Fuller, a vice chairman of the local party. Further, he said, an informal survey of Republicans, both those casting absentee ballots and those at the polls, indicated that 85 percent voted for Mr. Newsom.
"If it hadn't been for us," Mr. Fuller said, "he wouldn't have won it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After narrowly defeating a Green Party candidate to win the San Francisco mayoral runoff on Tuesday, Gavin Newsom, a 36-year-old businessman, celebrated with supporters, among them his wife, Kimberly, left. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); TERM LIMITS (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); PANHANDLING (60%); HOMELESSNESS (60%) Elections; Mayors; Election Results

ORGANIZATION: Green Party

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%) Gavin Newsom; Matt Gonzalez; Dean E Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



304 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: A Grand Plan in Brooklyn For the Nets' Arena Complex 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The developer Bruce Ratner unveiled his plans yesterday to build a Frank Gehry-designed arena for the Nets basketball team near Downtown Brooklyn. He detailed his ambitious $2.5 billion commercial and residential project at a theatrical presentation attended by the mayor, a former basketball star and a best-selling rapper.
 Whatever political juice and street credibility he gained -- from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the former Nets and Knicks legend Bernard King and the performer Jay-Z -- Mr. Ratner's presentation at Brooklyn Borough Hall was aimed mainly at the owners of the New Jersey Nets, who are selling the two-time Eastern Conference championship franchise. 
 A group led by Mr. Ratner of Forest City Ratner Companies has the highest bid, $275 million. But the sale of the National Basketball Association team has gone through many twists over the last six months, and another round of bidding is in the offing. The news conference was also a response to rivals who questioned whether Mr. Ratner could deliver on his promises.
Showing how pitched the battle will be, Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey upped the ante after the Brooklyn news conference yesterday by saying that his state had secured $150 million to build a rail line to Continental Arena at the Meadowlands, the Nets' current home.
Mr. Ratner has a track record with such projects, having built, among other things, the seven-million-square-foot MetroTech Center complex nearby in Downtown Brooklyn. For the Nets project, he has assembled a group of well-heeled investors with Brooklyn roots, including Vincent Viola, chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange, and Jay-Z. (Forest City Ratner is The New York Times Company's partner in developing the new Times headquarters on Eighth Avenue in Manhattan.)
Speaking of the Brooklyn project, Mr. Ratner said: "We are real. This is going to happen." He added, "If we don't get the team there will not be a project."
Mr. Bloomberg lent City Hall's support to the project, saying, "We're rooting hard" for it to succeed.
Outside the news conference, about two dozen residents distributed cookies in the shape of turkeys, an edible reference to their view of Mr. Ratner's proposal for the arena, office towers and apartment buildings. But the Brooklyn Borough president, Marty Markowitz, said the project would fill the hole left when the Brooklyn Dodgers moved to Los Angeles after the 1957 season, a moment that he said still reduces him to tears.
"Brooklyn is a world-class city, and it deserves a world-class team in a world-class arena designed by a world-class architect," he said. "This plan goes even further, creating thousands of apartments affordable to Brooklynites of every income and producing thousands of jobs."
Mr. Ratner said his effort began after Mr. Markowitz called urging him to buy the Nets and move the team to Brooklyn. The 21-acre project centers onthe Long Island Rail Road yards at the intersection of Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues. Under the proposal, the tracks for the train storage yard would be moved to the east, allowing the developer to build the $435 million, 19,000-seat arena for basketball, topped by a park with a running track that could be converted to an ice rink in the winter.
The arena, which will be linked to the Atlantic Terminal subway and train lines, would be embraced by four tall office towers totaling 2.1 million square feet, with up to 4,500 apartments in buildings to the east.
Rather than walling itself off from the community, Mr. Ratner and Mr. Gehry said, the arena would be sheathed in glass, allowing patrons a view of Brooklyn night life and passers-by a look at the interior.
"This started with basketball, a Brooklyn sport," Mr. Ratner said. "This was always the site. But it became clear it was not economically viable without a real estate component. And Frank Gehry was the perfect architect for this site."
Mr. Gehry, who designed the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, and the Mighty Ducks hockey training facility in Anaheim, Calif., said he had never had an opportunity "to build a neighborhood from scratch in an urban setting."
He said the renderings and models on display yesterday were merely the first steps in the designs. "Don't worry about these funny shapes at this point," Mr. Gehry said. "These are just blocks, and we'll make something out of it."
Even some sports economists who have been critical of stadium and arena projects elsewhere are intrigued by Mr. Ratner's plans.
"It has all the ingredients to be successful," said Prof. Mark S. Rosentraub, a sports economist and the dean of Urban Affairs at Cleveland State University in Ohio. "It's a very attractive market. Add in the kind of housing that's being talked about and the retail opportunities, you have something that could work."
Mr. Ratner said that the project "will be almost exclusively privately financed," although taxes derived from elements of the project will be diverted to help pay for it. The developer also wants the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to turn over some of its land and the state to condemn the rest of it. Only one block, he said, had apartment buildings, with about 100 residents.
Mr. Ratner must also survive a grueling environmental review and community opposition.
Despite the developer's pledge to conduct a public review, Patti Hagan, a member of the Prospect Heights Action Coalition, said she was "appalled by the secrecy surrounding the project." She questioned why the city was intent on giving Mr. Ratner exclusive rights to public property without a review.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in The Arts on Tuesday about Frank Gehry's design for the first phase of the Grand Avenue development project in Los Angeles misstated the location of the proposed Atlantic Yards project that Mr. Gehry is designing in Brooklyn. (The error also appeared in sports articles on Feb. 9 and April 11, in the City section on Jan. 15 and in several articles in 2003, 2004 and 2005.) It is on rail yards and other land in Prospect Heights and on a block in Park Slope; it is not in Downtown Brooklyn, although it is near that neighborhood.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of a proposed new arena in Brooklyn, where the N.B.A.'s Nets could play. (Photo by Forest City Ratner Companies); Bruce Ratner (pg. B1); The architect Frank Gehry at a model of the proposed new arena and complex. The developer Bruce Ratner, to the left of Mr. Gehry, hopes to lure the Nets to Brooklyn. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg offered his support. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (94%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%) Basketball; Relocation of Business; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Stadiums and Arenas; Continental Airlines Arena (East Rutherford, NJ)

COMPANY: RATNER COS (84%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (65%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%) New Jersey Nets

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (65%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (65%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%); JAY-Z (58%) Charles V Bagli; Bruce Ratner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



305 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1354 words

PERSON: Robert L. Bartley 

HEADLINE: Robert L. Bartley, 66, Dies; Led Journal Editorial Page 

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Robert L. Bartley, who led the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal for three decades, championing the supply-side economics of the Reagan era and fashioning a showcase of conservative thought that became required reading for liberals and conservatives alike, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Brooklyn. 
 The cause was complications of cancer, said Brigitte Trafford, a spokeswoman for Dow Jones & Company, which owns The Journal. 
 Writing both unsigned editorials and occasional bylined columns, Mr. Bartley argued repeatedly for tax cuts and a range of other economic incentives, as well as for a powerful national defense, a well-protected Israel and the Supreme Court nominations of such conservatives as Robert Bork and Clarence Thomas. In 1980, Mr. Bartley was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing. 
In a sign of the esteem with which he and his page were held in conservative circles, Mr. Bartley was lauded at a retirement party at the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan in November 2002 by three keynote speakers drawn from the loftiest ranks of the Republican Party: Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state; Jack Kemp, the former vice-presidential nominee, and Theodore B. Olson, the United States solicitor general, who had argued before the Supreme Court on behalf of George W. Bush in the dispute over the 2000 presidential election.
On Dec. 2, as it became clear that his death was near, Mr. Bartley received a phone call at his Brooklyn home from President Bush informing him that he was being given the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The citation said that as "a champion of free markets, individual liberty and the values necessary for a free society," Mr. Bartley had "helped shape the times in which we live."
Mr. Bartley, who held the title editor emeritus at his death and until recently wrote an occasional column, "Thinking Things Over," would most likely not have received such an honor from Mr. Bush's predecessor.
During the Clinton administration, Mr. Bartley turned The Journal's editorial page toward Mr. Clinton with the constant intensity of a white-hot spotlight, criticizing the Whitewater land deal, the president's dalliance with an intern and the ethical pedigree of the White House aides Mr. Clinton had taken with him from Arkansas, including Webster L. Hubbell (an associate attorney general) and Vincent W. Foster (a deputy White House counsel).
A month after The Journal published an editorial in June 1993, under the headline, "Who is Vince Foster?", which criticized Mr. Foster and other administration lawyers from the Rose Law Firm in Little Rock, Mr. Foster's body was found in a northern Virginia park in an apparent suicide. A note found in his briefcase after his death said, among other things, that "the WSJ editors lie without consequence."
Mr. Bartley later wrote: "For my part, I can testify that getting tagged with blame for the Foster suicide powerfully focused my own attention on Whitewater."
For all the issues on which he held forth, Mr. Bartley was perhaps most influential in the area of economics. From the mid-1970's to the early 1980's, Mr. Bartley used his page to give voice to a small cadre of economists and writers, including Arthur B. Laffer, Jude Wanniski and Robert Mundell, who believed that tax cuts could stimulate the economy. 
Those ideas, which were partly hashed out in a series of late-night dinners in Lower Manhattan among a small group of economists that also included Mr. Bartley, later became grouped under the heading of supply-side economics, and formed a cornerstone of the economic policy of the Reagan administration.
"We all stand on the shoulders of someone else," said Dr. Laffer, who taught economics at the University of Chicago and advised both the Nixon and Reagan administrations. "He was a major contributor to the whole process, the whole thinking."
Mr. Bartley wrote a book about that period, "The Seven Fat Years: And How To Do It Again," first published in 1992 by Free Press.
In a new introduction several years later, Mr. Bartley, who had no formal training as an economist, wrote of the 1980's: "We entered the decade in a mood of malaise, engendered chiefly by a combination of inflation and stagflation that could not be cured or even explained by prevailing economic wisdom. That economic issue was resolved with surprising success and speed by a mix of tight monetary policy and incentive-directed tax cuts."
But as with so many positions that Mr. Bartley took, his detractors were many and vocal, with a legion of economists arguing that the effects of supply-side policy on the economy, as executed by the Reagan administration, were greatly exaggerated. The boom of the 1990's, which followed a tax increase by President Clinton that had been opposed by Mr. Bartley's page, provided additional ammunition to supply-side critics.
"I thought that what was written in The Wall Street Journal about supply-side economics was the triumph of faith over observation," said Robert M. Solow, a retired professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
But Professor Solow adds that it says something about Mr. Bartley's desire for intellectual engagement that, at one point in the 1990's, Mr. Bartley offered him the opportunity to be an occasional contributor on The Journal's editorial page.
Professor Solow turned Mr. Bartley down, he said, because he "didn't want to be a token liberal" in an "extremely right-wing club."
Robert LeRoy Bartley was born on Oct. 12, 1937, in Marshall, Minn., and raised in Ames, Iowa. His father, Theodore, of Humboldt, Iowa, who survives him, was a veterinarian. His mother, the former Iva Mae Radach, was a homemaker.
In addition to his father, Mr. Bartley is survived by his wife, Edith Lillie Bartley; three daughters: Elizabeth Bartley of Brooklyn, Susan Bartley of Los Angeles and Katherine Bartley of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Dale Bartley of San Rafael, Calif.; and a sister, Phyllis Sutter of Portland, Oregon.
Mr. Bartley received a bachelor's degree in journalism from Iowa State University and a master's degree in political science from the University of Wisconsin.
He joined The Journal in 1962, serving initially as a staff reporter in the newspaper's bureaus in Chicago and Philadelphia before joining the editorial page staff in 1964. He became editor of the editorial page in 1972 and later was named editor of The Journal, a position in which he oversaw editorials, Op-Ed articles and arts and cultural criticism. He retired last year.
Dorothy Rabinowitz, who was hired by Mr. Bartley more than a decade ago as a media critic and editorial page writer, said yesterday that among the things she would miss most about him was his laugh, which she described as a "cackling, penetrating, roar."
Tension between the editorial and news-gathering sides of a newspaper is hardly unusual, given their contrasting missions. But it was particularly true at The Journal, where beat reporters would sometimes engage Mr. Bartley about how wrong they felt he was, or how hard his editorials were making it for them to be perceived by the outside world as writing objectively.
Ms. Rabinowitz said that a less apparent aspect of his work at The Journal was his advocacy for the advancement of a number of women as writers and editors, including not only herself but also Susan Lee, Amity Shlaes and Melanie Kirkpatrick.
Ms. Rabinowitz won a Pulitzer Prize in 2001 for a series of columns, including several that laid bare the damage done by false accusations of child abuse. It was a line of reporting, she said, that Mr. Bartley had embraced.
At his retirement party, Mr. Bartley gave what he called a valedictory:
"What I think I've learned over three decades," he wrote, "is that in this society, rationality wins out, progress happens, and problems do have solutions. This, I like to think, is what happens when a society incorporates the traditional editorial credo of my newspaper -- free markets and free people.
"In that kind of a society, my three decades as an editor testify, optimism pays."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert L. Bartley, editor of The Wall Street Journal's editorial page, in 1994. Last week, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom. (Photo by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CONSERVATISM (91%); DEATHS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); CANCER (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); ETHICS (68%); SUICIDE (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (72%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (72%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

CLARENCE THOMAS (57%) Jacques Steinberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003 



306 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 2340 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 EVENTS

AFRICAN DIASPORA FILM FESTIVAL 2003. With screenings, discussions and other events through Sunday. Most screenings are at Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, Lower East Side. Screening tickets are $8.50; students and 62+, $6. Panel discussions are planned at Teachers College, Columbia University, Broadway and 116th Street, Morningside Heights; tickets, $6. Panel discussions tonight at 6 and 8 and tomorrow at 2 and 4 p.m. Information: (212) 864-1760; www.nyadff.org.

ANNUAL HOLIDAY POTTERY SALE, West Side Fireside Lounge, Y.M.C.A, 5 West 63rd Street, Manhattan. Pottery, jewelry and sculpture. Today, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Information: (212) 875-6729.

ROCKEFELLER CENTER CHRISTMAS TREE. The annual holiday display, on view daily through Jan. 7.

"NATIVITY: A LIFE STORY," United Palace Theater, Broadway and 175th Street, Washington Heights. A musical about the birth of Jesus, inspired by Langston Hughes's "Black Nativity"; with Stephanie Mills, BeBe Winans, T.C. Carson, B.J. Crosby, and Alyson Williams; an instrumental sextet and three choruses. Tonight at 8 and tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m. Also next Friday at 8 p.m. and Dec. 20 at 3 and 8 p.m. Tickets, $35, $50 and $75. Information: (212) 239-6200.

CRAFTS NEW YORK, Columbia University, Alfred Lerner Hall, Broadway and 114th Street, Morningside Heights. Blown glass, jewelry, wood, ceramics and wearable art by 75 artisans. Today, 3 to 8 p.m.; tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission, $6. Information: (800) 649-0279.

SORRENTO CHEESE FESTIVAL, Mulberry Street between Broome and Canal Streets, Little Italy. Tonight at 6:30: Frank Sinatra birthday celebration, with Bill Boggs, the television personality, as host; tomorrow at 2 p.m., a parade. Through Dec. 21. Free admission. Information: (212) 764-6331.

P.S. 154 WINTER FESTIVAL, 1625 11th Avenue, at Windsor Place, Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn. With games, crafts, a silent auction and raffle. Tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Information: (718) 330-9333.

HANUKKAH ISRAELI GIFT FAIR, Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51st Street, between Second and Third Avenues, Manhattan. Jewelry, apparel, Judaica, crafts, food, cosmetics and toys. Tomorrow, 8 to 11 p.m.; Sunday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Information: (212) 593-3300.

HANUKKAH SALE, ART TALK AND SYNAGOGUE TOUR, Eldridge Street Synagogue, 12 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side. With books, music and Judaica. Sunday, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Also, from 12:30 to 1 p.m., an art talk: "Nephesh Explained," by Donna Ruff, a visual artist. From 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., one-hour tours of the synagogue. Information: (212) 219-0903.

LIEDERKRANZ FOUNDATION, 6 East 87th Street, Manhattan. "Master Sculptor and Master Singer," a lecture on Hector Berlioz and "Benvenuto Cellini," by Hugh McDonald, a professor of musicology at Washington University. Tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. Suggested donation, $10. Information: (212) 749-4561.

RIVERSIDE CHURCH WEEKDAY SCHOOL ANNUAL HOLIDAY BAZAAR, Riverside Church, Assembly Hall, Claremont Avenue between 120th and 122nd Streets, Morningside Heights. Crafts, jewelry, activities for children and food. Tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Admission, $3; children, $1; children under 2, free. Information: (212) 870-6743.

CERAMIC TILE NEW YORK CITY 2003, Children's Aid Society, 219 Sullivan Street, West Village. Exhibition and sale featuring works by 20 tilemakers. Tomorrow and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission, $3; 60+, $2; children under 12, free. Information: (212) 226-5249.

NEIGHBORHOOD SCHOOL HOLIDAY FAIR, 121 East Third Street, East Village. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Information: (646) 654-1879.

WATSON ADVENTURES. Tomorrow, 5:30 to 8 p.m., "Met Madness Scavenger Hunt," at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; fee, $30. Sunday, 1:30 to 3:30 p.m., "Museum of Natural Hysteria Hunt for Families" leads families through the Hall of Ocean Life at the American Museum of Natural History; fee, $22. Museum admission is included. Reservations and meeting places: (212) 726-1529.

BROOKLYN PUBLIC LIBRARY, Grand Army Plaza, at Prospect Park. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., a reading by Jonathan Safran Foer, author of "Everything Is Illuminated"; part of the Brooklyn Writers for Brooklyn Readers series. Sunday at 2 p.m., a reading by Arkady Arkanov, author of "Don't Give a 'Soviet' Continental!"; part of a Russian Authors series. "World Religions of Brooklyn: Photographs of Brooklyn's Varied Spiritual Traditions," more than 50 works by Martha Cooper, Marilyn Nance, Larry Racioppo, Joseph Rodriguez, Mel Rosenthal, Yale Strom and Jonathan Torgovnik; through Dec. 31. Free. Information: (718) 230-2100.

FETES DE NOEL, Bryant Park, Avenue of the Americas at 42nd Street. A holiday display with booths selling merchandise and offering information about cultural institutions. Through Dec. 24, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. (until 4 p.m. on Christmas Eve). Sponsored by the City of New York Parks and Recreation Department and the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation.

GRAND CENTRAL HOLIDAY TRAIN SHOW, New York Transit Museum Gallery Annex at Grand Central Terminal. Includes a model of the terminal. Free. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Through Jan. 19. Information: (212) 878-0106

UNION SQUARE HOLIDAY MARKET, southern end of Union Square Park, intersection of 14th Street, Broadway and Park Avenue South. With more than 100 exhibitors. Through Christmas Eve. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.

ATTRACTIONS
Museums and Sites

HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town. Tomorrow and Sunday from 5 to 8:30 p.m., candelight tours followed by a reception. Reservations necessary; (718) 351-1611, Ext. 280. Admission, $25; members, $20.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. The museum collects, preserves and presents material related to the city's history. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., "Central Park in Winter Walking Tour" meets at the gates of the conservatory garden; at 3 p.m., caroling group will meet on the steps of the museum and outside the nearby Museo del Barrio, Fifth Avenue at 104th Street; song sheets will be provided. Sunday at 12:30 p.m., "Harbor Conservatory Concert," classical music in the museum's auditorium, performed by students of the Harbor Conservatory for the Performing Arts. Exhibitions: "Harlem Lost and Found," the architectural history of the area from pre-Revolutionary years to World War I, with photographs, furniture and other items from the homes of noted residents, including Alexander Hamilton and Madame C. J. Walker; through Jan. 4. "Glass and Glamour: Steuben's Modern Moment, 1930-1960" captures a pivotal moment in 20th-century design when Steuben Glass embraced the vocabulary of modernism and linked its image to the glamour of New York City; through April. "Big and Green: Toward Sustainable Architecture in the 21st Century" explores large-scale development that is simultaneously energy efficient, healthful for its inhabitants and economically viable. Through Jan. 19. Hours: Tuesdays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. for registered groups only; Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: $7; 62+, students and children, $4; families, $12. Information: (212) 534-1672.

RECREATION

"N.Y.R.R. JOE KLEINERMAN 10K," Central Park. Sunday at 9:30 a.m. Begins and ends on the 102nd Street Transverse. Additional contributions are to be collected at race check-in. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration fee, $20, members, $14; those 18 and younger and 62+, $10. Race-day registration, $30; members, $20; those 18 and younger and 62+, $12. Donations will also be accepted for a scholarship fund in memory of Joe Kleinerman, a founder of the New York Road Runners Club, who died last month at 91. Information: (212) 860-4455.

WALKING TOURS

FORT GREENE, CLINTON HILL AND BROOKLYN HEIGHTS, a three-hour walking tour of downtown Brooklyn focusing on the historic sites and ethnic communities of three distinct neighborhoods. Today, tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m., meeting at the Marriott Hotel Brooklyn, 333 Adams Street. Fee, $25. Sponsored by Metro Tour Service. Information: (718) 789-0430.

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS. Today at 1 p.m., "Immigrant New York," a multiethnic walk through the Jewish East Side, Chinatown, Little Italy and what used to be called Little Germany, Little Ireland and Little Africa, meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Chambers Street, at City Hall Park. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., "Greenwich Village," featuring the homes of Aaron Burr, Edith Wharton, and E. E. Cummings, meeting at the Washington Arch. Fee for each tour, $12; students and 63+, $10. Information: (212) 439-1090.

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING. Tours tomorrow: at 12:15 p.m., "Meatpacking District Meander," through far West14th Street, including stops at a new art gallery, a pub and a trendy restaurant, meeting on the northwest corner of 14th Street and Ninth Avenue; at 2 p.m., "Hell's Kitchen Hike," west side of Midtown Manhattan now called Clinton, with stops at the Actors Studio and "Restaurant Row," meeting on the northwest corner of 57th Street and Eighth Avenue. Fee for each, $5. Information: (212) 265-2663.

URBAN TRAIL CONFERENCE. Tomorrow at 12:30 p.m., a four-to-five-mile walk through Flushing, Queens, meeting in front of the Old Navy store on Roosevelt Avenue, off Main Street; fee, $3; information, (212) 924-7486. Sunday, a three-mile walk through the New York Botanical Garden, meeting at 11 a.m. at the information booth in the concourse of Grand Central Terminal; fee, $3, train fare additional; information: (212) 533-9457.

PARLOR JAZZ JAM SESSION IN HARLEM, sponsored by Harlem, Your Way! A tour of historic and contemporary jazz clubs, ending with a concert in a private residence. Meets Sunday at 2:30 p.m. at 129 West 130th Street. Fee, $55. Reservations: (212) 690-1687.

"THE GANGS OF NEW YORK," a tour through a Lower Manhattan neighborhood that was once a 19th-century slum. Meets tomorrow and Sunday at 1:30 p.m. inside Blimpie's Restaurant, 38 Park Row, between Spruce and Beekman Streets, across from City Hall Park. Fee: $15. Sponsored by Dr. Phil's New York Walks and Talks. Information: (888) 377-4455.

GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL. Several tours are planned this weekend. Tomorrow at 11 a.m., an architectural tour sponsored by Sunflower Tours, will be led by an architectural historian, meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the main level at the station's information booth; tickets, $20; information: (718) 884-0132. Also tomorrow at 5:30 p.m., "Splendid Grand Central Terminal" visits sites like the former apartment of financier John W. Campbell and the former location of a newsreel theater, meeting on the northeast corner of 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue; sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring; fee, $5; information: (212) 265-2663.

I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS. Tomorrow and Sunday at 10:30 a.m., "The Park and Its People: Central Park," covering Bethesda Terrace, the Bow Bridge, the Horses Fountain and Strawberry Fields, meeting in front of the General Sherman Statue, Fifth Avenue and 59th Street. Sunday at 1:30 p.m., "SoHo: The Artists Vision," a walk past art galleries and boutiques as well as historic homes, meeting on the southeast corner of Houston Street and Broadway. Fee for each, $12. Information: (732) 270-5559.

MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY. Tomorrow at 11 a.m., "Sunset Park, Brooklyn: The Old Neighborhood" explores New York's largest National Register Historic District, meeting in Brooklyn on the northeast corner of 43rd Street and Fourth Avenue. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., "About the Bowery," a tour through a neighborhood that was once an Indian trail and a post road, as well as a meatpacking and theater center, meeting in front of Dim Sum Go Go, on the corner of East Broadway at Chatham Square. Fees for each, $15; members, $12. Information: (212) 439-1049.

STREET SMARTS, N.Y. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., "Christmas in Old Chelsea," a walking tour through the neighborhood that was once the home of Clement Clarke Moore, author of "A Visit From St. Nicholas," meeting in front of the Flatiron Building, on the corner of Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street. Sunday at 2 p.m., "A Village Christmas," with an emphasis on Christmas lore and customs, meeting at the Washington Arch. Fee for each, $10. Information: www.streetsmartsny.com or (212) 969-8262.

"JEWISH HARLEM," a tour of the Mount Morris district that stops at synagogues, row houses and classic theaters, meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. in front of the Lenox Lounge, 288 Lenox Avenue, between 124th and 125th Streets; Fee, $25. Sponsored by Harlem Tours. Information, (212) 369-4241.

"MANHATTAN MOVIE MEMORIES" visits more than 20 locations connected to films shot in New York, including "The Seven Year Itch," on Sunday at 1:15 p.m. Sponsored by Gotham Walk. Fee, $10. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 629-1886.

"MIDTOWN ARCHITECTURAL WALKING TOUR," meeting at 300 Park Avenue, between 49th and 50th Streets, on Sunday at 2 p.m. Fee, $10. Sponsored by New York City Cultural Walking Tours. Information: (212) 979-2388.

NOSHWALKS. Stops at candy stores, markets, bakeries and specialty shops along the Lower East Side and in Chinatown. Meets Sunday at 11 a.m. at First Park, northwest corner of East Houston Street and First Avenue. Fee, $18. Reservations: (212) 222-2243.

GRAMERCY PARK, a look at the history of the Manhattan neighborhood, meeting Sunday at 1:30 p.m. in front of the Gramercy Park Hotel, Lexington Avenue and 21st Street. Sponsored by Bowery and Canal Walking Tours. Fee, $12, $8 for students and 65+. Information: (212) 979-8013.

"RADICAL GREENWICH VILLAGE II WALKING TOUR," a walk through the site of the draft riots of 1863 as well as the center of a folk music movement led by Woody Guthrie, meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. in front of Village Cigars, Seventh Avenue South and Christopher Street. Fee, $10. Sponsored by Radical Walking Tours. Information: (718) 492-0069.

GRAPHIC: Photo: EVENTS -- Rockefeller Center Christmas tree is a beacon of the season. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); HANUKKAH (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); JEWELRY (75%); MUSIC (72%); AUCTIONS (70%); COSMETICS (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



307 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Rebels Who Saw the World As Being Too Full of Objects

BYLINE:  By KEN JOHNSON 

 BODY:
Superstudio was the name not of a 60's rock band but of a group of five young architects based in Florence, Italy, who joined together in 1966 to practice "radical architecture," a trend that bloomed internationally in the decade of youthful rebellion. Ant Farm in the United States, Archigram in England, and in Italy, where the movement found particularly fertile ground, Gruppo 9999 and Archizoom: these and other collectives drew variously on Dada, Pop Art, hippie culture, science fiction and utopian traditions in the interest of shaking up, if not totally razing, established architectural theories and practices. Few actual buildings were realized, but the ideas generated about the politics, economics and environmental impact of architecture still reverberate.
 Now Superstudio is the subject of an exhibition called "Life Without Objects" that is distributed among three New York galleries: Pratt Manhattan Gallery, Artists Space and Storefront for Art and Architecture. Organized by Peter Lang, a professor at Texas A&M University, and William Menking, a professor at Pratt Institute, it presents a nearly indigestible quantity of works on paper: drawings, plans, posters, prints, storyboards and photographic collages. It also includes films, a slide show and a part sculptural, part architectural installation. 
 The visual dimension of Superstudio's enterprise has not worn well. The group's ideas had their most potent visual expression in futuristic collages that must have seemed trippy in their time but look irretrievably dated today. Extended into tediously portentous films, two of which are being shown at Artists Space, the Superstudio vision starts to look overbearingly grandiose. It's when you read the exhibition's informative catalog that the group's essentially intellectual adventure most fully and interestingly emerges.
Superstudio's founders, Adolfo Natalini and Cristiano Toraldo di Francia, and its subsequent members, Gian Piero Frassinelli, Alessandro Magris, Roberto Magris and briefly Alessandro Poli -- all former University of Florence architecture students -- started with the idea that the world needed a more rational approach to object making. They designed lamps and furniture, and their series of minimalist tables and chairs covered with a gridded, black-on-white laminate is still in production. At Pratt an installation of grid-covered geometric units called "Histograms" -- an elemental vocabulary from which to construct objects and buildings -- resembles a Sol LeWitt installation.
Superstudio quickly progressed, however, to the belief that a world damaged and corrupted by consumerism needed not more and more various objects but fewer, ideally none at all. That led to the group's most memorable idea, the Continuous Monument. It was envisioned and illustrated in collages as a gridded, rectilinear volume that could be infinitely extended into gleaming, globe-traversing walls, bridges and planar surfaces, becoming a universally uniform environment that would penetrate everywhere, both the natural and the built world.
Obviously impossibleto achieve in reality, the Continuous Monument was an ambiguous satirical idea. Ostensibly it was a utopian program to cleanse the world of its pollution by unnecessary objects and free people from the imperatives of consumerism and inequities of ownership. Architecture would become an empty stage whereupon people could devote their energies to living and relating to one another in more humane ways.
But the Continuous Monument is more convincingly read as a nightmare, a terrifying extension of modern, ultra-efficient systems of standardization and control. It's a coruscating spoof on the impulses of Modernist visionaries like Le Corbusier and Antonio Sant'Elia to create totally integrated metropolises.
"Twelve Ideal Cities" was another mordantly fantastic approach to dystopia. More verbal than visual, its long text, illustrated by schematic pictures and collages, was first published in AD Magazine. In 1972 it was presented as a slide show, with transistor radios broadcasting descriptions of a dozen cities of the future. The Storefront for Art and Architecture has recreated that show, including radios for individuals to hold and listen to.
Each of the ideal cities exemplifies urban design advanced to the point of madness. New York of Brains is a giant cube inhabited by more than 10 million conscious human brains, each in its own irrigated cell. In "2,000 Ton City" anyone who has improper thoughts is crushed by the 2,000-ton ceiling of his personal cubical. "City of Splendid Houses" describes a world in which people are committed to the all-consuming project of superficially beautifying their structurally identical high-rise homes.
In the face of all this Nietzschean nihilism, you might ask, did Superstudio have anything more positive to offer? It appears the group may have been asking itself the same thing in 1973. 
That year it turned away from its critique of Modernism to investigate "Extra-Urban Material Culture": that is, the tools and dwellings of rural people still living in centuries-old ways. Whatever value the quasi-anthropological diagrams, lists and photographs that came out of the project might have had for thinking about modern architecture, they have none of the imaginative verve of earlier projects, and it is easy to see why Superstudio had largely gone out of business as a collaborative enterprise by 1978. (Members took up university teaching positions and pursued their own architectural practices, and the group officially disbanded in 1986.)
Today the questions that Superstudio and other radical collectives of the 60's raised about life and architecture remain urgently relevant. They are wired into the thinking of many practicing architects. (See Rem Koolhaas.) Nowhere is that more vitally evident than in the discussions and debates swirling around plans for the World Trade Center site. It's too bad the group is no longer in business; it would surely have provocative things to say about that process.

"Superstudio: Life Without Objects" is at Artists Space, 38 Greene Street, SoHo, through Dec. 19, and at Pratt Manhattan Gallery, 144 West 14th Street, Greenwich Village, and Storefront for Art and Architecture, 97 Kenmare Street, Little Italy, through Jan. 31. Information: (212) 647-7778.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Histograms," an installation at the Pratt Manhattan Gallery. (Photo by Nick Battis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); POP & ROCK (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); TRENDS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%) ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: JOHNSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



308 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Away at College, but Not Quite Away From Home

BYLINE:  By LISA KALIS 

 BODY:
IN July, Frank and Sharon Davis bought a $186,000 three-bedroom house in Bellingham, Wash., with hardwood floors, a big deck and a tree-lined backyard. "I could move there in a heartbeat," said Ms. Davis, a wedding consultant in Yakima, Wash. But it's not for her. It's for her 20-year-old twins, Dachelle and Robbie, sophomores at Western Washington University. 
 So long, dorm room. These days, a growing number of parents around the country are buying property for their college-age children to live in. Real estate agents report that sales to parents of students are up as much as 25 percent over the last two years in college towns like Amherst, Mass.; Fort Collins, Colo.; and Ashland, Ore. And in many cases these are not basic student-level apartments but entire houses, high-end condos, even vacation properties for the whole family to share after Junior graduates. "We've seen a lot more parents in the last couple of years, probably because the stock market is not so good and interest rates are so low," said Amy Hudson, a real estate broker in Blacksburg, Va., home of Virginia Tech university. 
 Parents and brokers say that with home prices rising nationally by 6 percent a year over the last five years, buying in a college town can be a good investment -- not to mention that renting out an extra room to another student can help cover the monthly expenses. And in many cases, it's cheaper than shelling out for the dorms: while students living on private college campuses pay an average $7,144 a year for room and board, those who live off campus (but not with their parents) average $668 less -- a gap that's been widening over the years. 
Although no one tracks the number of campus-area sales, over all the number of second-home purchases identified as investments rose to 37 percent from 20 percent from 1999 to 2002, according to the National Association of Realtors. College-area real estate can be a particularly good value thanks to the relatively stable employment and economy that schools offer, said David Givens, an analyst with Economy.com. And many college towns are also popular with retirees attracted to the cultural life a university can offer.
Not surprisingly, many kids like the new off-campus housing. "There's really no comparison," said Dachelle Davis, who lived in dorms last year. "Living in a house is so much better." One big plus, she said, is the kitchen: "You don't have to worry about all the extra calories of cafeteria food."
Maurice Grant wasn't looking for anything too fancy when his daughter Ravonne, then a student at the University of North Carolina, wanted to move off campus two years ago. He knew that the Chapel Hill market was strong and agreed to buy her a place. After a few hours of looking at places with an agent, they bought a two-bedroom town house three miles from campus, then rented out the second bedroom. With his daughter now in graduate school elsewhere, Mr. Grant sold the property this year for $105,000, making a 17 percent profit.
A ND Mike and Linda Dalby's son, Marcel, a junior at Texas State University, keeps his $42,000 one-bedroom condo in San Marcos so neat that his parents actually stay with him when they visit. Of course, said Ms. Dalby, a secretary in Duncanville, Tex., "I threatened him with his life" to make him take care of it.
It is not always that easy. Maintaining a house is much more demanding than taking care of a dorm room, as Barbara Rice found. In 2001, Ms. Rice and her husband, David, paid $620,000 for a 50-year-old ranch-style house, seven blocks from the ocean, during their daughter Jocelyn's freshman year at the University of California at Santa Cruz. But the young woman was unprepared for the house's old wiring and plumbing. "A few times she called and said, 'I can't deal with this right now.' We'd have to stop everything and go over," said Ms. Rice, a volunteer tutor in Palo Alto, Calif., 40 miles away. Once, a water pipe burst and flooded the master bedroom. "We didn't think through how much we'd have to come in and fix things."
A bigger unexpected turn: This year, their daughter transferred to Smith College in Northampton, Mass. The Rices decided against being landlords and are selling the three-bedroom house. "We're hoping to break even," Ms. Rice said. "We didn't expect to be selling so soon." 
But, of course, even students on the most leisurely academic track end up finishing school (or dropping out), leaving parents with an empty second nest. And in many cases, it's in a spot that may not have been at the top of their vacation-home list. Still, said Jennifer Hartsell, a real estate broker in Bozeman, Mont., home of Montana State University, "most parents in my experience end up keeping them."
"They come out here and enjoy it so much," she said. "They use it as a recreational second home or keep it as an investment property."
Indeed, Mathew Evans's daughter graduated from the University of California at San Diego two years ago, but he and his wife, Carol, are holding on to the two-bedroom condo that they bought for her in Del Mar in 1999. It is in a gated residential complex three miles from campus and a mile from the beach. "She had a great lifestyle," said Mr. Evans, a lawyer in Fair Oaks, Calif. For now they have it rented out, but they plan to use it themselves eventually. "It's a wonderful place to live and visit," he said. 
Still, not every 20-year-old living on his own for the first time can rise to the demands of home ownership. And the bigger the place, the more room there is for that killer kegger every Friday night. Another family (who declined to be named because, the father said, "it was a disaster") bought a five-bedroom house in the mid-1990's for their son, then a junior at Southern Oregon University in Ashland. (Similar properties now start around $450,000.) But the house quickly turned into the "party capital of the world," the father said. The next-door neighbor ended up calling the police regularly, and students living in the house punched holes in the doors and put a $1,500 rip in the lining of the pool. 
Their son was still living in the place after graduation when his parents decided to put it on the market. After five months and no offers -- "there were kids hanging around smoking dope," the father said -- they kicked everyone out, including their son, and spent more than $20,000 redoing the place. They recently sold the house, and though they more than made their money back, "it wasn't worth the grief," he said. 
Mr. Grant said that his daughter's biggest problem was interviewing and picking roommates; she ended up with four over a two-year period. But in the end, he found that home ownership can be a good education in itself. He said that his daughter paid the utility bills and compared estimates from contractors for repairs. "She's in the medical field, and business is not one of her fortes," said Mr. Grant, a securities broker in Charlotte, N.C. "She played landlord and made sure the property was kept up. She's much better off two years later." She is now in graduate school for hospital administration and talks of opening her own clinic.

IF YOU'RE LOOKING
Want to Get a Mortgage With That Diploma?

MORE parents are thinking big when it comes to buying their children a place to live during college. "The stereotype of student housing has been blown out of the water," said Kurt Swanson, a real estate agent in Bellingham, Wash. "Parents are buying nicer and bigger." Tony Miller, a broker, said that while parents of students at the University of Florida in Gainesville had traditionally bought low-priced condos, more were lately choosing houses over $200,000. His office sells to about 100 students and their families a year. Here is a sample of potential dorm alternatives on the market nationwide:

Durango, Colo.
3-bedroom house, $254,900
This 1,770-square-foot house is a mile and a half from Fort Lewis College and a short walk to a popular hiking trail. It has two bathrooms and a fireplace. It is currently leased through August. Agent: Rick Rowland, the Wells Group, (970) 259-6680; www.wellsgroupdurango.com.

Bellingham, Wash.
3-bedroom house, $199,900
Two miles from Western Washington University, this 1,250-square-foot home features two skylights, an ornate gas fireplace in the family room and a backyard with a brick patio. There is also an office in the attached garage. Agent: Sandra Wiggins, Windermere Real Estate, (360) 734-7500; www.windermere.com.

Burlington, Vt.
2-bedroom condo, $123,900
This ground-floor unit, with 820 square feet, is half a mile from the University of Vermont and near four other colleges. The apartment has one bathroom and a balcony. There is a student-friendly perk: a new washer and dryer. The condominium complex has an outdoor pool. Agent: William Desautels, RE/Max North Professionals, (802) 655-9100; www.condoguy.com.

Information on properties was provided by the listing companies.

GRAPHIC: Photos: READY FOR COMPANY -- Marcel Dalby's parents stay in his condo when they visit him at Texas State University in San Marcos. (Photo by Bryce Harper for The New York Times); OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING -- Available properties near colleges include these, from left, in Durango, Colo.; Bellingham, Wash.; and Burlington, Vt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); CHILDREN (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) HOUSING; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

ORGANIZATION: VIRGINIA TECH UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: KALIS, LISA

GEOGRAPHIC: YAKIMA, WA, USA (92%); DURANGO, CO, USA (79%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (59%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



309 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Cutting James Baker's Ties 

 BODY:
Last week, the White House summoned James Baker III, the Bush family's persuader of last resort, back to public service. His new portfolio is the diplomatically ticklish and economically crucial problem of restructuring Iraq's currently unpayable official debts. As a former secretary of both the State and Treasury Departments and a public and private Middle East deal maker, he is in many ways a supremely qualified choice. Yet as it stands right now, Mr. Baker is far too tangled in a matrix of lucrative private business relationships that leave him looking like a potentially interested party in any debt-restructuring formula. The obvious solution is for him to sever his ties to all firms doing work directly or indirectly related to Iraq. 
 Mr. Baker is senior counselor to the Carlyle Group, a global investment company that has done business with the Saudi royal family. He is also a partner in Baker Botts, a Houston law firm whose client list includes Halliburton. Baker Botts has an office in Riyadh and a strategic alliance with another firm in the United Arab Emirates, and it deploys Mr. Baker's name and past government service on its Web site to solicit Middle East business. It is inappropriate for Mr. Baker to remain attached to these businesses, whose clients and potential future clients could be affected by the decisions made about Iraq's official debt. 
 Iraq's overall debt is estimated at something over $100 billion, with another $100 billion or so owed in reparations. Just servicing that debt, without paying back any principal, looks beyond the means of a country whose oil revenues amounted to only $13 billion in the last full year before the war.
Finding a way to persuade creditor nations like France, Russia and the Persian Gulf Arab states to forgive part of Iraq's debt and restructure the rest is critical to the administration's foreign policy. It is no wonder the president turned to an experienced hand like Mr. Baker, whose legal maneuvering in Florida did so much to secure his hold on the White House in 2000. Yet before any of this can happen, Mr. Baker must show that he will be free of any private business entanglements that could raise legitimate questions about his recommendations. If the administration needs a political reason for doing the right thing, it need only look at the deep suspicion raised about the Iraqi construction contracts doled out to Halliburton, a company that was run by Dick Cheney before he became vice president.
Mr. Baker has agreed to forgo earnings from clients with obvious connections to Iraqi debts, a process that Baker Botts attorneys would supervise for the law firm and that the White House would oversee for the Carlyle Group. That is not good enough. Businesses like Carlyle and Baker Botts make their living by flaunting their connections to the politically powerful. To perform honorably in his new public job, Mr. Baker must give up these two private ones. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (88%); LAWYERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); TERRORISM (59%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); WEB SITES (51%) EDITORIALS; CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: BAKER BOTTS LLP (92%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%) BAKER, JAMES A III 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (68%) IRAQ (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); GULF STATES (78%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



310 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Fed Minutes Suggest Rates Could Stay Low Until 2005 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers concluded at their October meeting that inflation could remain low until 2005 and that they should not raise interest rates until they saw concrete signs of rising prices, according to minutes of the meeting released on Thursday.
 The minutes of the Oct. 28 meeting galvanized bond market investors because they suggested that the Fed might wait until late next year or even early 2005 before it tightened monetary policy. 
 That would be good news for President Bush, because it would keep interest rates at their current levels -- the lowest in more than four decades -- until after the elections next November.
Investors rarely react to the minutes of Fed meetings because most of the information is old, but they responded immediately to the release on Thursday. Yields on 10-year Treasury bonds dropped to 4.23 percent from 4.32 percent on Wednesday, with most of that decline coming moments after the minutes became public. 
The reaction may have reflected confusion among investors about the Fed's intentions. On Tuesday, the Federal Open Market Committee sent investors scurrying with an unusually ambiguous statement hinting at continued low rates and a gradual tightening of policy next year.
That statement sent Treasury bond yields up by almost the same amount they dropped on Thursday, a gyration that mirrored the conflicting interpretations among analysts about Fed intentions.
According to the minutes released on Thursday, members of the Fed's policy-making committee were convinced in late October that inflation would remain quite low "for the next year or two" and that the "slack" in both the job market and in factory use would not disappear until "the latter part of 2005 of even later."
Equally important, Fed officials emphasized at the October meeting that they did not feel a need to start tightening policy until inflation began to make itself felt.
In the past, the Fed has started to raise interest rates well before inflation actually becomes apparent, hoping to act pre-emptively.
But Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said in a speech last month that the economic recovery this year was different from those over the last several decades in that it was taking place without any hint of rising prices.
The economy surged at an annual rate of 8.2 percent in the third quarter of this year, the fastest rate in two decades, and most forecasters predict it will climb at a robust rate of nearly 4 percent next year. Much of that growth has been supported by consumer spending, and the Commerce Department reported on Thursday that retail sales rose by a greater-than-expected 0.9 percent in November.
But a separate report from the Labor Department said that initial claims for jobless benefits rose by 13,000 last week, to 378,000, an unexpected increase.
Job creation has been much slower than in past recoveries and joblessness remains at 5.9 percent. Factories, meanwhile, are still running at less than 75 percent of capacity. 
According to the October minutes, members of the policy-making committee argued that the rapid rise in productivity over the last year would curb job creation and might even drive inflation lower than it already was.
"Some members emphasized that the outlook for inflation was clouded by the high degree of uncertainty about productivity," according to the minutes. 
"The growth in productivity could remain higher than had earlier been anticipated, damping employment, labor costs and price pressures."
The central bank has already pushed the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks down to just 1 percent. That is the lowest level in 45 years, and most economists consider it impossible to maintain once the economy regains its footing.
Based on prices of federal funds futures, which allow investors to bet on the direction of Fed policy, money managers have been assuming that rates will climb by about one-quarter of a percentage point by next May or June. But after the release of the October minutes, investors reduced the odds of that happening from near-certainty to about 64 percent.
"People are re-evaluating their idea of what it would take to get the Fed to tighten," said William C. Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, who has argued for some time now that the Fed will not raise rates until early 2005.
Mr. Dudley said investors had failed to appreciate Mr. Greenspan's basic shift in philosophy, from trying to act pre-emptively, or in advance of inflationary pressures, to reactively, in response to concrete signs of trouble.
Alan S. Blinder, professor of economics at Princeton University and a former Fed vice chairman, said he had not ruled out the possibility of a rate increase by next May.
But Mr. Blinder said the Fed was unlikely to face a real inflation threat if it waited longer.
"If anything, inflation is now too low for the Fed's taste," Mr. Blinder said. "Even if inflation inched up a little bit, that would not be too distressing."
The projected 4 percent economic growth for 2004 might not be enough to ignite inflationary pressures, because productivity has been climbing at more than 5 percent a year. If productivity continues to climb at that pace, the economy could expand by 4 percent and still not have a meaningful drop in unemployment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); SALES FIGURES (73%); JOB CREATION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



311 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dow Closes Above 10,000 for First Time in 18 Months

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average closed above 10,000 yesterday for the first time in more than 18 months, adding its own ratification to this year's economic rebound.
 The Dow, which briefly pierced the 10,000 barrier in trading on Tuesday, rose 86.30 points yesterday, to 10,008.16, a high for the year. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also reached a high, while the Nasdaq composite index is crawling back toward 2,000. 
 The highs for two of three main market gauges underline how much the stock market has come back since this rally began in March, before the rebound of the economy was confirmed by data this fall. 
It has been a long haul for the market and investors. Stocks fell the previous three years, although the recession ended in November 2001. But the market is doing what it usually does in the third year of a presidential term -- having its best performance. The Dow is up 20 percent for the year; the Nasdaq, 45 percent; and the S.&P. 500, 22 percent. 
Many investors, though, seem cautious about the outlook, one reason that the Dow struggled to get through 10,000 for six weeks. 
And there is important economic data due today, including a report on consumer confidence, that could, if disappointing, push the Dow back below 10,000 for the 19th time since the level was first breached on May 29, 1999. 
Because this year's performance has been so strong, analysts are also debating whether the stock market can do as well next year. 
"The direction of what happened makes sense," said Robert W. Smith, a portfolio manager in the equity division of T. Rowe Price Associates, the mutual fund company. "The magnitude blows me away."
While the economic rebound is encouraging and corporate profits are rising, Mr. Smith is worried that the market might be ahead of itself, counting on even better economic and profit growth. But William E. Rhodes, chief investment strategist of Rhodes Analytics in Boston, is more bullish. "The real risk is not that the market goes down in the near term," he said. "The real risk is that the market just goes up."
But he agreed that many analysts and investors do not believe this. "I think bullishness is a mile wide and an inch deep," he said. Mr. Smith said that the market was "really being driven by speculation."
"It shows it is still a market of traders," he said, "not a market of investors."
Still, the new level for the Dow comes at a time when the economy's signposts all seem to be pointing in the same direction at the same time, a confluence of positive news that has not been seen for some time.
Retail sales jumped 0.9 percent last month, the government reported yesterday, showing that consumers are continuing to spend. In November, growth in the manufacturing sector, which was the hardest hit during and after the recession, surged to its highest level in two decades. The economy grew at a stunning 8.2 percent annual rate in the third quarter and appears to be continuing at a steady 4 percent pace this quarter.
Job growth has finally begun to pick up, with an average of 82,000 jobs created a month since August. Interest rates are still low by historic standards, as is inflation. And corporate profits are almost back to their peak in 2000, when the three-year market decline began.
James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management, said that the positive economic signals might finally be changing the debate in the stock market.
"Dow 10,000 had looked too far, too fast," he said. "Maybe we have marked enough time now that peoples' expectations have caught up and the debate has changed from when will we recover to how strong and how long."
But this market is still vastly different from the one when the Dow first crossed 10,000, at the height of the technology bubble in the late 1990's. Among the stocks that led the Dow back to 10,000 were three industrial stocks, the kind that were out of favor back then: 3M is up 128 percent since the Dow first crossed 10,000; Alcoa is up 66 percent; and Caterpillar is up 65 percent. The worst performer is a telecommunications company, AT&T, down 77 percent.
The biggest threat to the market right now, some analysts say, is another terrorist attack. Another worry is the dollar, which has been falling against most of the world's currencies this year, including a 13.9 percent fall against the euro. If that decline accelerated suddenly it could push interest rates higher and undermine the stock market. The surge in the federal budget deficit could also pose a problem.
Then there is the Federal Reserve. Policy makers there have pushed their benchmark short-term interest rate to 1 percent, the lowest in 45 years, and have promised to keep it there for "a considerable period." It is that low interest rate that has paved the way for the economic and market recovery.
At its meeting in October, according to minutes released yesterday, policy makers concluded that inflation could remain low until some time in 2005 and that they should wait for concrete signs of inflation before raising interest rates. But with growth picking up, Fed officials at their policy meeting this week gave a first indication that they were laying the groundwork for an eventual increase in interest rates. When rates do rise, the increase could give the stock market a pause. 
Beyond these threats, Mr. Rhodes said, "you would have to make a really serious policy error to derail the economy and to derail the market here." 
Since the Dow first passed the 10,000 mark, it has closed below 10,000 and then risen above it again 18 times, including yesterday. 
But despite the investor focus on the Dow and the two other main stock market gauges, they are not the real story for the market recovery this year. The truly robust performance is in the little-known smaller and midsize companies that many investors never hear of.
The Russell 2000 index of smaller company stocks is up 41.7 percent this year, twice the gain for the Dow and the S.&P. 500 and just short of the 45 percent rise in the Nasdaq. In addition, many of the best performers are the stocks that suffered the most during the market sell-off.
The 50 stocks in the S.&P. 500 stock index that were the worst performers in 2002 are the best performers so far this year, up an average of 70.2 percent, according to Birinyi Associates, a research and money management firm in Westport, Conn.
Stocks that pay dividends, which tend to have steady earnings over time, have also not done relatively well this year, despite a cut in dividend taxes. The average year-to-date performance through Wednesday for the 369 stocks that pay dividends in the S.&P. 500 index is 26.9 percent, according to Howard Silverblatt, equity market analyst at S.&P. The average gain for the nondividend paying stocks is 50.1 percent. 
As for the Dow, only 13 of its 30 stocks are up since the Dow first crossed 10,000, with the rise 33.1 percent. The top five are 3M; Caterpillar; Alcoa; Citigroup, up 58.9 percent; and United Technologies, another old-line industrial company, up 32.8 percent. The average decline for the other 17 Dow stocks is 34 percent. After AT&T, the big decliners are Eastman Kodak, off 63.6 percent;, SBC Communications; down 48.7 percent; Merck, down 43.7 percent; and McDonald's, off 43.5 percent.
Of the four new stocks added to the Dow in November of that year, Microsoft, Intel, SBC and Home Depot, only Intel, with a 1.6 percent rise, is up since the Dow first crossed 10,000. Home Depot is off 19.5 percent, and Microsoft, 42.4 percent.
While the Dow is still more than 1,700 points from its record high of 11,722.98 on Jan. 14, 2000, it has regained far more of what it lost in the three-year market slide than either the Nasdaq or the S.&P. 500.
The Dow is now just 17.1 percent from its record high after climbing 37.4 percent from its low of 7,286.27 on Oct. 9, 2002, the date for the bottom of the other two market gauges also. The Nasdaq has risen 74.8 percent from its 2002 low of 1,111.14 but is still 160 percent from its high of 5,048.62 on March 10, 2000. The S.&P. 500 is up 37.9 percent since its 2002 low of 776.76 but is 42.6 percent from its high of 1,527.46 on March 24, 2000. 
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 10-year notes:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.076
High Yield: 4.365
Low Yield: 4.260
Median Yield: 4.310
Total applied for: $21,338,921
Accepted: $12,000,001
Noncompetitive: $54,381
Interest set at: 4
The 10-year notes mature Nov. 15, 2013.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C7) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields"Graph tracks the average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly since August. 30-year: 5.38%15-year: 4.74% (Source by F.H.L.M.C.)(pg. C7) Graph: "DOW INDUSTRIALS -- Daily closes" First close above 10,000: March 29, 1999 April 7-8, 1999 -- First consecutive closes above 10,000 Peak close: 11,722.98 -- Jan. 14, 2000 Feb 25, 2000 -- First subsequent close below 10,000 Oct. 18, 2000 -- Dipped below 10,000 for one day Sept. 11 terror attacks Post-Sept. 11 trough: 8,235.81 on Sept. 21, 2001 Oct. 7, 2001 -- Military action against Afghanistan begins Previous close above 10,000: May 24, 2002 5-year low: 7,286.27 -- Oct. 9. 2002 March 21, 2003 -- Military action against Iraq begins Yesterday: 10,008.16 Graph tracks the daily closes of the Dow Industrials since 1999.(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); RETAIL SALES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: TROW (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



312 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: No Will To Win? 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Ready, aim. . . .
 The Democratic Party's circular firing squad has assembled. Everybody's angry with everybody else. Joe Lieberman is trying to extricate the knife that, in his view, Al Gore deposited in his back. Al Sharpton is accusing Mr. Gore of engaging in the kind of "bossism" that belongs "in the other party." 
 The Gore and Clinton families are morphing into the Hatfields and the McCoys. And the runaway Dean machine, which has shown an impressive ability to amass campaign cash and early primary support, is now generating prodigious amounts of fear and loathing as well.
Those cackles of glee you hear in the background are coming from the White House.
One very prominent Southern Democrat, who asked not to be identified, said of Howard Dean, "This guy will take us down like the Titanic. "
Representative Charles Rangel, who endorsed Gen. Wesley Clark at a press conference in Harlem yesterday (just 24 hours after Mr. Gore endorsed Dr. Dean in Harlem), said he didn't think Dr. Dean was a sure loser. But he was openly contemptuous of the Gore-Dean alliance.
"I'm here for General Clark, and people are asking me questions about Gore and Dean," he said. "The best I can figure out, they got in the cab and told the cabbie, 'Take us to Harvard' -- and the cabbie screwed up and took them to Harlem."
The Dems may indeed sink like the Titanic next year. But I don't think Dr. Dean is the problem -- at least, not yet. The problem is the party itself. God and the Republicans have blessed the Democrats with the high ground on one important issue after another, from the war in Iraq to national economic policy to health care to education to the environment.
But like the Union general George McClellan, the Democrats have been too timid to take full advantage. It's a party for the faint of heart. The Republicans are hijacking elections and redistricting the country and looting the Treasury and ignoring the Constitution and embittering our allies, while the Democrats are -- let's see, fumbling their way through an incoherent primary season and freaking out over Al Gore's endorsement of Howard Dean.
One of the reasons Dr. Dean is doing so much better at this point than his primary opponents has been his combativeness, his willingness to attack and bluntly confront President Bush and his policies.
"Our leaders have developed a vocabulary which has become meaningless to the American people," he said in his announcement speech in June. "There is no greater example of this than a self-described conservative Republican president who creates the greatest deficits in the history of America. Or a president who boasts of a Clear Skies Initiative which allows far more pollution into our air. Or a president who co-opts from an advocacy organization the phrase 'No Child Left Behind,' while paying for irresponsible tax cuts by cutting children's health care."
I don't know if Howard Dean would be able to beat George Bush. But those who are dismissing him as a sure loser should give us the name of the candidate who is so obviously more competitive. Is it Senator Lieberman? I'd like to see the odds out of Vegas if he were to go against President Bush head to head.
What about John Kerry? He might make a good president but, frankly, he looks lost in the maze of primaries. General Clark? John Edwards?
Any Democrat will be a long shot next year. Without an infusion of new voters (young people, white working families, Hispanics and women) and another huge turnout by African-Americans, the Democrats are doomed.
The strongest ticket might be Dean-Clark. But the Democrats need more than a candidate or two. The party needs a plan. It needs a coherent, compelling, convincing narrative that shows how voters and the nation would be better off under Dr. Dean or General Clark or Dick Gephardt -- take your pick -- than they are now.
To regain control of the White House, the Democrats need to give voters, who are frightened by terrorism and disoriented by the pace of 21st-century events, new reasons to hope. That can only be done by a thoughtful, united, energized and creative party. A party with a plan and a ferocious will to win.
A party that I don't see at the moment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); REDISTRICTING (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); IRAQ WAR (62%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); AL SHARPTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) HERBERT, BOB; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DEAN, HOWARD (DR)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



313 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: A Deliberate Debacle 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
James Baker sets off to negotiate Iraqi debt forgiveness with our estranged allies. And at that very moment the deputy secretary of defense releases a "Determination and Findings" on reconstruction contracts that not only excludes those allies from bidding, but does so with highly offensive language. What's going on?
 Maybe I'm giving Paul Wolfowitz too much credit, but I don't think this was mere incompetence. I think the administration's hard-liners are deliberately sabotaging reconciliation. 
 Surely this wasn't just about reserving contracts for administration cronies. Yes, Halliburton is profiteering in Iraq -- will apologists finally concede the point, now that a Pentagon audit finds overcharging? And reports suggest a scandal in Bechtel's vaunted school-repair program. 
But I've always found claims that profiteering was the motive for the Iraq war -- as opposed to a fringe benefit -- as implausible as claims that the war was about fighting terrorism. There are deeper motives here.
Mr. Wolfowitz's official rationale for the contract policy is astonishingly cynical: "Limiting competition for prime contracts will encourage the expansion of international cooperation in Iraq and in future efforts" -- future efforts? -- and "should encourage the continued cooperation of coalition members." Translation: we can bribe other nations to send troops.
But I doubt whether even Mr. Wolfowitz believes that. The last year, from the failure to get U.N. approval for the war to the retreat over the steel tariff, has been one long lesson in the limits of U.S. economic leverage. Mr. Wolfowitz knows as well as the rest of us that allies who could really provide useful help won't be swayed by a few lucrative contracts.
If the contracts don't provide useful leverage, however, why torpedo a potential reconciliation between America and its allies? Perhaps because Mr. Wolfowitz's faction doesn't want such a reconciliation.
These are tough times for the architects of the "Bush doctrine" of unilateralism and preventive war. Dick Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld and their fellow Project for a New American Century alumni viewed Iraq as a pilot project, one that would validate their views and clear the way for further regime changes. (Hence Mr. Wolfowitz's line about "future efforts.") 
Instead, the venture has turned sour -- and many insiders see Mr. Baker's mission as part of an effort by veterans of the first Bush administration to extricate George W. Bush from the hard-liners' clutches. If the mission collapses amid acrimony over contracts, that's a good thing from the hard-liners' point of view.
Bear in mind that there is plenty of evidence of policy freebooting by administration hawks, such as the clandestine meetings last summer between Pentagon officials working for Douglas Feith, under secretary of defense for policy and planning -- and a key player in the misrepresentation of the Iraqi threat -- and Iranians of dubious repute. Remember also that blowups by the hard-liners, just when the conciliators seem to be getting somewhere, have been a pattern. 
There was a striking example in August. It seemed that Colin Powell had finally convinced President Bush that if we aren't planning a war with North Korea, it makes sense to negotiate. But then John Bolton, the under secretary of state for arms control, whose role is more accurately described as "the neocons' man at State," gave a speech about Kim Jong Il, declaring: "To give in to his extortionist demands would only encourage him and, perhaps more ominously, other would-be tyrants." 
In short, this week's diplomatic debacle probably reflects an internal power struggle, with hawks using the contracts issue as a way to prevent Republican grown-ups from regaining control of U.S. foreign policy. And initial indications are that the ploy is working -- that the hawks have, once again, managed to tap into Mr. Bush's fondness for moralistic, good-versus-evil formulations. "It's very simple," Mr. Bush said yesterday. "Our people risk their lives. . . . Friendly coalition folks risk their lives. . . . The contracting is going to reflect that."
In the end the Bush doctrine -- based on delusions of grandeur about America's ability to dominate the world through force -- will collapse. What we've just learned is how hard and dirty the doctrine's proponents will fight against the inevitable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); SCANDALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); AUDITS (69%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (69%); APPROVALS (69%); TERRORISM (67%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (76%); DICK CHENEY (58%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (54%) IRAQ; GERMANY; RUSSIA; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



314 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: THE WHITE HOUSE; 
Bush Defends Barring Nations From Iraq Deals

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
President Bush on Thursday defended his policy of barring France, Germany, Russia and other nations from $18.6 billion in American-financed Iraqi reconstruction projects. But despite the anger the policy has aroused in foreign capitals, he said his personal envoy, James A. Baker III, would still meet with the leaders of several of those nations to ask that they forgive debts they are owed by Iraq.
 The president's argument was that only those nations that contributed militarily to the American effort in Iraq should reap the benefits of the $18.6 billion that Congress approved last month for reconstruction. 
 "The taxpayers understand why it makes sense for countries that risk lives to participate in the contracts in Iraq," Mr. Bush told reporters after a cabinet meeting at the White House. "It's very simple. Our people risk their lives. Coalition, friendly coalition folks risk their lives, and, therefore, the contracting is going to reflect that." 
Administration officials acknowledged that Mr. Bush's position had enraged the very nations the administration was now seeking help from, and that Mr. Baker, who was appointed as the president's envoy last Friday, faced a more chaotic situation than he had expected. But the officials sought to portray Mr. Baker as undeterred. 
"Was it helpful?" said a senior administration official who asked not to be identified for fear of being seen as criticizing the president. "Well, clearly not. But he'll find a way to work with the world as it is."
Mr. Baker is to leave on Monday from his home in Houston for a five-day, five-nation trip. He is to see the administration's chief foreign opponents in the debate over the war with Iraq: President Jacques Chirac of France, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. Mr. Baker will also meet with two allies who supported Mr. Bush on the war: Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy.
Mr. Baker will return to Houston on Friday and brief the president by phone. Administration officials said he had no plans to return to Washington before the end of the year.
A former secretary of state and former secretary of the treasury, Mr. Baker will travel to the foreign capitals by government plane from Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington. He will take with him staff members from the State Department and the Treasury Department as well as Gary Edson, a deputy national security adviser at the White House who handles international economics.
Mr. Baker will not have a press secretary, reporters will not travel with him, and he is not expected to hold news conferences overseas. Administration officials said Mr. Baker, who in previous administrations was extraordinarily accessible to reporters, was adamant that he not be seen as grandstanding or as undercutting Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who is the administration's chief representative overseas.
But administration officials said Mr. Baker would be seen in foreign capitals as having more leverage with Mr. Bush than Mr. Powell, who is viewed as a combatant in the Bush administration's policy wars.
"Baker is Bush," said a senior administration official who asked not to be identified because he was criticizing Mr. Powell. "Other countries know that Powell doesn't win all the battles. If you deal with Baker, you know you're going to get what you need."
Mr. Baker met with Mr. Bush in the Oval Office on Wednesday, when the president gave him general instructions, a senior administration official said, to "go and get the international community to do something about Iraq's crushing debt." The official said that Mr. Bush was not more specific because "Baker knows how to do this."
Mr. Baker's approach with the foreign leaders, the official said, would be to make the president's case on keeping the $18.6 billion in the hands of alliance members while holding out the promise that there will be more construction contracts for other nations down the road.
"This is our money, but there's lots of other money for which contracting is completely open," the official said. "Even with the U.S.-led reconstruction, as circumstances change on the ground, we want to look at that."
Mr. Bush left similar room on Thursday for Canada, which opposed the war and as a result was barred under the policy from the $18.6 billion in Iraqi projects. Canadian officials were so outraged that Mr. Bush telephoned Prime Minister Jean Chretien on Thursday morning to reassure him. 
Exactly what was said is not clear. Soon after Mr. Chretien told reporters at a news conference that Canada would now be eligible to compete for projects in Iraq. But White House officials said later in the day that Canada was still excluded -- though they kept their public comments vague and implied they were open to negotiating an agreement.
"We'll be glad to talk with Canadian officials about this decision," Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, told reporters. "We do very much appreciate the contributions that they have made, both in Afghanistan and to Iraq, and we'll be glad to discuss those issues with them."
Mr. Baker, who was secretary of state for Mr. Bush's father during the 1991 Persian Gulf war, is volunteering his time as the president's personal envoy. In the decade since leaving the White House, he has created the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University in Houston. He has also worked as an lawyer for Baker Botts, the Houston law firm his grandfather founded, and as a senior counselor at the Carlyle Group, an international investment bank. 
Administration officials said Mr. Baker would retain his positions at Baker Botts and the Carlyle Group while serving as the president's personal envoy, and added that he had been vetted by the White House counsel's office for potential conflicts of interest. 
The Carlyle Group, which has $17.5 billion in gross assets under management, invests money for 550 investors in 55 countries, and has investors in the Middle East. It has no investors or investments in Iraq.
Chris Ullman, a Carlyle spokesman, said Mr. Baker had not personally raised money from overseas investors, and therefore would not be in the position of negotiating with his business clients on behalf of the White House. But Mr. Ullman said Mr. Baker did speak at Carlyle events intended to attract investors.
"He never asks for money, and does not follow up or do any of that," Mr. Ullman said. "He effectively is a draw at fund-raising-type events."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and his cabinet at the White House yesterday in their final meeting this year. Afterward, he defended his policy of barring some nations from Iraq construction projects. "The taxpayers understand why it makes sense for countries that risk lives to participate in contracts in Iraq." (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); APPROVALS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); AIR FORCES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); TERRORISM (59%); ARMED FORCES (50%) CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (59%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%); GERHARD SCHRODER (58%); TONY BLAIR (57%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A III; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); BERLUSCONI, SILVIO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (93%) IRAQ; FRANCE; GERMANY; RUSSIA; GREAT BRITAIN; ITALY#000T031213SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



315 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Administration Weighs New Protection for Steel 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Bush administration has been considering a plan to change how certain duties on steel imports are calculated, which would give new protection to American steel makers.
 The proposal, being reviewed by the Commerce Department, would raise the duties on $1.7 billion in steel imports determined to have been exported to the United States at prices lower than those in the producer's home market, a practice known as dumping. Revenue from the increased penalties would go to companies like the International Steel Group, U.S. Steel and Nucor, which asked the department for the changes. 
 The proposed change predates President Bush's move last week to lift steel tariffs. The Commerce Department opened the plan for comments on Sept. 9, and the last round of comments was submitted to the department Nov. 7. The administration has not set a deadline for a decision.
The European Union is fighting the proposal, arguing in a filing with the Commerce Department that it would be a "perversion" of World Trade Organization rules.
The union warned of "serious implications that a change in current practice would entail on trade."
The W.T.O. ruled against the Bush administration's general steel tariffs, and the European Union, Japan and others were about to impose retaliatory sanctions before the United States dropped them last Thursday.
Elevating the proposal to the present formal consideration represents a concession to steel makers and opens the way to instituting it. The Clinton administration had rejected even considering the idea.
Christian Mari, a director at the Brussels-based Eurofer, which represents companies that produce 95 percent of European steel, called the plan a continuation of the tariffs by other means. 
Administration officials say the proposed change is a normal legal consideration that will be decided on its merits. "It's not connected in any way" to the discontinued steel tariffs, the under secretary of commerce, Grant Aldonas, said.
 However the Commerce Department decides, the courts may have the final word, an industry lawyer said. "One side or the other is going to end up pressing litigation on this one," said Roger Schagrin, a lawyer representing Nucor, Weirton Steel and other producers.
The administration's decision has been complicated because the European Union and steel importers are linking it to the discontinued tariffs and threatening retaliation, Mr. Schagrin said.
The general tariff imposed by President Bush in March 2002, called a safeguard, was intended to shield American steel makers for three years from what the government called unfair import competition.
Antidumping duties, a separate issue, are legal under the W.T.O. and are aimed at barring steel makers from selling exported products for less than they charge in their own markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (92%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (92%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); LAWYERS (64%) STEEL AND IRON; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); DUMPING (TRADE TERM); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL STEEL USA INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; INTERNATIONAL STEEL GROUP; UNITED STATES STEEL; NUCOR CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (90%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (90%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (70%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



316 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-26

Evidence of Overcharging Seen In Iraq Contract
A Pentagon investigation has found evidence that a subsidiary of the Halliburton Company overcharged the government by as much as $61 million for gasoline delivered to Iraq under huge reconstruction contracts. A1

President Bush defended his policy of barring France, Germany, Russia and other nations from American-financed contracts for Iraqi reconstruction projects, saying that only the countries that contributed militarily to the effort in Iraq should reap the benefits of the $18.6 billion that Congress approved. A1

L. Paul Bremer III, the American administrator of Iraq, said the country's transition to independence could be marred by increased violence, but he expressed confidence that Iraqis could build a democracy. A26

The Marines, headed to Iraq this spring, say they intend to refrain from the get-tough tactics that have been used recently by Army units in an effort to avoid alienating Iraqis and depriving American commanders of the support and intelligence needed to ferret out threats. A26

Terror Suspect Released
Because of an American refusal to allow testimony from a jailed Qaeda figure, a Hamburg judge ordered the release of a Moroccan man accused of aiding the Sept. 11 hijackers. A3

French Church-State Policy
A report on church-state relations in France recommended sweeping changes in the way the country balances its commitment to secularism with the demands of its religious minorities. A1

Considering Aid for North Korea
The U.S. is considering releasing about 66,000 tons in additional food aid to North Korea this year as that country faces a winter famine. A15

NATIONAL A28-40

Report Says U.S. in Dark On Financing of Terrorism
Federal authorities do not have a clear understanding of how terrorists move their financial assets and are struggling to prevent the flow of money to terror groups, a Congressional report found. A1

Charitable Deductions at Issue
Charitable donations of items from mittens and food to property and planes is coming under Congressional scrutiny, thanks to research raising questions about the real value of donated vehicles. A28

Cubans Guilty of Hijacking
A jury found six Cuban men guilty of hijacking a passenger flight from their country to South Florida last March, in what federal prosecutors called a rebuke to the use of violence to reach the United States. A28

Kerry on Corporate Crime
Senator John Kerry said he would crack down on abuses in the mutual fund industry if elected president and called for expanding the anti-racketeering laws to fight a "new age of organized crime that comes from corporate offices." A40

SCIENCE/HEALTH

U.S. to Consider Abortion Pill
Two panels for the Food and Drug Administration will consider whether to allow the so-called morning-after pill, now a prescription drug taken after intercourse to prevent pregnancy, to be sold over the counter. A1

Army Advances on Ebola Cure
Army scientists said they had taken an important step toward a possible treatment for the deadly Ebola virus in humans by successfully treating monkeys with the disease for the first time. A36

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

Delays in Hearings Leave Violent Students in School
High school principals and deans say the city's system for suspending violent students is in disarray, sometimes resulting in three-week delays before dangerous students can be removed from a school. A1

Sharpton's Support Slips
The Rev. Al Sharpton is seeing his political support in New York slip away, according to Democratic officials and strategists, even as he raises his national stature by running for president. B1

Long Island Ticket Crackdown
Some residents of Huntington Station, N.Y., are complaining that town officials are bullying homeowners by ratcheting up the enforcement of town code violations. B1

Neediest Cases B10

SPORTS D1-8

Pettitte Signs With Astros
Andy Pettitte said no to the Yankees' final contract offer, signing a three-year, $31.5 million deal to pitch for the Houston Astros. A1

WEEKEND E1-40; E41-50

ESCAPES F1-12

OBITUARIES A41

John Sidgmore
A leading Internet entrepreneur who became chairman and chief executive of WorldCom last year when its founder, Bernard J. Ebbers, was forced to resign, he was 52. A41

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Dow Jones Breaks 10,000
The Dow Jones industrial average closed above 10,000 for the first time in more than 18 months, adding its own ratification to this year's economic rebound. C1

Lower Fees In Fund Industry
Eliot Spitzer's campaign to lower fees in the mutual fund industry may be making some headway, even though pricing is normally the domain of the Securities and Exchange Commission. C1

Federal Ruling on Inflation
Federal Reserve officials concluded in October that inflation could remain low until 2005 and that they should not raise interest rates until they saw concrete signs of rising prices, according to meeting notes. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A42-43

Editorials: Cutting James Baker's ties; the shortage of flu vaccines; last-minute damage to the environment; calling "Candid Camera."

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E40
TV Listings E39
Public Lives B2
Weather D9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); HIJACKING (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); TESTIMONY (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); CHARITIES (77%); FAMINE (76%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); ARMIES (73%); NARCOTERRORISM (72%); VERDICTS (71%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); LITIGATION (71%); CHURCH & STATE (70%); APPROVALS (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (69%); CHARITIES LAW (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); JUDGES (66%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (62%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%); CONTRACEPTION (61%); ABORTION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (91%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (91%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (91%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (91%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (91%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



317 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Shift by China Might Not Aid U.S. Industry, Fed Chief Says 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Friday, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said on Thursday that American manufacturers may not benefit much if China permits its currency to rise in value against the dollar.
 Jumping into a domestic political debate that has roiled Congress and put the Bush administration in a quandary, Mr. Greenspan said that if the Chinese currency, known as the yuan or the renminbi, did appreciate, American retailers would probably buy from other low-wage countries instead of from domestic companies. 
 Textile industry executives and politicians from Southern states, where the industry has many operations, have been especially critical of China for keeping its currency pegged around 8.28 yuan to the dollar for the last seven years. But Mr. Greenspan said that they would benefit little from any appreciation. 
"Far more likely is that our imports from other low-wage countries would replace Chinese textiles," he said in a speech to the World Affairs Council of Greater Dallas. 
At a time when the Bush administration has imposed narrowly defined quotas on bras and sleepwear from China and tariffs on Chinese color televisions, Mr. Greenspan said that broader restrictions on trade would hurt the United States. He warned against any return to the high tariffs that characterized American trade policy in the middle of the 20th century.
"Were we to yield to such selective nostalgia and shut out a large part, or all, of imports of manufactured goods and produce them ourselves, our overall standards of living would fall," he said.
Yet in a rare piece of public advice on how another country might handle its monetary policy, Mr. Greenspan suggested that China could not sustain its current policies indefinitely.
Foreign investment and speculative money have been flooding into China, drawn partly by rapid economic growth but also by the potential for quick gains if the currency appreciates. Beijing has prevented investors from bidding up the value of the yuan with all those dollars by buying huge numbers of dollars and printing more yuan to pay for them.
The People's Bank of China, the nation's central bank, has tried to prevent these extra yuan from causing inflation by selling government notes and bonds, and canceling the yuan that Chinese banks and citizens use to pay for them. That has been only partly successful. China's money supply is rising 20 percent a year.
"Should this pattern continue, the central bank will be confronted with the choice of an overheated economy, with its potential recessionary consequences, or a curtailing of dollar asset purchases," Mr. Greenspan said. "The latter, presumably, would allow the renminbi to appreciate against the dollar."
Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that weaknesses in China's banking system were a concern. "A prosperous China will bring substantial positive benefits to the rest of the trading world," he said. "It is, thus, important to all of us that they succeed in navigating through their current economic and financial imbalances."
Before and during a visit to Beijing in September, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow urged China to permit its currency to appreciate. But after Chinese officials bridled at the public criticism, American officials became more cautious. President Bush said little publicly about the subject on Tuesday when Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China visited the White House.
President Bush did publicly urge President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan not to hold a referendum on China's missile buildup. The planned vote has infuriated China, which sees it as a step toward formal independence for the island. Liang Hong, an economist in the offices here of Goldman Sachs, said President Bush's comments on Taiwan had fostered speculation that China might later reward the Bush administration by permitting some appreciation of the yuan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (86%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); RETAILERS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); TEXTILES (71%); BONDS (71%); SLEEPWEAR & LOUNGEWEAR (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (52%) CURRENCY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



318 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 927 words

PERSON: Bruce S. Fowle 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Pragmatic Eye on the Downtown Site Plan

BYLINE:  By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
FAME is what Daniel Libeskind, the big winner in the urban reality sweepstakes to anoint a lead architect for the resurrection of the World Trade Center, is basking in or suffering through, depending on his appetite for cutting a high-profile swath by creating world-class architecture from a disaster. Resignation is almost what Bruce S. Fowle, a prominent yet low-key peer -- no kooky glasses, no silly scarf, no gel on the cranium or speckled beard -- is feeling as the towers grow taller and clunkier and the planning ordeal crawls on. But not quite.
 Though his team's ground zero concept was short-listed after Round 1, it failed to make the cut during the second round of competition. Mr. Fowle's group is focused on the marketability of the office buildings and their integration into the neighborhood. Forget about Freedom Tower fever. "I agree there should be something in the skyline which symbolizes the event, but I don't think it has to be the tallest building in the world," he says, a shade irritably. 
 And forget about transparent gardens in the sky. When you're married to the president of the New York City Audubon Society, you don't dare get whimsical and propose a tower that messes with the minds, or trajectory, of migrating birds. Discouraged by the byzantine selection process, the faintly freckled Mr. Fowle, 66, whose Chelsea-based firm, Fox & Fowle, designed two new denizens of Times Square, the Conde Nast and Reuters towers, didn't have the heart to take another crack at imposing his vision downtown when the Lower Manhattan Development Company opened the floodgates to would-be designs for a Sept. 11 memorial. This time around he skipped what he deems a flawed process and redirected himself to other projects: the Roosevelt Avenue Intermodal Transit Terminal in Queens, the renovation of the landmark Bronx Zoo Lion House to accommodate a Madagascar exhibit, a collaboration with Renzo Piano on a gossamer new headquarters for The New York Times opposite the Port Authority Bus Terminal, the design of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University, his alma mater. 
Regarding what sprouts at the trade center site, he was left on the sidelines, and from there, Mr. Fowle watched like a hawk, but never silently. Less than a week after the towers fell, he and like-minded designers huddled right here at his Italian marble conference table -- he can't recall the color of his tie without sneaking a glance but remembers that this slab of stone is called Fior di Pesco -- and formed a coalition, New York New Visions. Worry that the design competition might turn out to be a travesty is what drew, and kept, them together. 
"Between the real estate forces, the political forces and the bureaucracy," says Mr. Fowle, pounding his fists against the table as he lists each ingredient for architectural agita, "we were very concerned that the design community would not have a chance to influence what happened there." They still are. But last week New York New Visions was asked to come aboard in an advisory capacity; Mr. Fowle is chairman of the committee that will review the site plan, and another committee will concentrate on the memorial. New York New Visions has already expressed dismay with the eight memorial finalists: undistinguished and "all within the box" is the main gripe. That and the fact that the overall site and memorial plans seem estranged. 
SUDDENLY I'm famous because I'm going to lead this mere little committee to review the site guidelines," he says, doubtfully. "And yes, it's purely an advisory, pro bono role. But I see it as the last opportunity to have influence over what gets built, so I'm looking at it as a positive." As opposed to looking at it as another piece of political window-dressing? This earns a shrug. "The Libeskind scheme has great potential as a concept, but it's extremely fragile because it's so dependent on the relationship between the buildings. Would I have done it the same way? No. But it has a clear integrity. I'm critical of the process, but not of what we have to work with. At New York New Visions, our interests are in the public good: even the World Trade Center didn't make economic sense until five years before it fell, so I think it's fair to make sure that doesn't happen again."
Mr. Fowle grew up on the North Shore of Long Island in Manhasset with zero awareness of architecture until the construction of a wildly modern Unitarian Church caught his eye during junior high. A high school visit to New York City determined his career: "When I saw the Lever House, that's when the light bulb went off. Every other building was solid masonry, and there was this glass and metal structure, this sculptural form, really, and that's when I knew I had to be an architect." Modern is his mantra: even his prewar apartment at 94th and Park, and his 250-year-old house in the Berkshires, contain modern embellishments. He patronizes the New York City Ballet because it fuses modern dance and ballet: "I don't get excited about classical." 
He and his former partner, Robert F. Fox Jr., opened Fox & Fowle 25 years ago but split up in March. Mr. Fowle has not yet changed the firm's name, nor has he removed the delightful sign outside his office: it is wordless, round, wall-mounted on a lazy susan, and features a fox and a waterfowl. Time was when each partner surreptitiously spun the sign so his surname, in animal form, was on top. Now the bird is permanently topside. Mr. Fowle blushes. "I should probably take it down," he says. 
Not on our account.

GRAPHIC: Photo: BRUCE S. FOWLE (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); SWEEPSTAKES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (70%); BIRDS (66%); HIJACKING (65%); TERRORISM (63%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (62%); PORT AUTHORITIES (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Architecture; Area Planning and Renewal; Monuments and Memorials; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (55%) Fox & Fowle Architects; Conde Nast Publications Inc

Robin Finn; Bruce S Fowle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC); New York City

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



319 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 406 words

PERSON: Eugene A. Cafiero 

HEADLINE: Eugene A. Cafiero, 77, President of Chrysler in Time of Crisis 

BYLINE:  By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
Eugene A. Cafiero, who was president of the Chrysler Corporation in the late 1970's, a period of roller coaster profits and losses for the company, died on Monday in Naples, Fla. He was 77.
 The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said his son-in-law, Stephan Hedbabny. 
 In 1975, when Mr. Cafiero became president of Chrysler, the company was in a financial crisis and heavily in debt. Under him, Chrysler turned in two years of profits, but a recession, combined with new federal fuel efficiency standards, caused sharp losses in 1978, when Mr. Cafiero was succeeded by Lee A. Iacocca.
In 1953, Chrysler bought the company Mr. Cafiero was working for, Briggs Manufacturing, an auto-body maker. After earning a master's degree in management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1960, he moved up Chrysler's ranks, becoming a vice president in 1968.
His background as a plant manager set him apart from the other officials in upper management, most of whomhad backgrounds in finance.
A recession in the mid-1970's hit Chrysler hard, causing Lynn A. Townsend, who had been president since 1961, to resign. The decision to appoint Mr. Cafiero as president and Joseph J. Riccardo as chairman and chief executive was seen as a move to bring in younger blood.
According to contemporary accounts, the two men's strategy, which entailed revamping foreign operations and investing heavily in the development of cars, was vindicated by profitable years in 1976 and 1977. But in 1978, Congress imposed the fuel standards, and in April of that year, Chrysler reported the biggest quarterly loss in its history. The following November, Mr. Cafiero had become vice chairman and Mr. Iacocca was brought in as president. Mr. Cafiero resigned from the company in March 1979.
After leaving Chrysler, Mr. Cafiero was president of several companies, including the DeLorean Motor Company; later he was a founder of Computerized Security Systems. 
Eugene Anthony Cafiero was born on June 13, 1926, in Brooklyn. He graduated from Dartmouth in 1946, and spent two years in the Navy before joining Ford Motor as a management trainee at an auto assembly plant in New Jersey.
Mr. Cafiero's first marriage, to Nancy Barnard, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Taryn, of Naples, Fla.; three children from his first marriage, Clayton, Anne, and Sarah Jane; two daughters from his second marriage, Chiara and Chloe; and three grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eugene A. Cafiero (Photo by The New York Times, 1975) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARRIAGE (87%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); MANAGER TRAINING (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (70%); CANCER (57%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); COMPUTERIZED SECURITY SYSTEMS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%) Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

Campbell Robertson

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



320 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Surrogate Mother Prepares for a Reunion

BYLINE:  By ANNA BAHNEY

 BODY:
Sandra Cunningham's studio apartment in Brownsville, Brooklyn, is a wonderland waiting for winter. Jazz plays, a fire glows in an electric hearth and the mantel is lined with 10 two-foot-tall Christmas trees decorated with children's toys and dolls, women's cosmetics and candy. There are several more around the room, and the walls are covered with almost three dozen wreaths laden with similar treats.
 But Ms. Cunningham, 48, is waiting for the time she and her family -- two nieces in Texas -- will be reunited. The small apartment and her two years of unemployment are the largest obstacles, and the holiday handcrafts are part of her struggle to get past them. 
 "I had to do something to make money," Ms. Cunningham said, the day after an open house in her apartment, where she made $800 from her new gift business, Little Shop of Sandra's Poinsettia Productions.
In the fall of 2001, Ms. Cunningham was working for American Express in Lower Manhattan. She traveled on business and enjoyed working three days a week from home. In 15 years, she had risen from a $20,000-a-year secretarial position to a $70,000 position as a senior systems analyst.
Despite her professional success, there were personal setbacks along the way, which she has met with grace and irrepressible optimism.
At 24, Ms. Cunningham was found to have Hodgkin's disease; she underwent two and a half years of chemotherapy and a month of radiation. "I never thought I would get well enough to go back to work," she said, "but lo and behold, I did."
Then, eight years ago, her sister, who suffers from schizophrenia, became unable to take care of her twin daughters. Ms. Cunningham helped her nieces, Simone and Samantha, now 14, into the care of her mother and father in Brooklyn. "Better to have them with us than in the system," she said.
In 1999, when Ms. Cunningham's father died, her mother returned with the two girls to her hometown, Bay City, Tex., 80 miles southwest of Houston. Ms. Cunningham took on the responsibility of caring for her sister, who also lives in Brooklyn. "I manage her money and make sure her place is clean," she said.
Even when Ms. Cunningham was laid off from American Express in December 2001 during the economic downturn that followed Sept. 11, she looked at it as an opportunity: "I've worked 27 years straight. Before I go back to work, I thought, 'I'll take a little time off now, since I've never had it.' "
Ms. Cunningham had hoped to visit Texas in December that year (her mother's birthday is Christmas Day) but she was afraid to fly. She said that by March 2002 she began thinking, "I better go visit my mother because I'll be going back to work soon and I won't be able to."
In Texas, she learned that her mother had lung cancer. "I go on Monday, she dies on Friday," Ms. Cunningham said. "All of the sudden I became an instant mother of two children."
Ms. Cunningham moved into her mother's house with her nieces, but discovered that small-town life was not for her. She said, "I had to come back, because at that point it was a matter of me surviving so I could be well enough to provide for them in the future."
She left the girls in the care of a 78-year-old aunt in Texas and returned to Brooklyn. But after she spent $10,000 on travel to and from Texas and caring for the girls, her money was critically low.
"You never know when your savings is going to have to be spent," Ms. Cunningham said. "People think they are going to have this money forever, but circumstances will have it so that you have to spend every dime of it."
Ms. Cunningham was referred to the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, one of seven agencies that participate in The New York Times Neediest Case Fund. There, she met Jeanne Bailey, a social worker at a community response center. Ms. Bailey counseled Ms. Cunningham through her grief over her parents' deaths and her fear about providing for the girls. Ms. Bailey also secured $709 in Neediest Cases funds to assist Ms. Cunningham with her rent in September, and $100 for food and transportation.
Ms. Cunningham has found a part-time job at St. Christopher-Ottilie Center for Family Life in Brooklyn, where she earns $10 an hour for two nights a week as a child care provider during parenting classes. Ms. Cunningham said her employer was surprised that she would accept the job. "She said, 'You were making $70,000 a year and you're going to take this job?' " Ms. Cunningham recalled.
But Ms. Cunningham is realistic. "I have to put my pride aside and say, even if this is giving me a little bit of money to put food in my refrigerator, it is better than nothing," she said. 
While Ms. Cunningham is still looking for an apartment and a job to prepare for the twins' arrival when the school year ends, she is making her creations for Christmas. "I knew I couldn't sit here and do nothing, and that's why I did this," she said, lifting her hands toward the trees and wreaths. "At least let me try to do something I love."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $3,991,845.66
Recorded Wednesday: 129,484.97
Total: $4,121,330.63

Last year to date: $4,364,624.92

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sandra Cunningham has been out of work for two years because of family problems. She earns a little by making Christmas decorations. (Photo by Edwine Seymour for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (77%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (74%); TOYS & GAMES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); LYMPHOMA (64%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (64%); MENTAL ILLNESS (64%) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

PERSON: Anna Bahney; Sandra Cunningham

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



321 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: The Business of Rebuilding Iraq 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Bidding for Isolation" (editorial, Dec. 11): 
 It's not about isolation; it's about consequences. 
I don't want my tax dollars going to companies in countries that openly opposed us and tried to thwart us at every turn. And, as our legislators continually remind us, we are in a recession and our people need jobs. Our companies need the contracts, which will help provide jobs and income for Americans, and tax revenue from the corporations. 
The decision to bar companies from certain countries is the right thing to do: to those countries and for our country.

F. CAREY BRINKER
Clearwater, Fla., Dec. 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: F Carey Brinker

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (89%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (59%) Iraq; Europe; France; Germany; Russia

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



322 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Asks For Grants Downtown 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Three years ago, Goldman Sachs decided to build the tallest and most expensive skyscraper in Jersey City -- a development that left New York officials fuming over the snub.
 That 42-story, $1.3 billion tower is now nearing completion, but the investment bank is having trouble finding anyone to move into it. Faced with an unpopular new building across the Hudson, Goldman Sachs emerged suddenly last week with a new plan: to build a 1.5-million-square-foot tower in Lower Manhattan, directly across from ground zero. 
 And as it did in New Jersey, Goldman Sachs is seeking subsidies to build in New York, where its headquarters have long been located. 
The investment bank has spurned suggestions that it move into 7 World Trade Center, the tower Larry Silverstein is building, or the so-called Freedom Tower, the 70-story building that is to be the centerpiece at ground zero. Neither of the buildings, which will have a total of 4.3 million square feet of office space, has a tenant.
Instead Henry M. Paulson, the firm's chairman, has told the governor and the mayor that Goldman wants its own tower, on what is known as Site 26 at Battery Park City, and wants some of the same cash grants, tax breaks and tax-free financing that are available downtown right now, according to state and city officials who are working with the bank.
"It's heartening that Goldman has decided to build in Lower Manhattan," said Harvey Robins, a mayoral aide to Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins. "But in terms of their planning, Jersey has turned into one big folly. Goldman squeezed Jersey for tax breaks and now they're not missing a beat in looking for subsidies on this side of the river."
Goldman itself declined to discuss its plans in New York.
"We're exploring a number of options," said Bruce Corwin, a spokesman for the bank, "but we're committed to remaining in downtown Manhattan."
State and city officials and downtown executives have embraced Goldman's proposal, although negotiations are expected to go on for some time. "I'm thrilled Goldman is committed to building a new headquarters downtown," said Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York. "It's not only directly important in terms of Goldman's prestige and number of employees, but it's also a signal to others to consider building on the World Trade Center site and elsewhere in Lower Manhattan."
But even those who welcomed Goldman's initiative also marveled at the bank's "hubris." 
Goldman bought the land in 1999 for the tower in Jersey City -- one of three development parcels it acquired at the site of the old Colgate toothpaste factory -- at a time when Wall Street was booming and the bank had doubled the size of its work force and its real estate holdings in Lower Manhattan. There was talk of building a trading floor and creating a training center.
Good building sites were unavailable downtown, Goldman executives said at the time in explaining their decision to jump across the Hudson River. What was also available in New Jersey was more than $160 million in tax breaks over 10 years.
Early in 2002, the company told employees that it would move equity sales and trading operations, as well as researchers and data departments, to its 875-foot tower under construction in Jersey City. That set off an insurrection by traders who did not want to be cast off to New Jersey, according to banking and real estate executives. At the same time, a downturn in the economy prompted Goldman to scrap plans for a second building in Jersey City and to cut 13 percent of its work force. The bank currently leases a total of about four million square feet in nine buildings in Lower Manhattan, although not all of it is occupied.
It recently negotiated a deal to pay the landlord at 10 Hanover Square near Wall Street $40 million to cancel its lease next September, according to real estate executives who were briefed on the talks. And last summer, with the cost of its new tower mounting, Goldman tried to lease it to Mellon Financial Services. Instead, real estate brokers say, Mellon appears close to leasing a different office tower in Jersey City that UBS is no longer moving into.
Mr. Corwin of Goldman Sachs said the bank now planned to move "a few thousand" employees into the Jersey tower, a building that could accommodate more than 6,000 workers, beginning in April. Brokers say that at least for now, the bank will occupy only about a quarter of the tower, although one Goldman banker said that half the building would be in use by next fall.
"Goldman's intention is to occupy about 350,000 square feet and mothball the rest," said a top real estate executive in New York who deals with the investment bank. But that has not stopped Goldman from thinking about consolidating its operations in Lower Manhattan, where it is spread across nine buildings. Given the tax incentives available for rebuilding downtown and the tax-free Liberty Bonds available for new construction, the bank focused on a new headquarters at Site 26, at the north end of the World Financial Center. 
The parcel offers an unobstructed view of its Jersey City tower one mile to the west, which the company hopes will convince employees consigned to New Jersey that they are still in the mix as Goldman consolidates its operations into a tower on each side of the river over the next five years.
"They're having difficulty getting people to go to Jersey City," said one developer who has talked to Goldman. "If they get Site 26, they could run their own private ferry between the buildings."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The parcel of land near ground zero, on which Goldman Sachs wants to build a new office tower and possibly consolidate its New York City operations. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (87%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS MFG (60%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Building (Construction); Tax Credits; Tax Deductions

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs & Co

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%) Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Jersey City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



323 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
Small Armies, Without Rifles, From Japan

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
THE major story out of Tokyo this week was Japan's decision to send up to 600 soldiers to Iraq. For a country that since World War II has had a profound aversion to military entanglements -- not to mention to potential military defeats -- this qualified as a very big deal.
 A big deal of a different nature unfolded on Wednesday in a ballroom of the Sheraton New York. For this occasion, a small army of Japanese also turned out. This group, however, carried not rifles but notepads, tape recorders and cameras. 
 What drew them was an announcement by the sad-sack New York Mets that in an expensive effort to improve their station, they had signed a talented shortstop named Kazuo Matsui from the Seibu Lions of Japan's Pacific League. This is only a guess, but an agreement to pay Mr. Matsui $20.1 million over three years may have gone far to bring about a final handshake, or a bow, or whatever.
The consequences for the Mets' won-lost percentage will obviously not be clear for a while. But the large corps of Japanese journalists in New York already knows what's in store: all Matsui, all the time.
Suddenly, this is a two-Matsui town. The estimable Hideki Matsui, no relation to Kazuo, joined the Yankees' outfield last season with the same kind of fanfare. All season, wherever he went, platoons of Japanese news gatherers closely followed, recording his every move and utterance.
For some Japanese travelers, Hideki Matsui became a New York tourist attraction unto himself. Shuji Okamoto, the general manager here for Japan Travel Bureau International, said that of the various package tours offered by his agency, the most popular this year was one that included a ticket to a Yankees game.
With two Matsuis, the city may well have stumbled upon a tourism bonanza.
In general, New York is somewhat smitten with Japanese imports, a phenomenon that goes well beyond ballplayers or even sushi restaurants, all but inescapable in some neighborhoods.
This represents quite a switch from the 1980's, the height of Japan's economic power and, some would say, arrogance. In those years, Japanese companies were as likely as not to be seen as predators. There they were, snatching up Rockefeller Center and other iconic properties with the regularity of, well, the rising sun.
Then the economic bubble burst. Japan the menace faded as a theme. "All that is off the radar," said Robert M. Immerman, a former American diplomat in Tokyo, now a senior research associate at Columbia University's Weatherhead East Asian Institute. "Now at the top you have sweetness and light. The trade wars are over."
But not the Japanese influence in this city. It has been transformed. No longer is it all about finance and commerce.
The Japan Society, on East 47th Street, says it gets sold-out crowds for programs on Japanese design, cuisine, architecture, comic books and the animation form known as anime. "Japan is very much in the pop-culture limelight these days," said John Wheeler, executive vice president of the society, a nonprofit group that seeks to stimulate interest in matters Japanese.
The New Yorkers who show up are not necessarily Japanaholics. "Some of them, frankly, couldn't care less about Japan," Mr. Wheeler said. "They're interested in the health aspects of Japanese cuisine, or in design and architecture insights, or environmental trends -- things where Japan is part of setting the international trend."
Kinokuniya, a Japanese-themed bookstore in Rockefeller Center, reports similarly increased interest. The surge is especially noticeable, Mr. Immerman says, among young people, unfamiliar with an earlier generation's view of Japan as "the big threat or as the unknowable."
SO you have a Japanese architect, Yoshio Taniguchi, designing the Museum of Modern Art's new Midtown building. You have Kazuyo Sejima doing the same for the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo. You have Toshio Sasaki of Brooklyn, born in Kyoto, becoming a finalist in the competition to design the memorial at ground zero. You have movies like "The Last Samurai" and "Lost in Translation," set in Tokyo.
And you have the latest import, Kazuo Matsui.
One challenge he and his family face, the new Met said, is learning New York ways. "The quicker we can get used to the culture, the better," he said through a translator.
Apparently, he was not fully aware that having a Japanese play ball in this town is as American as raw fish and buckwheat noodles. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); WRITERS (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); RESTAURANTS (66%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (65%); TOURISM (65%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%); TOUR PACKAGES (64%); ATHLETES (61%); TRADE DISPUTES (61%) Baseball

COMPANY: JTB CORP (90%); JTB USA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (82%) New York Mets; New York Yankees

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%)

PERSON: Clyde Haberman; Hideki Matsui; Kazuo Matsui

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) Japan; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



324 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: A Candidate Captures a Vote, if Not a Heart 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: CONCORD, N.H., Dec. 11 

 BODY:
Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, the Democratic presidential candidate who declared in a debate last month that he was in the market for an "outspoken woman," may have met his Mrs. Right on Thursday morning: a 34-year-old New Jersey resident who won breakfast with him by entering an Internet contest entitled "Who Wants to Be a First Lady?"
 The twice-divorced Mr. Kucinich, 57, and his date, Gina Marie Santore, talked politics and issues over oatmeal and orange juice at a Holiday Inn here in Concord, where he is campaigning. Ms. Santore gave him a T-shirt bearing a likeness of the Constitution and said he had her vote. He gave her a signed copy of a piece of campaign literature and pronounced himself "grateful for the chance" to have met her. 
 The conversation, they insisted, was strictly about issues: the cost of prescription drugs, workers' rights, medical malpractice.
Romance? "There is romance in some of these issues," Ms. Santore said before giving Mr. Kucinich a peck on the cheek goodbye.
Mr. Kucinich, a long shot for the Democratic nomination, has been crisscrossing New Hampshire since Tuesday, when he made a splash at a televised debate by lashing out at the host, Ted Koppel of ABC News, who had pressed him about his low poll numbers and lackluster fund-raising.
Mr. Kucinich stepped up his attack on Wednesday and Thursday, accusing the news media in general and ABC News in particular of "trying to set the agenda for this election" by ignoring his campaign and focusing solely on polls and money instead of issues.
Still, plenty of reporters were on hand to cover his breakfast date with Ms. Santore, at 7:30 Thursday morning.
The impetus for the contest, sponsored by a political Web site, www.PoliticsNH.com, was an offhand remark Mr. Kucinich made during a debate on Nov. 5, when all the candidates were asked about their first ladies. "As a bachelor," Mr. Kucinich replied, "I get a chance to fantasize about my first lady."
He went on to say that he would want "a dynamic, outspoken woman who was fearless in her desire for peace in the world and for universal, single-payer health care and a full-employment economy."
"If you are out there," he added, "call me."
Ms. Santore, a confidential aide to the sheriff of Camden County, N.J., responded with a personal ad that said in part, "It's time to embrace an assertive woman in the White House." She beat 79 other entrants in the contest, which was judged by voters casting their ballots on the Web site.
As to whether the pair will meet again, that is an open question; Ms. Santore confessed to having a live-in boyfriend. But if she is not available, there are other finalists who may qualify. Among them is "Lucy," who is 48, a Unitarian Universalist clergywoman from Connecticut and a first cousin of a Kucinich campaign rival, Howard Dean.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Dennis J. Kucinich sharing breakfast yesterday with Gina Marie Santore. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); POLITICS (78%); FUNDRAISING (70%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (68%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (67%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); SHERIFFS (64%); WEB SITES (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Contests and Prizes

PERSON: DENNIS KUCINICH (93%) Dennis J (Repr) Kucinich; Gina Marie Santore; Sheryl Gay Stolberg

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2003 



325 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Bush Expects Repayment If U.S. Was Overcharged
President Bush said that he expected Halliburton to have to repay $61 million if the company is found by the Pentagon to have overcharged the government by that amount on a contract to deliver fuel to Iraq.
 A day after the Pentagon said it had evidence that Halliburton failed to get a reasonable price for the fuel from a subcontractor in Kuwait and passed the inflated price along to American taxpayers, Mr. Bush said the Defense Department was doing a good job of investigating the matter. Page A1. 

Stocks Continue to Increase
Stocks continued to climb. The Nasdaq composite index rose 6.68 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,949. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 2.93 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,074.14. The Dow Jones industrial average closed above the 10,000 milestone for a second day, gaining 34.00 points, to 10,042.16. C4.

Shares of the International Steel Group rose 26 percent, to $35.20, in their first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. C4.

Sales of Flu Spray Gain
FluMist, the nasal spray influenza vaccine made by MedImmune, is gaining sales as the flu shot becomes less available. A14.

Inflation Accelerating in China
Rising food prices pushed inflation in China to its fastest pace in more than six years during the 12 months through November, Chinese agencies said. C3.

Parmalat Pays Off a Bond
Parmalat, the Italian dairy giant that had teetered near a default all week, took a step back from the brink, saying that it paid off a bond of 150 million euros ($183 million) that had come due on Monday. C3.

Boeing Set to Approve New Jet
The board of Boeing will meet Sunday and Monday to approve the marketing of the new 7E7 commercial jet. The 7E7 would be the company's first significant jet program since it began work on the 777 in 1990, and its third try this decade at developing a new aircraft. The 7E7 base and stretch aircraft would carry 200 to 250 passengers. Boeing's new chief executive, Harry C. Stonecipher, above, has already expressed approval of the program. C2.

Coke to Buy Back $2 Billion in Stock
Coca-Cola plans to buy back at least $2 billion in stock next year, increasing its share repurchase plan by a third as rising sales and a falling dollar help profit. C4.

Pfizer Limits Canadian Sales
Pfizer tightened limits on sales of its products to Canadian pharmacies in an effort to reduce imports by United States consumers. Some Americans buy medicines from Canada, where controls keep prices lower. C2.

Confidence Rises in Japan
The Bank of Japan's quarterly survey of 8,200 businesses showed that managers at the country's largest manufacturers were their most confident in more than six years. C3.

China Life Raises $3 Billion
China Life Insurance raised $3 billion in an initial public offering by selling 6.47 billion shares, about a quarter of the company. C3.

Saturn and Workers Reach a Deal
The Saturn unit of General Motors and the United Auto Workers reached a tentative agreement on a contract covering about 6,000 workers in Tennessee and Michigan. C14.

Consumer Confidence Weakens
Consumer confidence weakened unexpectedly this month, while wholesale prices dipped 0.3 percent in November as food, energy and automotive costs all tumbled, and the trade deficit grew to $41.77 billion in October. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,042.16 up 34.00Nasdaq composite -- 1,949.00 up 6.6810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.24% up 0.01The euro -- $1.2288 up 0.99The dollar -- 107.68 yen down 0.31 Graph tracks weekly closes of Nasdaq Composite since January 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); BONDS (89%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (83%); US DOLLAR (76%); FOOD PRICES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); VACCINES (68%); ANTIVIRALS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); PHARMACIES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (82%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); PFIZER INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); ARCELORMITTAL STEEL USA INC (55%); MEDIMMUNE INC (55%); PARMALAT SPA (54%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); BANK OF JAPAN (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (82%); BAB (BRU) (82%); BA (NYSE) (82%); ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFEB (BRU) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); PLT (BIT) (54%); KO (NYSE) (51%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (82%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (55%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (55%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (54%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (54%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); IRAQ (91%); KUWAIT (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003



326 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Angola's Oil Profits 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Can Profits Promote Democracy in Africa?," by Daphne Eviatar (Op-Ed, Dec. 4):
 While Angola faces many challenges as a result of 30 years of civil war, the government is committed to improving the lives of its citizens and is taking tangible steps to reform its economy. 
 This year, the government will increase social spending to 33 percent of the total budget.
The government has made public an executive summary of an analysis of the Angolan oil sector requested by the International Monetary Fund. Angola has also committed to joining a British initiative to improve accountability among oil-producing countries.
The embassy recently invited nongovernment organizations to participate in a dialogue on human rights, democratization and development challenges facing Angola. In addition, the government is developing a poverty-reduction strategy paper in coordination with the World Bank.

JOSEFINA PITRA DIAKITE
Ambassador of Angola
Washington, Dec. 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); BUDGETS (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ETHICS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%) Ethics; Foreign Aid; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: Josefina Pitra (Amb) Diakite; Daphne Eviatar

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA (98%); AFRICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%) Angola

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



327 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 885 words

PERSON: Lloyd E. Rigler 

HEADLINE: Lloyd E. Rigler, 88, Industrialist and Backer Of a Variety of Arts Groups Across the U.S. 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Lloyd Eugene Rigler, a California industrialist and investor whose arts philanthropy ranged from music in Los Angeles to ballet in his native Northern Plains, from the New York City Opera to public television, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88.
 His death was announced by the Rigler-Deutsch Foundation in Hollywood, of which he was president, and the New York City Opera, of which he was vice chairman. 
 He was also the founder of Classic Arts Showcase, an eclectic television service that distributes performing arts films at no cost to public television stations, and of the American Association for Single People, which fights for the economic rights of the unmarried. Mr. Rigler, who built a fortune with Adolph's Meat Tenderizer as its foundation, started as a salesman during the Depression. His connection with television also started early, with the 1939-40 New York World's Fair, at which he demonstrated R.C.A.'s new television technology to astonished audiences. 
He and a partner, Lawrence E. Deutsch, who joined him in making Adolph's Meat Tenderizer a national brand, began their philanthropy modestly, in the early 1950's, when they formed the Lloyd E. Rigler-Lawrence E. Deutsch Foundation.
The foundation was an innovative venture that helped make the matching funds concept a powerful fund-raising tool. Their foundation contributed to the creation of the Los Angeles Music Center and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington. 
Mr. Deutsch died in 1977 and willed his holdings to the foundation; until his own death, Mr. Rigler oversaw its allocations, many of them to arts groups to the arts in the United States, typically making its funds available to recipients who could raise funds to match the foundation's grants. 
Beneficiaries also included medical research in H.I.V. and hearing-loss programs; Free Arts for Abused Children, Amnesty International, Greenpeace and the American Civil Liberties Union. Significant contributions went to the Los Angeles County Museum of Arts, the American Ballet Theater, the Joffrey Ballet and the refurbishing of Carnegie Hall.
His Classic Arts Showcase, started in 1994, shows archival and contemporary film clips from all over the world, made available via satellite to an estimated 50 million homes. With its scenes from opera, ballet and early television, it has been called MTV for classical music fans. The programming is made available without commercials around the clock. Its programming is shown in New York on CUNY-TV and on Channel 25, WNYE-TV.
Lloyd Rigler was born in Lehr, N.D., and grew up in his parents' general store, which served a large farming community. By 11 he ran his own counter selling gift items and greeting cards.
He moved in with relatives in Chicago and sold electric irons and shoes, saving enough money to go to the University of Illinois and graduate in 1939. That fall he headed for New York to try his luck in the theater. He was sidetracked by day jobs like selling Waring blenders and then promoting television sets and records. He spent World War II in the Navy in the United States. After the war, he met Mr. Deutsch, then manager of a cleaners, when he rented warehouse space above the store. Mr. Deutsch had previously worked backstage at the New York City Opera.
The two men went into business as Rigler & Deutsch Food Brokers. At a restaurant in Santa Barbara, Calif., they met the chef and owner, Adolph Rempp, and learned about his meat tenderizer.
They represented Mr. Rempp as food brokers and in 1948 bought his recipe and the name. In 1950 they formed Adolph's Ltd. The brand had become known worldwide by the time they sold it in 1974 to Chesebrough-Ponds, later part of Lever Brothers and Unilever Best Foods.
The foundation took off after the sale of Adolph's. The partners helped the new Los Angeles Opera, of which Mr. Deutsch was president, bring the New York City Opera to the Los Angeles Music Center, where it performed regularly for 16 seasons.
They also began one of the most extensive collections and listings of voice recordings, going back to the first Edison cylinder. The result was the Rigler & Deutsch Index of Recorded Sound.
Their own fabled collection of rare music, including manuscripts signed by Beethoven, letters by Wagner and a first edition of a Mozart opera, was lost in 1992 in a fire that gutted the foundation's headquarters in Burbank.
Mr. Rigler was on the board of the Los Angeles Philharmonic for 20 years and was also on the board of the City Center of Music and Drama in New York. He was co-chairman of the City Opera board until the long cross-country commute prompted him to become vice chairman.
He supported the Spectrum Institute in the cause of domestic partnerships, then founded the American Association of Single People in 1999 to assist unmarried Americans facing unequal treatment in the marketplace or by the Internal Revenue Service.
Mr. Rigler's survivors include a sister, Audre Estrin of Portland, Ore.; his nephew James Rigler of Los Angeles, vice president of the foundation and producer of Classic Arts Showcase; and his friend Steven Davis, of Manhattan and Los Angeles.
His nephew said Mr. Rigler made sure, not long before his death, that the Classic Arts Showcase broadcasts would continue at least through 2022.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lloyd E. Rigler in 1999. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); BALLET (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); FILM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (62%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (51%); CHILD ABUSE (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Philanthropy 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



328 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 822 words

PERSON: Heydar Aliyev 

HEADLINE: H.A. Aliyev, K.G.B. Officer And Azeri Leader, 80, Dies 

BYLINE:  By PAUL LEWIS

 BODY:
Heydar Aliyev, a former Soviet secret police general who for 30 years ruled his native Azerbaijan with an iron fist, first as its Communist leader, then as elected president after independence, died yesterday at a clinic in Cleveland, where he had been treated for congestive heart failure since early August. His death was confirmed by Tahir Taghi-Zadeh, a political counsellor at Azerbaijan's embassy in Washington, Reuters reported.
 Mr. Aliyev was 80. 
 His authoritarian rule was characterized by contradictory trends. While it undoubtedly brought a measure of stability to Azerbaijan, political life remained turbulent, with frequent reports of coup and assassination attempts against Mr. Aliyev and equally frequent complaints by his opponents about electoral malpractice, human rights abuses and a muzzled press.
Above all Mr. Aliyev failed to secure a lasting settlement to the long-simmering rebellion in the ethnic Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, though in recent years the violence there has faded.
In 1994 his government signed a major oil-exploration agreement with a consortium of foreign oil companies lead by British Petroleum, which brought a welcome injection of investment capital into the country. 
But little of the money trickled down to the largely impoverished population of about eight million. Oil production currently stands at only 315,000 barrels a day, although the consortium plans to raise this to 1.4 million by 2009. Living standards have declined since the end of Soviet rule, and in 2001, the World Bank estimated that the average Azeri earned just $650 a year.
Outside the oil sector, a climate of widespread corruption, cronyism and administrative incompetence damaged economic prospects. Transparency International, an anticorruption watchdog, lists Azerbaijan as the seventh most corrupt nation of the 102 surveyed.
An extravagant personality cult was another feature of Mr. Aliyev's rule. His portrait decorated towns and villages. Workers were bused to rallies in his honor. A star and a mountain were named after him. Three museums were built to record his accomplishments.
He used the leverage of this personality cult to arrange for the election of his son, Ilham, who succeeded him as president in October, the first dynastic transfer of power in the former Soviet Union. 
In addition to Ilham, Mr. Aliyev is survived by a daughter and six grandchildren. His wife, Zarifa Aziz Aliyeva, died in 1985. 
Officially, Heydar Alirza Aliyev was born on May 10, 1923, in Nakhichevan, a strip of Azerbaijan territory separated from the rest of the country by Armenia. But opponents claimed he was older and was really born in Armenia.
Mr. Aliyev joined the Azerbaijan K.G.B., or secret police, in 1944. Helped by friendships with Leonid I. Brezhnev, then a rising politician, and with the head of the K.G.B., Yuri V. Andropov, Mr. Aliyev rose to become a general in 1960 and vice chairman in 1964.
By 1969 he had been promoted to first secretary of the Central Committee of the Ajerbaijan Communist Party, in effect the leader of the country.
During the 1970's Mr. Aliyev also began to climb the Moscow power ladder, becoming a full member of the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist Party in 1971 and a candidate member of the Politburo in 1976. He supported the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 and was rewarded with several Orders of Lenin.
In 1982 Mr. Aliyev became a full member of the Soviet Politburo and first deputy prime minister.
He supported Mikhail S. Gorbachev's successful bid for the top Soviet job in 1985. But the two men fell out over Mr. Gorbachev's anticorruption drive, and in 1987 Mr. Aliyev was charged with dishonesty, ousted from the Politburo and removed as party leader in Azerbaijan.
In 1990 Mr. Aliyev returned to Nakhichevan, where he remained highly popular because of the aid he had showered on the region while in office, and started the scramble back to power. He was quickly elected to the local parliament. 
Mr. Aliyev resigned from the Communist Party in 1991 when the Soviet Union collapsed and Azerbaijan achieved independence under the leadership of Ayaz Mutalibov.
In 1992 Mr. Mutilabov was ousted after military reverses in Nagorno-Karabakh. But his successor, Yakub Mamedov, did no better and was also removed. Abulfaz Elchibey was then elected president but lasted no longer, allowing Mr. Aliyev to seize the presidency and then win popular endorsement in an election in 1993.
Years of political turmoil followed, marked by attempted coups, constant friction between the government and the opposition, and tension with Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh. A new constitution, approved in 1995, strengthened the president's powers and made Azeri the official language.
In 1998 Mr. Aliyev was re-elected with an overwhelming majority, though most opposition parties boycotted the voting and the Council of Europe said it did not meet international standards.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heydar Aliyev with his son, Ilham, in 1999 in Baku, Azerbaijan. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); TRENDS (76%); COUPS (75%); ASSASSINATION (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); OIL EXPLORATION (72%); OIL EXTRACTION (72%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (72%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); POOR POPULATION (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); HEART DISEASE (57%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (54%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Politics and Government

COMPANY: BP PLC (55%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (55%); BP (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

Paul Lewis

GEOGRAPHIC: AZERBAIJAN (95%); ARMENIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) Azerbaijan

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



329 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 718 words

PERSON: Rev. Dr. Carl Ferdinand Howard Henry 

HEADLINE: Rev. Dr. Carl F. H. Henry, 90, Brain of Evangelical Movement 

BYLINE:  By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
The Rev. Dr. Carl F. H. Henry, a theologian who helped move evangelical Christianity from the sidelines to a central place in American religion, died on Sunday in Watertown, Wis. He was 90.
 Dr. Henry's death was announced on Monday by Christianity Today, a magazine he once served as founding editor. 
 In more than 40 books he wrote or edited, Dr. Henry laid out an intellectual defense both for a literal understanding of Scripture and for the imperative of spreading the faith. 
David Neff, the current editor of Christianity Today, said in an interview, "If we see Billy Graham as the great public face and generous spirit of the evangelical movement, Carl Henry was the brains."
Dr. Henry helped start several of the institutional pillars of the evangelical movement: Fuller Theological Seminary, where he was the first acting dean, and the National Association of Evangelicals, in addition to Christianity Today.
Carl Ferdinand Howard Henry was born in New York to a Roman Catholic mother and a Lutheran father, German immigrants who never "worked at their religion," he said. At 20, Dr. Henry was editing The Smithtown Star on Long Island when a young evangelist took an interest in him.
"He told me aboutChrist as we drove around Long Island in my battered old Chevy," Dr. Henry said in an interview with The New York Times in 1966. "I knelt in the back of that car and dedicated myself to Jesus Christ. Life has not been the same since." 
He decided to attend Wheaton College in Illinois. He joined a stellar class that included Billy Graham and Richard C. Halverson, who later served 14 years as chaplain of the United States Senate. he also met Helga Bender, whom he married in 1940. He was ordained a Baptist minister and earned two doctorates, in theology from Northern Baptist Theological Seminary and in philosophy from Boston University. 
By the 1940's, fundamentalist Christianity was in retreat. Many fundamentalists were isolating themselves from society and focusing instead on building churches and families untarnished by mainstream culture. Though Dr. Henry held beliefs that was just as orthodox as theirs, he and some peers avoided calling themselves fundamentalists. He said he believed the term had become discredited, "associated with a pugnacious temperament." Instead, they preferred the term "neo-evangelical." 
Dr. Henry came to prominence in 1947 with his book "The Uneasy Conscience of Modern Fundamentalism." He argued that Christians needed to assert themselves, not withdraw, and to inspire others to turn to Christ not by coercion but by example.
"That was a turning point in the church," Charles W. Colson said in an interview. Mr. Colson, who was sent to prison for his role in the Watergate cover-up, went on to found Prison Fellowship Ministries. 
"What he did was to reawaken the evangelical heritage of the 19th century, when Christians were engaged in great intellectual debates and had incredible social involvement," Mr. Colson said.
From 1956 to 1968, Dr. Henry was editor of Christianity Today, a journal started by Mr. Graham as a conservative counterpoint to the more liberal magazine Christian Century. 
For the magazine's 10th anniversary, he and Mr. Graham convened the World Congress on Evangelism in Berlin, attended by 1,200 evangelists from around the world. 
In 1974, he began traveling abroad on behalf of World Vision International, a Christian relief and development organization. He taught at several universities and in 1983 completed a six-volume work, "God, Revelation and Authority." 
Dr. Henry is survived by his wife; his daughter, Carol Henry Bates; three sisters, Eleanor Schortemeyer, Isabella Elliott and Johanna Albert; and four grandchildren. His son, Representative Paul B. Henry, Republican of Michigan, died in 1993.
In later years, Dr. Henry quietly criticized some of the same institutions he had helped establish for going too far to accommodate contemporary cultural and political trends. 
"The clergy," he once said, "have neither a divine mandate nor authority nor special competence to articulate particular programs of politico-economic action and when they pronounce their fallible ideas with presumptive piety they encourage public doubt about the church's possession of an authentic word of God in the theological and moral realm."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Dr. Carl Ferdinand Howard Henry, about 1968. (Photo by Fabian Bachrach, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (99%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); FAMILY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF EVANGELICALS (56%)

Laurie Goodstein

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Religion 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



330 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dow Pushes a Little Bit Farther Above the 10,000 Mark

BYLINE:  The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average closed above the 10,000 milestone for a second day yesterday as investors shrugged off a downbeat report on consumer sentiment to push stocks higher.
 Generally strong economic news, comments from the Federal Reserve suggesting interest rates were unlikely to rise in the near future and positive corporate outlooks helped keep the Dow index of 30 actively traded industrial stocks in the positive range for the third consecutive week. 
 "The real resistance level now will be 10,150," said Tim Smalls, a trader at SG Cowen Securities. "People are still very skeptical after losing money over the last four years, but this market is slowly winning them over." 
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 34.00 points, or 0.3 percent, at 10,042.16. That extended the index's gains from Thursday, when it closed above the 10,000 mark for the first time in 18 months, largely on the news about interest rates and a strong retail sales report for November.
 The broader market gauges also closed modestly higher. The Nasdaq composite index rose 6.68 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,949.00. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 2.93 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,074.14.
 Wall Street welcomed a government report that wholesale prices declined more than expected, suggesting inflation remains well under control, and appeared unconcerned about news that the trade deficit had widened slightly. Stocks stumbled a bit after a survey by the University of Michigan said consumer confidence was on the wane, but they pushed higher by the end of the session.
 The university's preliminary report for December was said to have shown a sharp decrease in consumer sentiment, to 89.6 from 93.7 in November. Analysts had expected a reading of 96.
 The Labor Department reported a 0.3 percent drop in the Producer Price Index, which measures prices of goods before they reach store shelves. Economists had forecast a 0.1 percent rise. The reading supported the idea that the economic recovery is not fanning inflation, and bolstered hopes that interest rates would stay low.
 The Commerce Department said the trade deficit soared to $41.77 billion in October. The preference of shoppers for imports hit a record high, offsetting a sizable gain in exports, including the best showing for sales of farm products in seven years. The October trade imbalance was up 1 percent from a September deficit of $41.34 billion and was the biggest deficit in five months.
 Still, there were signs that investors were not sure the gains would hold through the holiday season. Wal-Mart Stores lost 31 cents, to end the day at $52.50.
 AT&T fell 64 cents, to $18.98, after lowering the revenue outlook for its business services unit, citing pricing pressures. The company said it would adopt an aggressive strategy to fight competition.
 Advancers included Coca-Cola, which gained 98 cents, to $49.37, after it told analysts it was "poised for a strong year" in 2004. The company forecast long-term growth in earnings per share of 11 percent to 12 percent, and expects cash from operations to remain strong next year.
 General Motors rose 86 cents, to $49.79, after saying it expects its United States hourly and salaried pension plans to be nearly fully financed by the end of 2003. The news means G.M. will probably not have to make more cash contributions to the plans until at least 2010, based on planned additional contributions this year and normal asset returns.
 United Technologies gained $2.33, to $91.60, after it forecast revenue and earnings growth of 10 percent for next year, thanks in part to the economic recovery and several acquisitions. The maker of Pratt & Whitney jet engines, Sikorsky helicopters and Otis elevators said it was on track to meet its 2003 earnings goals.
Treasury prices were mixed. The 10-year Treasury note declined 4/32, to a price of 100 2/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.24 percent from 4.23 percent on Thursday.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 2/32, to 104 4/32. The bond's yield was unchanged at 5.10 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); EXPORT PRICES (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Interest Rates

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



331 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Drops, But So Do Wholesale Prices 

BYLINE:  Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Consumer confidence weakened unexpectedly as the holiday shopping season swung into gear, but bargains should abound after a surprise drop in November wholesale prices, reports on Friday indicated.
 Another report showed that the United States trade gap widened in October as imports surged to a record level, reflecting strong demand in the recovering economy. 
 Treasury bond prices rose and the dollar fell on the reports, which suggested the Federal Reserve could hold interest rates at historically low levels for a long time.
 The University of Michigan's preliminary reading of consumer sentiment fell to 89.6 in December from 93.7 in November, according to the report. Economists had forecast a rise to 96.0. 
 "It's pretty ugly," said Cary Leahey, senior United States economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York.
 The unexpected decline cast doubt on the strength of consumer spending during the holiday season, although in recent years there has not been a strong connection between measures of confidence and actual retail sales.
 A separate report showed that wholesale prices dipped in November as food, energy and automotive costs all tumbled, suggesting consumers are not likely to see sharply higher prices anytime soon.
 The Producer Price Index, which measures prices paid to farms, factories and refineries, dropped 0.3 percent, the Labor Department said. The so-called core index, which strips out volatile food and energy costs, slid 0.1 percent -- the first decline since June.
 Wall Street had expected a 0.1 percent rise in producer prices over all and a steady reading excluding food and energy.
 "The decline by the P.P.I. over all and the dip by the core P.P.I. is very much consistent with the general absence of inflation risks," said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service in New York. 
 The Fed on Tuesday held overnight borrowing costs at 1 percent, the lowest level since 1958, and said low inflation and plenty of economic slack meant rates could stay down for "a considerable period."
 Minutes from a Fed meeting in October released on Thursday showed policy makers expected inflation to stay under wraps through 2004 and possibly beyond.
 Wholesale energy prices fell a sharp 1.2 percent last month, the biggest decline since May, as gasoline dropped 4.8 percent. Prices for natural gas and heating oil also fell.
 Food prices also moved lower as a sharp rise in beef and veal prices in October was partly reversed.
 Car prices, which had climbed sharply in October when new vehicle models were introduced, fell 0.8 percent. But prices for sport utility vehicles and other light trucks posted another sharp rise.
 Producer prices are up just 0.5 percent over the last 12 months, suggesting rising commodity prices are more likely to pinch profits than to drive up consumer inflation. 
 A report Friday from the Commerce Department said the trade deficit grew to $41.77 billion in October as an import surge overcame the effect of rising exports, which hit their highest level in 31 months.
 The trade gap, on track to hit a record this year, was close to what Wall Street had expected.
 Reflecting stronger demand, imports climbed 2.1 percent in October, to a record $129.7 billion, as imports from China, the European Union and Latin America hit new highs.
 Exports leapt 2.6 percent in October, to $88 billion, the highest level since March 2001.
 The politically important trade deficit with China hit a record $13.6 billion as imports of $16.4 billion dwarfed exports to China of $2.9 billion. The gap with China for the first 10 months of 2003 totaled $103.3 billion, nearly matching the annual record set last year.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Producer Prices"Index of finished goods prices, 1982 = 100. Seasonally adjusted. Nov.: -0.3%Oct.: +0.8Sept.: +0.3 Chart shows index of finished goods prices since June 2002. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart: "Balance of Trade"The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Oct. 2003 Balance: -$ 41.77Imports: 129.73Exports: 87.96 Graph tracks imports and exports since May 2002. Graph tracks deficit (12-month moving average) since May 2002. (Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); WHOLESALE PRICES (92%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (83%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); FOOD PRICES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); BONDS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); HEATING OIL (74%); BEEF (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); HEATING OIL PRICES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); NEW CAR MODELS (65%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Producer Price Index; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) University of Michigan; Labor Department (US); Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



332 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Few Indications Efforts to Cut Blackout Risks Are Under Way 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Four months after last summer's blackout, no one can say if other companies are prone to errors like those by a utility and a grid operator in the Midwest that Federal investigators say caused the Northeast to go dark -- or, for that matter, what has been done around the country to cut the risk of another blackout.
 In contrast to plane crashes, nuclear plant accidents, stock market crashes and even nightclub fires -- events that typically send regulators far beyond the site of the problem in search of ways to prevent similar disasters -- the blackout of Aug. 14 has not led to any widespread governmental examination of the state of the electric system across the country. 
 Officials say they lack the authority or expertise, and many experts in the electric industry are skeptical that problems of the kind that caused the August blackout are being found and fixed.
 "I do not think that we have done anything structurally that will give us any better degree of confidence that everybody is doing the right thing," said Jose M. Delgado, the president and chief executive of the American Transmission Company, a three-year-old nonprofit concern that operates most of the transmission lines in Michigan. 
 Mr. Delgado, citing the way the August blackout cascaded over thousands of square miles, said that it was important for every company on the grid to monitor its systems properly and operate conservatively, because any problem could snowball far beyond the guilty party's territory. 
"There's no such thing as falling down by yourself," he said. "We all fall down if you fall down."
 But in contrast to, say, the Federal Aviation Administration or the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, federal energy officials say that they have hardly any ability to check in advance on the preparedness of companies using the grid. The North American Electric Reliability Council, a voluntary organization founded after the 1965 blackout to prevent recurrences and fend off government regulation, promulgates standards and could probably audit companies to assure they meet them. But it lacks the resources, its executives say.
 In October, the council sent a letter to its 167 members, asking them to describe how they manage voltage, ensure reliable communications with their neighbors, handle the failure of control systems, train for emergencies, and keep the trees under their power lines trimmed-- all factors that contributed to the Aug. 14 blackout. The responses are due on Monday. As of Friday, 55 had sent answers, but the council said it would not disclose the contents until it had more answers in hand to avoid drawing undue attention to the power companies that did their homework first.
 But experts acknowledge the difference between asking a company whether it could suffer a failure and sending in outsiders to answer the same question. "The rigor is different," said Ellen P. Vancko, a spokeswoman for the council. The council's board is scheduled to meet in February, she said, and the question of more thorough audits would probably come up then.
 Some experts suspect that no matter how well the companies say they do, shortcomings will be widespread. 
Mark P. Mills, a partner in Digital Power Capital, a venture capital fund that invests in electric technologies, said that the failings identified at the Ohio utility, FirstEnergy, and the entity that was supposed to oversee it, the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, known as MISO, were not hard to cure. 
But, Mr. Mills said, such failings are "nearly endemic" in the power business.
 "In this environment we've created in the last decade, utilities don't invest in expensive things," he said, noting that the scrimping has cut reliability as electricity becomes ever more important to the economy.
 In fact, the regions that lost power on Aug. 14 were using twice as much electricity per person as was used during the November 1965 blackout. 
 Last summer, Congressional leaders said that the August blackout would give added impetus to passage of a wide-ranging energy bill then working its way through the House and Senate. That bill included a provision that would have made mandatory the standards set by the private North American Electric Reliability Council. But the Senate did not pass the bill, because of disputes over other provisions.
 The legislation would let the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which mostly oversees economic matters in the power business, designate the council to set enforceable regulations. With no energy bill, the FERC chairman, Pat Wood, recently asked his staff to determine if the commission could establish such rules without Congressional action. But it is far from clear that it can.
Many consumer advocates would favor a more vigorous assessment of the grid's health. "Utilities should be subject to mandatory reporting requirements and inspection of their key control equipment," Jeffrey L. Small, the assistant consumers' counsel in Ohio, testified on Dec. 4 at a hearing of the joint United States-Canada task force investigating the blackout. Ohio regulators are trying to fill the gap; they have ordered FirstEnergy to submit a "deficiency report" by March 1, stating how it will improve its system. 
But Alan Schriber, the chairman of the Public Utility Commission of Ohio and a member of the task force, said at the Dec. 4 hearing in Cleveland that his state did not have the expertise to cut through all the "techno-babble" and analyze the company's response to the Aug. 14 failures on its own. And state officials added that the commission had no authority over MISO, which was supposed to oversee FirstEnergy. 
In the meantime, there are no plans for a continentwide look at the grid. Representative Edward J. Markey, a senior Democratic member of the House Energy Committee, is comparing the situation to a person watching a friend in poor shape who suffers a heart attack.
 "They're supposed to learn vicariously from this experience," Mr. Markey said. "But there won't be any visit by the doctor to other utilities, with the set of prescriptive protections which they have to build in, in order to avoid a similar fate." 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day last Saturday about actions taken by the electric power industry since the August blackout misstated the coverage area and structure of the American Transmission Company, whose chief executive expressed skepticism that problems are being found and fixed. It operates power lines in parts of Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, not most of Michigan. It is a commercial company, not a nonprofit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (77%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (71%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); VOLUNTEERS (66%); CIVIL AVIATION (64%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); AUDITS (61%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); FIRES (56%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TRANSMISSION CO LLC (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (68%)

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



333 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Protest Use of Liberty Bonds for Power Plant 

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
A group of Democratic lawmakers yesterday denounced New York State's offer to a Massachusetts-based energy company of $400 million in tax-exempt Liberty Bonds, which are intended to revive Lower Manhattan after the attack on the World Trade Center.
 A state-run agency administering the Liberty Bond program announced on Thursday that it had awarded the bonds to Astoria Energy to help finance the 1,000-megawatt power plant it seeks to build in Astoria, Queens. 
 Several elected officials gathered at a news conference on the steps of City Hall and criticized Gov. George E. Pataki and the agency, the New York Liberty Development Corporation, for what they called an illegal use of the Liberty Bond program. They said there were already too many power plants in western Queens, where some groups blame them for an unusually high rate of respiratory illnesses in the area. 
An economic development official said yesterday that the use of the bonds for the plant was appropriate and that it would provide New York with needed energy.
Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democrat representing the East Side and much of western Queens, called the decision "Liberty Bond pork barrel."
"These bonds were clearly designed for 9/11-related recovery," she said.
Ms. Maloney said she had written to Mr. Pataki requesting that he reverse the decision.
Michael Gianaris, a Democrat representing Astoria in the State Assembly, called it a "a stunning act of hypocrisy" by the governor to award the bonds to Astoria Energy. 
He accused state officials of favoring Astoria Energy, a subsidiary of SCS Energy, of Concord, Mass., and using the Liberty Bond program as "a slush fund for the governor's friends."
A Queens power plant does not qualify as redeveloping Lower Manhattan, he said, and this "misuse" of hard-won federal aid would undermine future attempts to get federal aid for New York.
As part of a bill it passed in March 2002, Congress provided up to $8 billion in Liberty Bonds in 2002, which offer low-interest loans for major projects revitalizing Lower Manhattan after the Sept. 11 attacks.
A $2 billion portion of the bonds may be used for commercial projects outside of Lower Manhattan but within New York City. Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, said in an interview yesterday that Thursday's award fell under that provision, but Ms. Maloney said it was only for projects that included the creation of office space.
Mr. Gargano dismissed the criticism as politics and called the Astoria plant "a good project" before adding, "we have nothing to do with where it's located."
A spokesman for SCS Energy declined to comment yesterday, and Mr. Pataki's press office referred questions to the Empire State Development Corporation, which runs the Liberty Bond program.
Ms. Maloney quoted from a report by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation: "Public utility property and residential property located outside the zone cannot be financed with the bonds."
Other companies have caused concern by applying for Liberty Bonds, including Forest City Ratner, the development partner in the 52-story tower that The New York Times Company plans to construct on Eighth Avenue.
Councilman Peter F. Vallone Jr. of Queens and Betsy Gotbaum, the city's public advocate, also denounced the decision at the news conference, as did representatives of several neighborhood groups that oppose the project because they say it will further tax a neighborhood already overburdened with power plants.
Astoria Energy has had trouble attracting investors for the $850 million project. Earlier this year, state leaders helped get Con Edison to sign a 10-year contract to buy its electricity. Construction on the project, at a 23-acre site north of Steinway Street, is scheduled to begin by next summer and finish by 2006.
Western Queens attracts plants because of its access to river water and the presence of Con Edison substations for transmission. Four major companies operate power plants in western Queens generating half the city's load, said Ashok Gupta, an economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private conservation group.
"This new plant would not cause much more pollution," Mr. Gupta said. "New plants are 99 percent cleaner than older ones."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A state-run agency says it has offered $400 million in Liberty Bonds to help finance a power plant on this site in Astoria, Queens. The bonds were created to help finance the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan after Sept. 11. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) Map of Queens highlighting proposed power plant site: An energy company plans to build a 1,000-megawatt power plant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); HIJACKING (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TERRORISM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (55%) Electric Light and Power; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Factories and Industrial Plants; Electric Light and Power; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK LIBERTY (83%) Astoria Energy; New York Liberty Development Corporation

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (79%) Corey Kilgannon; Carolyn B (Rep) Maloney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



334 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Shares of International Steel Rise 26% in First Day of Trading 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The International Steel Group, the first United States steel company to hold an initial public share offering in seven years, rose 26 percent yesterday in its first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 The stock, sold under the ticker ISG, closed at $35.20 in trading of 14.9 million shares. 
International Steel, which is based in Richfield, Ohio, and is North America's second-largest steel maker, raised $462 million in its offering after increasing the number of shares offered and their price to $28 each. 
 The company, formed in April 2002 after the investor Wilbur Ross bought the mills of the bankrupt LTV Corporation, has benefited from higher steel prices, as well as import tariffs and a doubling in international shipping costs that kept overseas competitors away. 
"Steel industry fundamentals are going through the roof," said Jacob Doft, chief executive at Highline Capital Management, which bought 200,000 International Steel shares and plans to buy more. International Steel and U.S. Steel are "doing a good job of getting the most out of economic improvement."
Mr. Ross's private equity firm, W.L. Ross & Company, created International Steel after it bought LTV's mills and later the assets of the Acme Steel Corporation and the Bethlehem Steel Corporation. In the nine months ended Sept. 27, the company had a net loss of $48.5 million on sales of $2.65 billion, according to a prospectus. 
Goldman Sachs and UBS managed the share sale, sharing fees of $30 million with Bear Stearns, J.P. Morgan Chase and CIBC World Markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); NEW ISSUES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); BONDS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL STEEL USA INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); W L ROSS & CO LLC (83%); LTV CORP (70%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (67%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (54%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL STEEL GROUP ; International Steel Group

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (92%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



335 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Parmalat Pays Off a Bond, Dodging a Bullet for Now

BYLINE:  By ERIC SYLVERS

DATELINE: MILAN, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Parmalat, the Italian dairy giant that had teetered near a default all week, took a step back from the brink on Friday, saying that it paid off a bond of 150 million euros ($183 million) that had come due on Monday.
 In its short statement announcing the bond repayment, Parmalat did not give any other information about its financial health. 
 It also did not disclose where it got the money for the bond payment. But Reuters reported that the company had received some of the funds in the form of an accelerated tax refund from the Economy Ministry. 
 Fears that Parmalat would run out of cash roiled the Italian stock market this week. On Tuesday and Wednesday, Standard & Poor's cut Parmalat's credit rating eight notches, from investment grade to two levels above default. 
On Friday, Standard & Poor's said that it would maintain its ratings on Parmalat despite the announcement about the bond payment. 
The rating status "reflects Standard & Poor's continuing efforts to determine why a group with reported liquidity of 3.7 billion euros excluding the Epicurum Fund had to delay the repayment of a 150 million euro bond," Hugues de La Presle, a Standard & Poor's credit analyst, said in a statement. 
 On Monday, Parmalat, which sells milk and food products in 30 countries, including the United States, said that it had not received a $589.9 million payment from Epicurum, a hedge fund based in the Cayman Islands. The payment was expected on Dec. 4. As a result, the company said it would not be able to repay a bond of 150 million euros that had come due Monday. The company had until this coming Monday before it would have been technically in default.
Shares of Parmalat, which fell nearly 50 percent on Thursday when they reopened for trading for the first time this week, were down 26 percent on Friday before the announcement about the bond payment. The shares recovered somewhat, but still ended down almost 15 percent.
 Parmalat's next big bond payment is June, when an issue of 100 million euros comes due. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); EURO (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); MILK (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); EUROBONDS (66%) Defaulting; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: PARMALAT SPA (91%)

ORGANIZATION: PARMALAT ; Parmalat Spa

TICKER: PLT (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (91%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (91%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (91%)

PERSON: Eric Sylvers

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



336 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Leader Asserts Taliban Insurgency Will Fail 

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL and DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
The growing Taliban insurgency in southern and eastern Afghanistan is alienating the population and will eventually fail, President Hamid Karzai said Friday in an interview at the presidential palace.
 Confident and at times combative, Mr. Karzai denied that parts of the country had become too dangerous for Afghan and foreign aid workers to enter. Popular support for the Taliban, he added, is fading. 
 "It's not working," he said, referring to the rising number of Taliban attacks that have killed 300 Afghans, including 100 policemen and 13 aid workers, this year. "It's working against them."
Sounding almost like the presidential candidate he will be if elections are held in Afghanistan as planned next year, Mr. Karzai said the country's situation had improved in the two years since he assumed the helm of a transitional administration. Despite threats, thousands of people participated in selecting the 500 delegates from around the country who gathered in Kabul this week for a historic constitutional convention, or loya jirga, he said.
"How come terrorism could not affect the participation of people in the elections of the loya jirga?" he asked. "How come they did not persuade them not to attend?" 
Mr. Karzai, who has been criticized for moving too slowly to exert his authority beyond Kabul, the capital, is at a defining moment in his two-year presidency. The debate over the next two weeks by the constitutional assembly will be one of the biggest tests of his approach and of his ability to persuade Afghans to adopt his vision for the country.
When Mr. Karzai took charge two years ago after the fall of the Taliban, the country was riven by ethnic and factional divisions, and heavily militarized after 20 years of war. He has held the government together and kept the peace by co-opting the powerful warlords and including members of all factions in the decision-making process. 
Yet parts of the country have become so insecure because of the Taliban insurgency that the United Nations special representative in Afghanistan, Lakhdar Brahimi, said on Friday that the organization might have to withdraw staff members. Human Rights Watch, meanwhile, criticized the loya jirga, citing reported cases of intimidation and buying of delegates so that the assembly will be dominated by the armed factional leaders and their proxies. 
Mr. Karzai, who brushed aside the criticism, is pushing a draft constitution that would provide for a strong presidency and a parliament whose powers would be limited mainly to approving the budget. Judges would be appointed by the president.
Mr. Karzai said he wanted to avoid the instability of a parliamentary system and what he described as "coalition governments built by armed gangs." If adopted, the constitution would pave the way for elections in June, and Mr. Karzai has already said he will run. 
In an unusual example of political brinkmanship, Mr. Karzai said he would not run for president if the convention adopted a parliamentary system with a prime minister as well as a president, as some delegates have said they want. 
"How can I be president for a system that I have said I don't believe in?" he said Friday. 
Mr. Karzai and his senior aides appeared confident that the draft constitution he is expected to present to the loya jirga this weekend will be passed without extensive alterations. Mr. Karzai described it as combination of democracy and Islam that was "suitable for the conditions in Afghanistan today."
It remained unclear how the debate would go. Some groups have criticized Mr. Karzai's plan as laying the groundwork for a possible dictatorship. Islamists may attack the proposed constitution for being too Westernized. And there is always the threat of disputes between the country's two largest ethnic groups, Pashtuns and Tajiks, over cultural issues like the language used in the Afghan national anthem.
Western diplomats have suggested that the measure will pass largely intact as presented by Mr. Karzai. That may be because discussions with the major factional leaders have been going on behind the scenes. Mr. Karzai denied reports of pre-assembly deals. "I've not done any deal with anybody," he said. 
Sitting in his ornately decorated office, where he received a steady stream of delegations of tribesmen from around the country, Mr. Karzai remained optimistic about the future. He admitted, however, that his views contradicted most news reports and even the United Nations assessment of the situation. 
He talked about the major achievements of the last year, including the reconstruction of the main Kabul-Kandahar highway, repair of a crucial tunnel and the opening of a university in Khost.
"You have zero percent inflation," he continued, listing economic accomplishments. "You have 30,000 Pakistanis working in Kabul. You have higher per capita income. You have surplus wheat. You have 30 percent growth. You have hundreds of homes coming up in Kandahar." 
Pressed on his government's reputed weak response to the Taliban insurgency, which many observers believe is gaining strength, especially in the south and southeast, Mr. Karzai insisted his government retained political control throughout the country.
"We are a weak administration because of a lack of resources and human resources," he said. "But politically the country is strongly united to see this country do better. That is not understood by the media, nor the United Nations." 
He agreed that security in parts of the country was too fragile for general elections to be held. "We have to work on that," he said. 
Another group of visitors representing a separate source of tension in the country visited the president on Friday: the families of nine children killed in a botched American air attack last weekend. 
In the interview, Mr. Karzai called on the United States military to review its use of air attacks to try to kill individual Taliban leaders. In the attack, American A-10 attack planes killed nine children and one adult when they struck the house of a former Taliban member in Ghazni Province in southern Afghanistan. 
"This has to be reconsidered, has to be re-evaluated thoroughly," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hamid Karzai, the Afghan president, spoke on the eve of a convention that will draw up a future government. (Photo by Hiromi Yasui for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (94%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); TERRORISM (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); APPROVALS (65%); BUDGETS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: Taliban (Afghan Group)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (93%) Carlotta Gall; David Rohde; Hamid (Pres) Karzai

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



337 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Natural Gas Prices Surge And Fingers Are Pointing 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Natural gas prices have surged nearly 50 percent since Thanksgiving despite an apparent lack of events that normally create such spikes, like tight supplies or forecasts of unusually cold weather.
 The frenzied climb in prices has led to calls for investigations by politicians and executives of gas-dependent industries into whether traders have improperly manipulated natural gas markets. 
 Companies in the chemical, fertilizer and ammonia industries that depend on natural gas as an essential ingredient for their products have been among the most vocal in their complaints about gas prices, which have soared to their highest level since February. 
"We're extremely alarmed by the events of the last several days," said Peter R. Huntsman, the chief executive of the Huntsman companies, a large manufacturer of chemical products. "If what is happening with natural gas would happen with crude oil, we'd have declared war on OPEC by now." 
High natural gas prices, if they are sustained, could cascade through the economy and result in higher heating and electricity costs for consumers, because gas is used by many power plants as the main fuel, analysts said. Natural gas, which has remained relatively expensive over the last year, rose 9 percent in the futures markets on Friday, to $7.22 per million British thermal units, compared with $4.93 at the end of November.
Several traders and analysts suggested that trading strategies at large hedge funds and other financial firms were behind much of the swift run-up in prices. Some funds were thought to have made large bets in the futures markets at the beginning of this month that the price of natural gas would fall below $5 per million B.T.U.'s. Pressure by funds that made opposite bets and a scarcity of other traders in the market could have subsequently caused prices to climb.
"There's a great deal of speculative froth at the moment," said Kyle Cooper, an energy futures analyst with Citigroup in Houston. 
Responding to calls for greater scrutiny of natural gas markets, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said on Friday that he would hold hearings next month into whether improper manipulation of natural gas markets was taking place. 
"Natural gas is so critical to U.S. consumers and the economy that if someone has been manipulating this market, they should go to jail," Mr. Hatch said in a statement. "I feel we must determine once and for all if these price surges are the result of market forces or if there continues to be price manipulation." 
Several large energy companies, including Duke Energy of Charlotte, N.C., and Dynegy Inc. of Houston, have recently paid millions of dollars in fines to settle federal charges that they tried to manipulate prices of natural gas contracts improperly. 
Mr. Cooper, like most other experts in the natural gas market, said there were few fundamental reasons for natural gas prices to climb so high in such a short period of time.
Natural gas inventories in the United States, for instance, stand at nearly three trillion cubic feet, or 7 percent above the level registered at this time last year. Natural gas stocks are also about 3 percent higher than the five-year average for such inventories, the Energy Information Administration said this week. 
R. David Gary, a spokesman for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which oversees and regulates trading of natural gas contracts, declined to say whether the commission had begun its own investigation of the increase in prices. But Mr. Gary did confirm that the commission had increased surveillance in recent days of large financial participants in the natural gas markets, standard procedure after such a wide price swing.
Executives at the New York Mercantile Exchange, which lists the benchmark Henry Hub natural gas futures contract among its products, insisted on Friday that they had not seen any unusual manipulation of natural gas prices. J. Robert Collins, the president of NYMEX, said much of the recent run-up in gas prices was related to lower investments in infrastructure, drilling and trading activities by energy companies since the collapse of Enron two years ago.
"I've seen nothing that would cause us to believe anything improper has been going on," Mr. Collins said. "Over the last couple of years there's been a massive exodus of capital from the industry that has caused the natural gas market to react with more volatility."
Natural gas, which accounts for about a quarter of the nation's energy needs, has remained relatively expensive during the last year as supplies tightened largely because the fuel, promoted as a cleaner-burning alternative to coal and oil, came under increasing demand to fire new electricity plants. 
Gas drilling has increased, mainly in the Rockies and in Texas, but much of it has come from fast-depleting wells. Imports of natural gas from Canada, meanwhile, have grown less reliable than in past years as demand for the fuel has also increased in that nation. The shortage resulted in a wave of layoffs and plant closings earlier this year at numerous chemical, ammonia and fertilizer companies that depend on natural gas as a basic component for their products.
"What's happening in natural gas markets has the very real potential to stop the manufacturing recovery in its tracks," said Greg Lebedev, president of the American Chemistry Council. "At the moment, the price of natural gas is serving as the single largest brake on the U.S. economy."
After stored supplies of natural gas fell to their lowest level in a quarter-century over the summer, inventories gradually recovered, easing concern about the possibility of a severe shortage. Still, the prospect of sustained higher prices for natural gas led the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, to call recently for increased imports of liquefied natural gas to avoid the potentially debilitating effect on the economy. 
Aside from the immediate effect higher gas prices might have on the chemical industry, it remains to be seen how they will affect the wider economy. Stephen Brown, director for energy economics at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said that electricity prices could climb in some parts of the country but that it depended on what type of contracts or hedging strategies individual power companies had in place to guarantee the delivery of natural gas at certain prices.
Analysts are expecting the volatility in the natural gas markets to continue next week. One analyst, Phil Flynn of the Alaron Trading Corporation in Chicago, predicted that the price of natural gas could climb as high as $13 per million B.T.U.'s this winter, or nearly double its current level, through a combination of speculative activity and concern over long-term supplies. 
"Quite literally we could be faced soon with the choice of paying more to keep the thermostat up high or getting our sweaters out," Mr. Flynn said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: New natural gas wells like this one in Michigan have helped increase supplies in the United States from lows during the summer. Demand for natural gas continues to rise, though, and the market remains tight. (Photo by Getty Images); Senator Orrin G. Hatch said he was planning hearings about the swings in the natural gas markets. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C2); (Photograph by Getty Images)(pg. C1) Chart: "A Sudden Spike"Natural gas prices have risen sharply over the last two weeks and volume in futures contracts has been unusually heavy on some days. Graph tracks natural gas prices since November 2003. TRADING VOLUMENear-month contracts for natural gas, in thousands; figures for last two trading days not available PRICECost, in dollars, of one million B.T.U.'s of natural gas. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (96%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); POLITICS (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); CHEMICALS MFG (76%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); FERTILIZERS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); ETHICS (60%) Gas (Fuel); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Ethics

COMPANY: DYNEGY INC (83%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%)

TICKER: DYN (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); DUK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%)

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (89%); PETER R HUNTSMAN (68%) Simon Romero; Orrin G (Sen) Hatch

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (71%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



338 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Wins Approval To Put Fiscal Proposal on Ballot 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Friday claimed the biggest victory of his young political career, when legislators approved a fiscal package that will be placed on the state ballot in March.
 Coming just a week after the governor and the lawmakers seemed locked in a hopeless standoff, the bipartisan vote on Friday allowed Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, to deliver on two of his major campaign promises: to end the partisan paralysis in Sacramento and to steer the state toward fiscal responsibility. 
 The package of changes does not resolve the coming year's looming budget problems, which include a shortfall of at least $14 billion that will require deep cuts in state spending, new taxes or both. It also does nothing about millions of dollars in cuts in state financing for cities and counties beginning this month as a result of Mr. Schwarzenegger's repeal of an increase in the state fee for vehicle licenses.
Instead, the package deals with past problems and tries to prevent future ones. It includes a bond to finance as much as $15 billion in debt that Mr. Schwarzenegger inherited when he took office last month, as well as a constitutional spending limit intended to prevent future overspending. It also forces lawmakers to put money aside each year to be drawn upon in bad economic times.
Though there is no certainty that voters will approve the changes, passage will be a priority for Mr. Schwarzenegger and leaders of the Democratic-controlled Legislature .
"Today, I am a happy governor, because this is a new day for California," Mr. Schwarzenegger said after legislators approved the package. "We are restoring order in our fiscal house. The recovery plan that I am about to sign, I'm very happy about because both parties came together. This was only possible because the Democrats and the Republicans worked closely together over the last two weeks."
The package of changes overwhelmingly passed the 40-member Senate on Friday, with only 5 members, all Republicans, voting against the spending limit and 12 members, also Republicans, voting against the bond measure. The package passed the Assembly by large margins on Thursday night.
"This bill begins the process of ensuring California lives within its means," said Senator James L. Brulte, the Republican leader.
Most Republican opposition was based on fears that Mr. Schwarzenegger had made too many concessions to the Democrats and that the package was not tough enough, particularly in limiting spending.
Mr. Schwarzenegger had originally sought a tight spending cap tied to population growth and per capita income, but instead settled for a looser formula that allows lawmakers to spend more in good times. Democrats had complained that the original proposal would cut too deeply into spending for education, health care and other social programs even when the state was flush with cash. 
Senator Tom McClintock, a conservative Republican from Thousand Oaks who ran unsuccessfully in the recall election, spoke against the package, but said he was saddened to have to cast a no vote.
"Let's be honest," Mr. McClintock said in a debate in the Senate. "This is nothing but a Trojan horse. Its facade is appealing, but it is pointless. But hidden inside of it is the power for one generation to pillage and plunder the future to pay for its own appetite."
Senator Sam Aanestad, a Republican from Nevada City, said he was angry that the Legislature had missed the opportunity for more meaningful reform.
"While the governor is blinking," Mr. Aanestad said, "this Legislature is winking."
But most legislators were more upbeat, describing the day as historic and insisting that it would never have happened just a few months ago, when Gray Davis, a Democrat, was governor and Democrats and Republicans barely spoke.
"I applaud the governor for his leadership and his efforts to break partisan gridlock by convincing members of the Republican caucus to work with us to craft this historic agreement," Assemblywoman Judy Chu, Democrat of Monterey Park, said. "This is a victory for Democrats, Republicans and, most importantly, the people of California."
But until a few days ago, many Democrats were complaining that Mr. Schwarzenegger's definition of compromise was overly rigid: namely, do it his way.
When legislators balked at his budget proposals last week, voting them down on Friday night, Mr. Schwarzenegger took to the stump. He complained about "overspending addicts" in the Legislature on conservative talk radio shows and denounced his critics during movie-star-like appearances at shopping malls across the state.
But unlike the spectacle that ended in failure last week, Mr. Schwarzenegger prevailed on Friday after taking an old-fashioned approach to politics: hammering out a compromise with talks late into the night around a big conference table.
"I think he figured out that scare tactics don't work," said Assemblywoman Jenny Oropeza, a Democrat who heads the Assembly's budget committee. "He has only been on the job a few weeks, I think he tested some things and figured out how it works. I am really hopeful that this bodes well on the budget next year."
There is no doubt that Mr. Schwarzenegger's bigger-than-life personality played a role in bringing Democrats and Republicans around the same table for three days running in a conference room adjoining his Capitol office. It was something that Mr. Davis was rarely able to do in five years on the job.
Many Republicans believe the governor's public relations blitz last week also played an indirect role by persuading members of both parties that Mr. Schwarzenegger was serious about not accepting "politics as usual" and was willing to play by new rules of his own.
And the deal would not have been possible without big concessions by Democrats, including a decision by the Democratic secretary of state, Kevin Shelley, to let slide last Friday's deadline for ballot measures to qualify for the March election.
But most of all, several legislators said, it was Mr. Schwarzenegger who took charge, putting aside division within his own staff on how much to bend and refusing, as he often said, to accept defeat as an option. It was when Mr. Schwarzenegger took personal control of the negotiations, meeting one night with Assembly Speaker Herb J. Wesson Jr. until 1:30 a.m., that the deadlock was broken, the legislators said.
"I applaud him that he chose to govern and decided he was going to put politics aside," said State Senator Gloria Romero of Los Angeles, chairwoman of the Senate Democratic caucus. "He got it. He got it fast."
Prof. Timothy Hodson, executive director of the Center for Governmental Studies at California State University at Sacramento, said that in making the budget deal Mr. Schwarzenegger had proved he was more than a clever entertainer.
"Being the most recognized actor in the world certainly has power," Professor Hodson said, "but there has to be a there there, and Schwarzenegger has demonstrated there is there there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, surrounded by legislative leaders, at the signing yesterday of a fiscal recovery package that will go before voters. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BONDS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%) Elections; Referendums; Government Bonds; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%) Dean E Murphy; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; California

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



339 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: THE MILITARY; 
General Says Cash and Arms Are Cut Off in Iraqi Hotbed

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: TIKRIT, Iraq, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
The United States general commanding operations in Saddam Hussein's ancestral homeland says that American forces have dealt a damaging blow to the insurgency in this pivotal region of Iraq in the past 30 days by choking off much of the guerrillas' financing and arms supplies. But he also acknowledges that the occupation still faces huge challenges, from suicide bombings to training and equipping new Iraqi police officers and militia members.
 The commander, Maj. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, who heads the Army's Fourth Infantry Division, said in an interview Thursday night that American operations had captured several important insurgent financiers in recent days, seized money stashed across the region to pay for weapons and attacks ($500 to conduct a strike and up to $3,000 to kill an American soldier) and stopped couriers smuggling in cash from outside Iraq. 
 Nearly $2 million in American currency was seized in Samarra this week. As a result, he said, attacks against American soldiers have dropped to an average of 6 a day from 22 a day a month ago.
"For the first time in the last 30 days, I truly feel we've gotten into their cycle of financing," General Odierno said at his headquarters here in one of Mr. Hussein's sprawling palace complexes. "We have indications they're having trouble financing attacks. There are indications that for the first time, they're having trouble getting their hands on weapons."
General Odierno said he could not say how long American troops would stay in Iraq. But he set out four specific conditions for their departure: creating a credible police force to maintain civil order, establishing an army to defend against external threats, forming an effective new government and eliminating the threat of insurgency by former Iraqi security forces.
"There's still a long way to go," said General Odierno, who refused to predict the length of the American military presence here.
Indeed, this city of 30,000 is struggling with a 50 percent unemployment rate, and General Odierno said the occupation authority must speed the process of Iraqi self-rule, hasten the pace of rebuilding the infrastructure and rid Iraqis of the intimidation imposed for more than three decades by Mr. Hussein's Baath Party.
General Odierno oversees military operations in a swath of Iraq the size of West Virginia just north of Baghdad, ranging from this Sunni bastion to the northern oil fields of Kirkuk to the Iranian border in the east. Success in this Sunni-dominated region could set an important model for the rest of the country, but the general said he was realistic about what American troops can and cannot accomplish here.
"We are not going to win hearts and minds in seven months," said General Odierno, a West Point graduate from Rockway, N.J. "They have been taught to hate Westerners for 35 years. They've been indoctrinated. But what we can do is try to show them that we can at least start them on the way to a better life. I think the majority of the people do want that."
General Odierno cautioned that the recent successes had driven loyalists to Mr. Hussein to change their tactics and begin carrying out high-profile suicide bombings against military and civilian targets. There were three such attacks on American bases this week. "It shows their desperation," he said.
Capturing or killing Mr. Hussein would be a huge step toward that goal. "It's psychological," General Odierno said. "I don't think he's really directing any of the operations, but I think he has a psychological effect. They fear him. They absolutely fear him. And there's a fear he might come back and suppress them."
An elite team of Special Operations Forces and Central Intelligence Agency operatives, called Task Force 121, is leading the hunt for Mr. Hussein and other top former Iraqi officials.
General Odierno said American forces believe that they had at least two close calls with the former Iraqi dictator in recent months. In a raid on a safe house in the Tikrit area this past summer, American forces said they learned from Iraqis they detained that Mr. Hussein had been there just eight hours earlier.
"Do I think he's operating in this area? Probably," General Odierno said. "Do I know if he's in this area? I don't. What I do know are his tribal connections here and his family connections here. The tribal and family connections are binding, and it's very tough to get inside them. But one day we will."
General Odierno continued: "I think he's moving around. Look at the quality of his tapes. Any one of my soldiers could make a better tape than he does right now."
General Odierno said that most of the attacks were now being coordinated by former colonels and lieutenant colonels in the Iraqi intelligence services, Special Republican Guard or other Iraqi security services.
"There's no one mastermind," he said. "It's to work at the will of the American people back in the U.S. by killing as many coalition soldiers as they can so we will pull out. They still believe we're not willing to take casualties."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maj. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, commander of the Fourth Infantry Division, appeared at a Nov. 26 news conference in Tikrit, Iraq. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Bombs and Explosives; Finances; Terrorism

PERSON: RAY ODIERNO (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) Eric Schmitt; Saddam (Pres) Hussein; Raymond T (Maj Gen) Odierno

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; Tikrit (Iraq); Samarra (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



340 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Coffee, Tea or Freedom? 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Impressed by the boom in Internet chat rooms in China, I conducted an experiment this week to test the limits of free speech.
 On several of these chat rooms I tried to post a message, in Chinese and seemingly from an ordinary Chinese, declaring, "Why is Prime Minister Wen Jiabao off in America kowtowing to the imperialists when he should be solving more important problems at home!" 
 That was censored. I tried again, posting a more subdued version -- and, again, it was censored. So my third version was milder yet: "Prime Minister Wen Jiabao's visit to America has been very successful, but I wonder if perhaps he is wasting too much time abroad instead of focusing on our own important problems like unemployment." 
That turned out to be what Chinese journalists call a cabianqiu, after the term for a Ping-Pong ball that just nicks the corner of the table: legal by a whisker. The censors didn't intervene, and I successfully posted that comment in three chat rooms.
So that's the frontier of free speech in China in the information age, and it reflects real progress. Sure, the thought police toss Internet dissidents in prison, with 66 Chinese journalists and Web scribblers currently behind bars, some facing torture and beatings. Still, this is pretty much the first time since the 1980's that the Chinese have had public forums in which they can (very delicately) criticize top national leaders by name. 
China's new emperor, President Hu Jintao, is presiding over this twilight zone and trying hard -- rather successfully -- to convince the population that he's a new kind of leader. Most Chinese I talk to are very impressed by Mr. Hu and Mr. Wen, who project a humility and compassion very different from the pomposity of the former emperor, Jiang Zemin. My guess is that Mr. Hu and Mr. Wen would win a free election if it was offered.
Mr. Hu and Mr. Wen are relentlessly photographed feeling the pain of the poor and the underdog. Most important, they have begun to address AIDS in a serious way. 
Yet as I travel around China and talk to everyone from peasants to senior officials, I'm afraid the leaders' strategy will fail and ultimately lead to upheavals in the coming years. The reason is that China has always operated to some degree on fear, and that fear is now eroding. Chinese don't protest when they are most upset, but when they think they can get away with it: that has been true of every upheaval from the 1956 Hundred Flowers outpouring of complaints all the way to the Tiananmen Square democracy movement of 1989.
Ever since the Tiananmen movement was brutally crushed, China has been fairly stable because its leaders and its citizens have each been a bit afraid of the other. But the fear has steadily ebbed, and my guess is that henceforth fewer overtaxed peasants or laid-off workers will suffer in silence.
"This Mr. Nice Guy approach won't work," a senior government official warned. "You can't govern by pretending to be nice to everybody. You've got to make hard choices. You've got to maintain control."
China is not Communist any more. It increasingly resembles the kind of complex (and corrupt) society that led to turbulence in South Korea and Taiwan in the 1970's and 1980's. One window into the country's changing values came this fall when President Hu's daughter, Hu Haiqing, married one of the country's leading Internet capitalists, Mao Daolin, in Hawaii.
The government is simply losing control of China, which now has 78 million Internet surfers and 250 million mobile phones. It's true that the middle class now has a stake in the system and may be wary of Tiananmen-style mass movements, but there are also deep grievances, especially among peasants and laborers.
The decline of fear is welcome, of course, but it's also going to mean a bumpy road ahead. In a city in Manchuria, I stopped in a small restaurant and ordered a cup of coffee. The waiter asked whether I wanted Nescafe, Maxim coffee, Swiss coffee, Brazilian coffee, Blue Mountain coffee, mountain-grown coffee, mocha coffee, iced coffee or Italian cappuccino. I can't help feeling that when people get multiple choices in ordering a cup of coffee, it's only a matter of time before they demand choices in national politics.
So I think that the long calm that followed Tiananmen is ending. Exciting times are coming to China again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHAT ROOMS (91%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (77%); WRITERS (73%); FARM LABOR (70%) Politics and Government

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (89%); HU JINTAO (79%) Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2003 



341 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Left Behind 

BYLINE:  By David Lipsky; David Lipsky is the author of "Absolutely American: Four Years at West Point."

 BODY:
 I AM A SOLDIER, TOO
The Jessica Lynch Story.
By Rick Bragg.
Illustrated. 207 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $23.95.
 FROM the beginning, nobody's ears seemed tuned to the skeptical frequencies. Last March, Pvt. Jessica Lynch set out for Iraq with the 507th Maintenance Company -- part of the essential military backstage, truckers carting fuel, water, toilet paper and food. She became the war's first big scoop: in its front-page account of her capture, The Washington Post quoted an official saying Lynch was "fighting to the death." Pentagon sources warned that this was raw battlefield intelligence, an unconfirmed rumor; yet it was the part about Lynch sustaining "multiple gunshot wounds" while firing to her last round that raced out over the wires and led every newscast. 
Five foot three and a wispy 100 pounds, Lynch emerged as America's most famous soldier. In the first weeks of April, every day brought a fresh Jessica Lynch bulletin: news watchers learned about neighborhood life in the West Virginia hollows, Lynch's "neat, girlish handwriting," how she took Miss Congeniality at a local county fair. (Winning top prize would have implied the easy road; instead, Lynch received her award for politeness and grit.) She had enlisted for college money, with an eye toward teaching kindergarten; she was, in the classic American tradition, a reluctant soldier. Yet at the moment of truth she didn't falter; she'd been brutally injured and endured eight days of captivity in a hospital with the nicely symbolic name "Saddam General." 
Her story broke during the stalled early days of conflict, with morale reaching low tide, and had a galvanizing effect. "I took it right to heart," explains a marine in the middle of "I Am a Soldier, Too." "I have a sister. She's 19. . . . I thought of the people who would do that. I wanted to kill them. I killed 34 of them." 
Yet within days of her rescue, her parents and Army physicians were disputing whether Lynch had received any gunshot wounds at all. Within a month, Iraqi hospital workers questioned the necessity of her dramatic rescue -- they had tried handing her over to coalition troops days earlier. A BBC report painted the commando raid -- soldiers videotaped taking a hospital with full force -- as a propaganda stunt. (Though to second-guess the armed entry of an occupied building in hostile territory, even a hospital, you had to be unfamiliar with the most basic military doctrine.) The Army's official investigation revealed that Lynch had never fired a shot: under desert conditions, her M-16 had jammed, and she had been praying inside a Humvee when it plowed into a tractor-trailer. The coverage about Lynch proved, in nearly every particular, inaccurate. 
Still, she had suffered real and life-threatening injuries, had faced combat and lost close friends on what was then the bloodiest day of the war. A story was clearly waiting to be told. In September, a spokesman announced that Lynch had paired up with a down-home Pulitzer Prize winner, the gifted journalist Rick Bragg, who could write that story from the inside. It seemed a perfect literary blind date. 
In a letter to F. Scott Fitzgerald -- who enlisted in the Army too late for World War I -- Ernest Hemingway offered some gruff, desktop advice. "The reason you are so sore you missed the war is because war is the best subject of all. It groups the maximum of material and speeds up the action and brings out all sorts of stuff that normally you have to wait a lifetime to get." Bragg organizes the book to triple this advantage, by shaping Lynch's story as three linked battles. 
First is the low-intensity economic struggle of growing up working class in rural West Virginia. One of Bragg's sly suggestions is that Lynch's greatest fear, of "being left behind" -- which comes momentarily, horrifyingly true in the Iraq section, when her truck falls hours behind the main convoy -- was her life's default position. Soldiers like Lynch, he writes, were the sons and daughters of blue-collar workers who had jobs at plants "that closed their doors before the next generation could build a life from them." This opportunity deficit, as the author sees it, is what put them into uniform. 
Second is Lynch's actual combat and her days as a prisoner in the surprisingly compassionate hands of her Iraqi doctors. Some reviewers have questioned whether, without the exploits initially attributed to her, there could be any power in Lynch's narrative. (Though Bragg does not say so, the early error had a simple explanation. According to later news reports, the Army was intercepting Iraqi radio chatter, and overheard that a yellow-haired soldier from Lynch's unit had indeed fought bravely and fallen; that soldier turned out to be a sergeant named Donald Walters. Interpreters confused the Arabic pronouns for "he" and "she" and thought it was Lynch.) Some of the best war writing, though, takes place along the confused margins of combat. And Bragg powerfully details the series of mistakes -- exhaustion, vehicle malfunction, poor communication -- that led the 507th into their ambush; these scenes are the high point of the book. 
But Bragg, a former national correspondent for The New York Times, was composing under the fog of deadline. With an impossible two months for writing, he ended up with all of a military strategist's problems: routes get confused and abandoned, supply lines between idea and expression stretch thin, straggling images mumble up and down the column. How else to explain the odd language deployed in a moment like this, of Lynch's coming-to? "She had prayed that she would live through the fight, and she had thought that if she did, her fear would evaporate. But now it was back, hand in hand with the pain, like evil twins." Or the romantic depiction of Lynch's fiance, "he was in the kind of love that Ajax won't scrape off," or her best friend as a "soldier whose dog tags rested upon a pushover heart"? In a book of 207 pages, Bragg includes more than 400 single-sentence paragraphs -- a well-established distress signal, recognized by book readers and term-paper graders alike.
The book's final struggle is Lynch's attempt to reclaim control of her own story, which ought to be as thrilling as the Iraqi stuff. She returned to the United States amid an avalanche of blessings that tops a Frank Capra movie: applause, civic gratitude, cascading gifts. Lynch had offers of college scholarships, Hawaiian vacations and new cars, and so much mail her town's postmaster started warehousing it in an empty jail cell. The emotional pressure -- the mixed shame and gratification -- must have been intense, yet she steadfastly corrected the record. ("The myth," Bragg writes, "was made while she was sleeping." Upon awakening, she contradicted it.) Instead of focusing on this aspect of the story, though, where Lynch arguably showed how tough she really was, the author shifts his attention to her likely sexual assault by Iraqi soldiers, which she does not remember. 
It's Lynch's conduct since the book came out that is, strangely, the most stirring part of her story. On talk shows, she displays the rare forthrightness of a guest not trying to prep the ground for an invitation back. When Katie Couric asked on "Today" if her portion of public attention was unfair, Lynch replied: "Yeah. See, I didn't choose this, though. They came looking for me. So it's not like I went begging for people, 'Hey, let me tell my story to you.' " Giggling, she treated her David Letterman appearance like a visit to the den of an uncle she'd been warned might act goofy. It may be the first interview of a military hero where the host was forced to break a pause with the words, "So, anyway." 
Hemingway's maxim about wartime acceleration has proved as true for the home front. Last spring, with viewers firmly supporting the war, Lynch became a symbol for everything good in the conflict. Now, journalists seek to enlist her for the opposite cause. When Diane Sawyer ran the suggestion by Lynch that her rescue was propaganda, a risk-free show staged for a faraway audience, Lynch corrected, "I don't think it happened quite like that, though" -- meaning, the situation was more uncertain and hazardous than it appeared. The hunger for a different type of story was so great that's how the quotation ran in newspapers across the country anyway: "Lynch says rescue 'Didn't quite happen like that.' " Lynch continued: "It didn't matter to me if they would have come in in skirts and blank guns. It wouldn't have mattered to me. I wanted out of there. . . . They risked their lives. Those are my heroes." It takes a certain admirable stubbornness to resist being turned into a symbol twice in the same year -- an insistence on keeping the facts straight that counts as courage, in the civilian world or in the military.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ARMIES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); HOSPITALS (69%); DESERTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



342 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Last Call for Cuba? 

BYLINE:  By MARY TANNEN; MARY TANNEN is a novelist who lives in New York.

 BODY:
WE jumped at the opportunity to join a 10-day tour of Cuba last February. My husband, Mike, and I went legally as part of a study group flying by charter from New York. Shortly afterward, the American government announced that it would not approve any more such "people to people" educational visits, and soon it will be impossible for most American tour groups to go to Cuba.
 Officially, our group was going to study art and architecture. But the subtext, we discovered, was always politics. 
 After arriving in Havana, we went southwest to Cienfuegos, at population 135,000 Cuba's sixth largest city. Our group of 13 was seated in the band shell in the graceful late-19th-century main square, listening to the town historian, a chic woman whose blue eyes and blond hair marked her as a probable descendant of the French colonists who founded the city in 1818. Another well-dressed woman, whom we did not know, came and silently sat with us. The historian seemed to lose her train of thought; then she apologized, explaining, as her eyes filled with tears, that this was a friend whom she had not seen since they were girls and fled with her family to the United States. She rushed to embrace her. The lecture was cut short, as we were witness to a drama that illustrated a contemporary event: It is only recently that Cubans who fled to the United States after the revolution of 1959 have been allowed back for visits.
 Exploring the square on our own, we met up with a local artist, Wyacon (Julian Espinoso Rebollido), a weathered character in a hand-painted straw hat and a black T-shirt with the message in stark white: "The boat sank. Get over it." We followed him to the Maroya gallery to see his paintings, as well as the work of others. Later we trooped through his house, past laundry hanging on the roof, to look at more paintings and some droll shoebox-size wooden cows.
 Our group collected art feverishly wherever we went; quality was high and prices low. Art was one of the few Cuban products U.S. Customs would allow us to bring back. We paid in dollars, as we paid for everything. Since 1993, when Cuba opened the economy to United States currency, those who earn dollars from tourists have been much better off than those who make only Cuban pesos. In this topsy-turvy situation, an osteopathic surgeon takes home less than a painter of wooden cows.
 Paradoxically, much of the charm of Cuba for tourists is a result of the post-revolution economic decline, which prevented old structures from being torn down and replaced. On Avenida 54, the main pedestrian mall in Cienfuegos, we turned into a meagerly stocked plant store and mounted a grand, but derelict century-old staircase in one of the innumerable treasures crumbling from neglect. At the second floor were a pair of wooden spiral stairs ascending to turrets.We longed to climb them, but they were blocked off as unsafe.
 Just under two miles from the center of town is Punta Gorda, a peninsula that seems to have fallen under a Scheherazade spell. Palacio de Valle, a Moorish-style private mansion, set the style in 1917. In emulation, neighboring prefab wooden houses from Sears in the 20's and 30's acquired gingerbread porches, Moorish screens, minarets and other fantasies. In the 50's, Batista's brother plopped the cement-block modern Hotel Jagua in the middle of this community. Without the revolution, the peninsula might now be rows of Hotel Jaguas.
 In contrast to Cienfuegos, with its turn-of-the-century French flavor, Santiago de Cuba, on the eastern end of the island, has an older, earthier feel. In 1791, landowners fleeing the slave revolt in Haiti began developing coffee, cotton and sugar cane plantations, importing increasing numbers of slaves. As a result, the city, now the second largest in Cuba, has a high proportion of black and mulatto inhabitants among its 440,000 residents, and a rich African slave heritage.
 In the harbor is a tiny island that used to be called Smith, but now is Granma, after the pleasure craft that Castro and his guerrillas used to invade Cuba in 1956. Instead of monuments to the revolution, however, there are only gorgeously weathered wooden cottages and fishing shacks from the early 20th century, whose vine-wrapped verandas cry out for festoons of fashion models from capitalist magazines.
 In a country where neglect is the norm, at the Cementerio de Santa Ifigenia, the tomb of Jose Marti, the national hero who died in 1895 fighting for independence from Spain, stands out for its pristine condition. We witnessed a ceremony instituted by Castro. To a recording of the national anthem, three spit-and-polish soldiers descended the path in choreographed goose-step and relieved two guards at the door.
 Politics pretty much determined where and what we ate. In the government-run restaurants, the food was uniform, bland and bureaucratic. The only time we had a meal better than mediocre was at one of the privately owned paladares. As paladares are restricted to no more than 12 seats, it was difficult to find one that would risk taking our whole group. Because both types of restaurants accept only dollars, they are beyond the means of most Cubans.
 Everywhere we went -- in the restaurants and in the streets -- were musicians and dancers eager to teach tourists the Latin steps. Music is the Cuban heritage, but it is also a way of getting dollars into the economy. Bands stuck to classics from the 50's, as if in tryouts for the Buena Vista Social Club. We itched to find the real thing, the Afro-Cuban forerunner of salsa (called son), which began in Santiago. Our local guide took us to the Casa de las Tradiciones in Tivoli, the old French section. The crowd in this narrow, dark and steamy house with a courtyard in back was mainly Cuban of all races and all ages. The band was hot. Before we knew it, we were dancing with locals who coached us on the steps. We, in turn, stood them to drinks at a dollar apiece. At last, we thought, we had discovered the real Cuba, off the usual tourist route. We were brought down the next day when our guide told us it was a government-run club. Only Cubans who were members were admitted.
 Even romance was colored by politics. A single man in our group met a lovely young woman at the club, who joined us the next night for dinner. The morning of our departure she also joined us for breakfast. We said our goodbyes, boarded the bus and were horrified to see police coming to arrest the woman. Our guides jumped off the bus, and were able to persuade the authorities to release her. Thus we learned that in an effort to control prostitution, which has become rampant since tourist dollars started coming into the country, the government forbids Cubans who are not guides to stay in tourist hotels.
 I had gone to Cuba expecting to see one of the few places in the world that has not been engulfed by American culture. While it is true that there are no McDonald's and no Starbucks, our entire experience, from the food we ate to the friends we made, was shaped by Cuba's relationship with its close, powerful and wealthy neighbor. Never was I more aware of my own country than when I was in Cuba.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cubans are eager to teach visitors dances at clubs like Case del Caribe in Santiago. Young Cubans at Casa del Caribe learn the old country dances. (Photographs by Bob Krist) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); ART COLLECTING (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (60%); OSTEOPATHY (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: TANNEN, MARY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%) CUBA; CIENFUEGOS (CUBA); SANTIAGO DE CUBA (CUBA)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



343 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
In Stamford, the Condominium Market Is Sizzling

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: STAMFORD 

 BODY:
THE condominium market here has been sizzling, and the conventional wisdom is that downsizing grandparents and tempting mortgage rates deserve most of the credit. 
 But Richard Redniss, head of Redniss & Mead, land planning and zoning consultants in Stamford, thinks the explanation is bigger than that. He believes a fundamental change in home ownership is taking place. "There has been a movement across the country of urbanization," he said. "We're seeing baby boomers, empty nesters and entry-level people wanting to live downtown, close to the action." 
 Admittedly, the action in downtown Stamford has not always been noteworthy. But in recent years its Atlantic Street area has evolved into an energetic center for theater, concerts, ballet, opera, movies, nightclubs, restaurants and shopping. Tapping into the allure of downtown as a place to have a good time as well as to pursue corporate careers, developers are in effect replacing back-country homes with condominiums almost as large, luxurious and expensive. 
"There is still a lot of money in Fairfield County," said William Raveis, head of William Raveis Real Estate. "The average price of a home in Stamford is $650,000. If a condo has traditional amenities at that price, people who don't want the expense and bother of maintenance, who go to Florida in the winter, are attracted to it."
Figures compiled by his Stamford office show 775 single-family home sales in January through November this year, down from 796 sales in the corresponding period in 2002. But condo sales for the same periods were 841 this year, a gain of 11 percent from the 757 sold last year. 
Three major condo projects with an aggregate of 231 units are winding through city boards and commissions with Stamford Mayor Dannel Malloy's blessing, furthering his program for encouraging downtown residential development. "Condos pay taxes, for one thing," he said. "And the people who live and work here position the city as a premier business location and minimize the drawback of traffic in and out of the city." 
Additional plans for downtown condos are on drawing boards, Mr. Redniss said, while units on the market are selling briskly. Existing small rental buildings are being converted to condos, he added, and developers of large rental projects not yet submitted to the city are considering redesigning them as condos.
The new projects are responding to demands at high price levels. Market rate units at River House, the lowest priced, to be built at West Broad and Hanrahan Streets, will start in the high $200,000's to $400,000's; a project at Forest and Grove Streets by the Ceebraid-Signal Corporation will run $750,000 to $1.4 million; and River Oaks on Long Ridge Road will open at $1 million.
They will all comply with Stamford's requirement that 10 to 12 percent of total units must be sold below market rates. On a project-by-project basis, such units are offered to buyers earning 25 to 60 percent of the area's median annual income, which for a family of four is $110,000.
STAMFORD appears to be the only municipality in Connecticut to have its own statute for affordable housing, and for the past several years it has exceeded the state's goal of 10 percent affordable housing per community. "Other towns don't get it," Mayor Malloy said. "Affordable is not low income. It's police officers, firemen, young people coming out of college, seniors no longer fully employed." 
At the lower income level, New Neighborhoods Inc., one of the city's nonprofit developers of affordable housing, broke ground at Hoyt and Franklin Streets for a small project of four units expected to sell at a maximum of $250,000 each. Sandy Goldstein, executive director of the Downtown Special Services District, an association of businesses downtown, said: "We love both ends of the market. Variety is a major means of making downtown a 24-hour environment, and home ownership means people have a stake in the community."
The $30 million River House was designed by the architectural firm of Do H. Chung & Partners and developed by Mill River Associates L.L.C., an equal partnership of the Stillwater Investment Management Corporation and Seth G. Weinstein. The 92-unit building on a 1.5-acre lot will replace an abandoned gas station, a former auto dealership and stretches of weedy ground. 
Its site at the corner of West Broad and Hanrahan Streets is in a marginal area that is part of Stamford's evolving "central park." Just west of downtown, it is a linear stretch of land called Mill River Park, to be bordered with quality housing and some limited commercial uses. Pedestrians and cyclists in the park will eventually be able to travel about two miles along the landscaped banks of the Mill River, which bisects the park, from Scalzi Park at the north end to Long Island Sound at the southern tip.
Most River House residents will have views of the river and the completed first phase of Mill River Park, which includes an old-fashioned gazebo, lawns, shrubs and summer flowers. They will be within a two to four block walk of most downtown cultural and retail establishments and the main Stamford train station.
Apartments in the four-story building will have two or three bedrooms, two bathrooms and a balcony. Fourth-floor units will have multipurpose lofts, and all units, measuring 1,400 to 1,600 square feet, will have high end appliances, granite kitchen counters and wall to wall carpeting. In kitchens, breakfast areas and apartment entrances, there will be Pergo-type flooring -- a highly durable laminate that looks exactly like wood.
Parking for 164 cars will be provided at the basement level. Elevators in the front and back of the building will run to the basement from all floors, and storage lockers will be available on each floor for a fee. There will be no charge for use of the exercise room or parking for one car. 
"We wanted to be price competitive with some rentals in town," Mr. Weinstein said. Although he did not mention names, AvalonBay Communities has built 1,500 rental apartments in Stamford over the past decade, maintaining occupancy rates over 90 percent with extensive amenities that include pools, fitness rooms, indoor parking and concierges and, lately, some rent reductions and concessions on new leases. 
Paxton Kinol, who worked for AvalonBay for several years, is now in partnership with his father, Ray, as the Stillwater Investment Management Corporation. Mr. Weinstein has been involved financially in projects in Greenwich, Stonington and Stamford, and he will serve on the city's advisory board for Mill River Park. Last January he bought the former Inn at Mill River on the west bank, which had been converted to an assisted living complex, for $4.5 million. He then sold it for $7.5 million. "I believe the buyer will turn it into a Hilton Hampton Inn and Suites," he said. 
One of the other major projects is also downtown: the $26 million, 14-story building by Ceebraid-Signal, which is about two blocks from the Stamford Town Center mall. Designed by Robert A. M. Stern, dean of the School of Architecture at Yale, and Robert Swerdlow, it will occupy an acre and have 80 luxuriously appointed units of 1,750 to 3,000 square feet. An amenity that is certainly a first in the city, if not the state, will be the revival of a 1930's feature in Park Avenue high rises -- the elevator opening into the foyer of the individual apartment. "There is nothing like this in Stamford, and there is definitely a market for it," said Jason Schlesinger, vice president of Ceebraid-Signal.
The third project, River Oaks, by the Fieber Group of New Canaan, will be farther inland, a half mile from the Merritt Parkway, on 30 acres, with 12 acres to be left as open space and 59 units of 2,800 to 3,500 square feet to be clustered as free-standing empty-nester homes. River Oaks is named for the river running through it -- the Rippowam, where a riverside walk will be installed.
FIEBER'S condominiums and single-family homes in New Canaan and Greenwich sell for $1 million-plus to more than $7 million and have sold briskly. James Fieber, head of the family firm, says there is a waiting list of buyers for River Oaks from Scarsdale, Rye, Greenwich and New Canaan. 
Both River Oaks and Ceebraid-Signal will use a city alternative to supplying on-site affordable units by contributing to their construction at a different site. "We are offering $1.6 million," said Mr. Fieber. "The city decides where the money will go." Ceebraid-Signal will work with New Neighborhoods in creating its off-site units. 
Recalling the condo glut in the late 80's and early 90's, Joseph Monaco, manager of Coldwell Banker's Stamford office, said there is no danger of that today. "Now more owner-occupied condos are being built than single family homes because the cost of land has skyrocketed," he said. "Over the next five years the condo market will do very well."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The $30 million River House is to have 92 units on a 1.5-acre lot at the corner of West Broad and Hanrahan Streets that now holds an abandoned gas station, a former auto dealership and weedy ground. (Photo by Do H. Chung & Partners) Map of Connecticut highlighting Stamford and surrounding areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); EMPTY NESTERS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ZONING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); URBANIZATION (76%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FIRSTMERIT CORP (60%)

TICKER: FMER (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (60%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



344 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-36

European Meeting Fails, Showing National Conflicts
Leaders of the European Union failed to approve a draft constitution, stumbling on how to apportion power among large and small states after Spain and Poland refused to give up expanded voting rights won three years ago. 1

Clark to Testify on Milosevic
Gen. Wesley K. Clark, the former NATO commander and a contender for the Democratic presidential nomination, will testify tomorrow in a closed session of the war crimes trial of Slobodan Milosevic. 26

Iraqis Aid in Decreasing Attacks
The allied military commander in Iraq, Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez, said that American troops had "achieved a significant decrease in attacks" with the help of Iraqis who were identifying those involved in insurgent strikes. 22

Tribesmen in Iraq are battling to get the oil industry running smoothly again. Since the American-led forces invaded, pipelines have been under constant attack. 24

Game Aims to Reduce Weapons
The United Nations Development Program is sponsoring a lottery in the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia in which players surrender a gun in return for a ticket and a chance at prizes. 4

NATIONAL 41-50

Court Cases Increasing, But Trials Decline
Federal lawsuits and prosecutions that end in open court before a jury have become increasingly uncommon, a study has found. Among the possible explanations is a growing antagonism to trials among some lawyers and judges. 1

Union Battleground in Iowa
Iowa has become the epicenter of a fierce labor battle, with 21 unions backing Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri while three others, including two of the nation's largest unions, support Howard Dean, former governor of Vermont. 1

Math Mystery Deciphered
A historian of mathematics at Stanford appears to have solved the mystery of a treatise called the Stomachion, written 2,200 years ago by the Greek mathematician Archimedes. 1

Possible Thurmond Family Tie
A 78-year-old Los Angeles woman is stepping forward to say she is the daughter of the late Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina and a black woman who once worked as the Thurmond family maid. 41

Gas Drilling Speeds Up
Natural gas drilling has greatly accelerated in the Wyoming wilderness, partly spurred by the Bush administration's energy policies. 41

NEW YORK/REGION 53-60

Study of Towers' Fireproofing May Point to a Wider Problem
Hundreds of buildings nationwide with fireproofing similar to that used in the World Trade Center could be more prone to structural damage during major fires than previously thought, according to preliminary calculations by federal investigators. 1

Call for Rowland to Step Aside
Despite a call by the Connecticut Democratic Party leader that he step aside during a federal investigation, Gov. John G. Rowland said through an aide that he would not. 53

Neediest Cases 58

OBITUARIES 61-62

Chess 61
Weather 63

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HISTORY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); JURY TRIALS (75%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); WAR CRIMES (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); JUDGES (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); POLAND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



345 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Page Two: Dec. 7-13; 
What Bubble? Wall Street's Fever Spikes Again

BYLINE:  By Patrick McGeehan

 BODY:
INVESTORS were clamoring for shares of unprofitable dot-com companies. A day-trader was hailed on television as a smart, successful entrepreneur. The Dow Jones industrial average was flirting with the lofty 10,000 mark. 
 When was that -- late 1999, early 2000? Would you believe last week? 
 At times it felt as if the bubble of the 1990's had never burst and investors had not learned the lessons the collapse was supposed to have imparted. Once again, investment bankers were peddling unproven stocks and brokers and their clients were panting to get a crack at quick profits.
The week of flashbacks began with the revelation that the nice-guy finalist on "Average Joe," a reality-romance show on NBC, had been profiled in Fortune magazine during the heyday of day-trading in early 2000. The runner-up, Adam Mesh, is a partner in a trading firm, Chimera Capital. After having his heart broken on national TV when the beautiful bachelorette chose his rival, Mr. Mesh got the consolation prize of an appearance on CNBC to talk stocks.
On Tuesday, investors bid up the shares of a Chinese online travel agency, Ctrip.com International, to the biggest first-day gain in three years. The shares doubled from their offering price of $18 a share before falling back to close at $33.94, a one-day gain of 89 percent. At the height of the tech-stock frenzy in 1999, shares of companies that had never made a penny of profit routinely doubled in price on their first day of trading, but none had done so since November 2000.
On Thursday, the Dow closed slightly above 10,000, which happened for the first time in March 1999 but had not occurred in more than 18 months. (At week's end, the index had climbed to 10,042.) The Dow is now more than 50 percent higher than it was in late 1996, when Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, famously mused about investors being irrationally exuberant.
Traders did not break out party hats for the occasion, as they had the first time. But the event underscored this year's strong rebound in stock prices after three straight years of declines. "We're not as exuberant as we once were but we've retained our irrationality," said Terrance Odean, an associate professor at the University of California at Berkeley who studies investor behavior. "We're not giving that up easily."
Edward Chancellor, the author of "Devil Take the Hindmost," a history of financial speculation, said the relative shallowness of the recent recession had blunted the pain of the tech-stock collapse. 
"Have people forgotten?" Mr. Chancellor said. "I would say that some of the lessons that a bear market normally imparts have yet to be learned." Patrick McGeehan

GRAPHIC: Photo: Deja vu on Wall Street. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); WRITERS (68%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (66%); TRAVEL AGENTS (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CTRIP.COM INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%)

TICKER: K3RD (SGX) (55%); CTRP (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



346 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-14-03: ON LANGUAGE; 
Exit Stategy

BYLINE:  By William Safire

 BODY:
'The Bush administration has begun searching for an exit strategy," wrote NPR's Daniel Schorr in a recent Christian Science Monitor column. He noted that the phrase coming from the Bush White House went in the other direction: "stay the course."
 Donald Rumsfeld, peppered with questions about when the U.S. forces would leave Iraq, found a creative way to treat the phrase that refused to focus on departure: "Our exit strategy in Iraq is success. 
 It's that simple. The objective is not to leave; the objective is to succeed in our mission." 
The penetration of a new phrase is sometimes measured in cartoon captions, especially in The New Yorker. In 1995, a bride-to-be was pictured in a Robert Mankoff cartoon responding to her swain on bended knee: "O.K., but what's our exit strategy?" In 1999, James Stevenson drew a prisoner in a cell asking his cellmate, "What's your exit strategy?"
Alistair Cooke, the British-born American commentator whose weekly Letter From America has long added a touch of class to the BBC, took note of the jailbird exit strategists of '99 and observed, "'Exit strategy' is one of those simple-sounding, actually menacing catch phrases we've started using about war when it's uncomfortable to think a little deeper and acknowledge something unpleasant." He cited others: in harm's way and putting our men at risk." He guessed that exit strategy "came in with the gulf war."
Those of us in the phrasal etymological dodge cannot rely on anybody's recollection; citations are the thing. My researcher, Kathleen Miller, accepted the mission and enlisted the aid of Fred R. Shapiro, who as editor of the Yale Dictionary of Quotations touches all the scholarly databases. Fred came up with several uses in the late 1970's in business publications. In the Winter 1977 issue of the California Management Review, William Matthews and Wayne Boucher wrote critically of a company that "continues to attempt to achieve the established objectives -- way past the point at which, if the company had had a 'planned exit strategy,' it would have decided to terminate the venture." 
At that point I would have emitted a gleeful aha!, but Miller kept coming up with the use of the phrase by economists who cited a seminal 1970 book by Albert O. Hirschman about three strategies: "Exit, Voice and Loyalty." According to a 2001 paper presented at a California conference by the Moscow economist Vadim Radaev, Hirschman postulated three strategies to deal with uncertainty caused by new formal rules: the voice strategist publicly questions the orders, the loyalty strategist complies and the exit strategist avoids the new rules. 
At my command ("Get Hirschman, if he hasn't exited"), she found the 88-year-old social scientist where the geniuses hang out, at the School of Social Science at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J. 
Did he coin the phrase? No; it's nowhere in his book. He used exit option. "It was a somewhat new concept then," Hirschman recalls. "I used exit to indicate a possibility, a strategy. When you are dissatisfied, you can use your voice option or your exit option. It is not so different from the political use today. Speak up or get out."
That original where's-my-hat sense has changed to "a blueprint for bailout." In political and journalistic use, the phrase's connotation is accusatory: today's question, "Where is your exit strategy?" connotes "How do you plan to get us out of this mess at a date certain?" In his answer, Rumsfeld chose to counter that polemical connotation by defining the mission not as exit but as success. 
I am still working on stay the course, which appears to be rooted in a nautical metaphor. Send coinage citations to onlanguage@nytimes.com.

TOCQUEVILLE LIVES
What is it about the aforementioned Alistair Cooke that delights and educates the millions around the world who listen to him?
I was reading an essay he wrote in a 1935 issue of The Listener in which he used a letter from one of his British listeners to explain the way it is with Americans. The letter was about a scene in the movie of Dashiell Hammett's "Thin Man," starring Myrna Loy and William Powell. Cooke first describes the scene: "It is the one in which the wife (Myrna Loy) and her ex-detective husband are the hosts at a very rowdy and casual party which includes detectives, a lawyer, a few journalists, a young university student, a few ex-convicts, a fashionable divorcee. There is a chorus of drunks limply conducting a carol with almost any article of fire irons they can find. A fat man is howling for a long-distance call. There are three or four people chasing each other. You have to assume that at least a dozen wineglasses will be broken, tables scratched, that cigarettes will by this time be quietly punctuating the pattern of every strip of carpet, lace and cushion in the room. The atmosphere is so compelling, in fact, that Myrna Loy is moved to fling her arms around her husband's neck and confess weakly, 'What I like about you, darling, is you have such charming friends.' "
Cooke then quotes from his correspondent's letter: "However congenial or revolting the whole group seems to you personally, there is one astounding fact about that party. It is the way it is conducted. Can you think offhand of any English couple you know who, faced with that motley crew, wouldn't have given in, refused to serve people drinks, turned somebody out, felt their dignity wounded, or had a bitter quarrel about it afterwards? On the contrary, the good temper, the easy flippancy, the quick alert manners, the indifference to the good looks of their household; above all, the smooth indifference to this howling mix-up of social classes -- all this was taken so much for granted that in the middle of laughing I nearly forgot to notice it. But now I should call it, and I'm choosing my words carefully, a quality of breeding that probably no other race possesses."
"At a later time," Cooke wrote, "I shall try to suggest why it is possible in America for social classes to mingle freely and vitally and yet without sentimentality -- the reason is in the language."
He has been using that language with grace, wit and precision to skewer linguistic pomposity and to explain our common language all during that "later time" -- which has taken him to his 95th birthday. He's still going strong. You can read him, even hear him, on http://news.bbs.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/letter--from--america. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 4, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The On Language column on Dec.14, about "exit strategy," misstated a Web address for the work of Alistair Cooke, who discussed the term on his weekly program, "Letter From America." It is http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes / letter -- from -- America. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); DESERT STORM (76%); RELIGION (73%); TERRORISM (59%) English Language; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: William Safire; Alistair Cooke

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



347 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: 2003: THE 3rd ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; 
Futures Markets in Everything

BYLINE:  By Noam Scheiber

 BODY:
Even for an institution accustomed to P.R. fiascos, the Pentagon hit something of a milestone this year with its aborted Policy Analysis Market, or PAM. The idea was to find an efficient way of collecting a wide range of expert opinion about threats to national security. To do this, the Pentagon created a futures market -- a cross between a betting pool and a stock market -- in which government officials and other experts would buy and sell "assets," or futures, linked to developments in the Middle East. An asset might be, say, an imminent terrorist attack in Jordan. If experts believed that such an event was likely, they'd snatch up the asset, and its value would rise. Though individual investors would stand to benefit, the real beneficiary would be U.S. policy makers, who'd get otherwise diffuse opinion distilled into a single, easy-to-interpret number: the price of a future.
 Congress didn't see it that way. This summer, shortly after an enterprising Senate staff member came across a sample bet -- on the assassination of Yasir Arafat -- on a Pentagon contractor's Web site, two Democratic senators held a press conference to denounce the idea as "stupid" and "morally wrong." PAM and its chief Pentagon advocate, Adm. John Poindexter, were promptly put out to pasture. 
But the principle behind PAM is the very same principle behind the Democrats' criticism of the war in Iraq: the importance of basing national security decisions on expert opinion (especially when that opinion is at odds with the opinions of administration high-ups). Democrats wonder why the administration's prewar intelligence wasn't challenged more aggressively by the C.I.A. Well, a market involving lots of people with access to intelligence clearly would have challenged it. What C.I.A. analyst with knowledge of Iraq would have bet money that we'd discover an advanced nuclear program after the war?
The beauty of futures markets like PAM is that they're among the most meritocratic institutions ever devised. You bet on the chance that event X will occur on date Y, and regardless of where your office is or the size of your security detail, you make money if you're right and lose money if you're wrong. In 1997, Hewlett-Packard set up a similar market to help the company predict monthly sales figures. The participants were midlevel sales managers who, in the normal course of things, might have shaded their estimates on the high side to please their superiors (sound familiar, George Tenet?). The advantage of the company's futures market was that it was anonymous, meaning no one could be punished for hazarding an honest opinion. Factor in the profit motive, and it's no surprise that honesty is exactly what the market elicited. About 75 percent of the market's forecasts over the next three years proved better predictors of actual sales than the company's official forecasts. 
Authority isn't the only bias that futures markets are designed to overcome. You might think people would be blinded by their partisan affiliations when trying to predict, say, the outcome of a presidential election. But the Iowa Electronic Markets, a futures exchange run by the University of Iowa business school, proved better at predicting the results of the last four presidential elections than 75 percent of the 600 polls conducted during that period. A futures market created by two European academics helped overcome partisan loyalty among soccer fans, correctly predicting the outcome of 15 of 21 games in the Euro 2000 tournament. And futures markets have even helped sort hype from reality in Hollywood. Traders on the Hollywood Stock Exchange, a movie industry futures market, in which bets are made with play money, correctly picked the winners in six of eight top Oscar categories in 2001; they went eight for eight the year before.
Still, meritocracy isn't democracy. Like any market, a futures market is only as good as the information it processes. Robin Hanson, a professor of economics at George Mason University, likes to distinguish between naive investors (so-called sheep) and investors who base decisions on hard evidence (so-called wolves). Get too many sheep and not enough wolves, and it's possible that you end up with bad predictions. Which, in the end, may have been the real flaw in the Pentagon's PAM experiment. The original model for PAM was limited to people with access to the best available information. But thanks to some bureaucratic red tape, the idea of using government analysts was junked in favor of opening the market to the general public. Unfortunately, when it comes to national security, there may not be enough lay people out there with good information -- and the people who do have information (that is, the bad guys) have little incentive to share it. Noam Scheiber

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ASSASSINATION (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%) Terrorism; Futures and Options Trading; Security and Warning Systems

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: Noam Scheiber; John M Poindexter

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JORDAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



348 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine Desk; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: 2003: THE 3rd ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; 
Labor Disputes Can Be Deadly for Consumers

BYLINE:  By Christopher Shea

 BODY:
Since the rollover crisis involving Firestone tires and (mostly) Ford Explorers became public three years ago, investigators have proposed a number of different theories for the blowouts, yet none have proved wholly satisfying. Though it's clear that a single Bridgestone/Firestone plant in Decatur, Ill., produced many of the flawed tires, a Firestone study found no "one overriding factor" behind the failures. Some tires seemed to have impurities in the rubber that bound the steel belt, while others had problems in the area between the tire's steel belt and its so-called shoulder. 
 In March, a radically different sort of explanation for the blowouts was offered in "Strikes, Scabs and Tread Separations," a paper written by the Princeton economist Alan B. Krueger and Alexandre Mas, a graduate student, and issued by the National Bureau of Economic Research. Their paper contends that labor strife is to blame: a management crackdown on labor in 1994, they argue, bred low morale on the factory floor, which led to flawed products that killed Firestone customers. (They deliberately avoid speculating why low morale led to flawed products.) 
 Using data unearthed in lawsuits and federal probes, Krueger and Mas determined that a large number of the faulty tires came off the Decatur assembly lines during two especially tense stretches in the long, ugly labor struggle that followed the crackdown. The first disproportionately bad batch of tires was produced from January to July 1994: at the outset of that period, Firestone discarded a longstanding labor agreement and announced new demands, which included longer shifts, a longer workweek and a pay cut for entry-level employees. By the end of that period, the union resolved to walk out. As for the second batch of bad tires, they coincided with the strike's tense endgame, from May 1995 to August 1996, when union members returned to work alongside their nonunion replacements and the terms of a final settlement were hashed out.
Krueger and Mas's theory ought to give Wall Street pause. In a memo obtained by the union from an anonymous source, someone -- presumably a Firestone official -- wrote, "While it was nice to share a good relationship" with the union, it was no longer "in the company's interest" to do so. But if Krueger and Mas are right, the official was wrong: in the wake of the tire recall, Firestone's market valuation dropped by more than half, from $16.7 billion to $7.5 billion. Christopher Shea

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TIRES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); PRODUCT SAFETY (72%); PRODUCT RECALLS (70%); WORK WEEK (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LITIGATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) Tires; Labor; Recalls and Bans of Products; Automobile Safety Features and Defects; Accidents and Safety

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE CORP (98%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%) Bridgestone/firestone Inc

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (98%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (98%)

PERSON: Christopher Shea; Alan Bennett (Prof) Krueger; Alexandre Mas

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Decatur (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



349 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 92

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: 2003: THE 3rd ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; 
Social Networks

BYLINE:  By Jon Gertner

 BODY:
Just a few years ago, the network was what people tapped into at parties or business conventions or what they called upon if the market turned sour or they were in desperate need of a job. In the time since, a coterie of "network thinkers" have begun to extend the language of the network -- "nodes" and "hubs" and "links" -- to phenomena ranging from the workings of the world economy to the possible spread of a dangerous pathogen. Several network theorists, most notably Albert-Laszlo Barabasi of Notre Dame and Duncan Watts of Columbia, have recently discovered that varieties of systems display a common architecture that governs their dynamics and structure. The way a cluster of neurons fires, for instance, has marked similarities to the way a disease like SARS travels the globe or the way a contagious idea disperses. Apparently, lots of complex networks look like lots of other complex networks (the Internet and the North American power grid, for example). And apparently the idea that everything is connected to everything else no longer seems so far-fetched. 
 Many software and Web applications now allow us to explore our nearly infinite social connectivity. The most hyped and widely known is Friendster.com, which went online in March and allows users to meet people up to four social degrees away. There is also Tribe.net, which started in late July and focuses less on dating and more on utilizing social networks for professional relationships, as well as Tickle (another dating service) and LinkedIn (another professional contacts service). 
 All are in hot pursuit of market share -- a good indication that treating the human community as a network may be profitable as well as innovative. Tribe's backers include The Washington Post Company and Knight-Ridder, and Friendster has a number of Silicon Valley's top venture-capital firms betting on it. Users see dollar signs, too. A new social network software application called Spoke, for example, allows businesses to mine their computer databases so that a company's sales force might tap into co-workers' relationships for contacts, thus saving them from the inefficiency of cold calling. Meanwhile, several Democratic contenders, notably Howard Dean and Wesley Clark, have used in-person networking sites like Meetup.com to amass contributions and arrange rallies. At last count, the Dean bloc on Meetup had grown from a small but enthusiastic faction to more than 150,000.
Some of the fledgling social-network companies may indeed mature into powerful business hubs like eBay or Amazon. Yet the more intriguing prospect, from a sociological standpoint, anyway, is whether these applications will actually transform our lives. Ever since the publication of "Bowling Alone," we've been flooded with even more data about the end of community and lamentations for its return. At least in theory, a readily accessible social network would enable more of us to bond with people we regard as far less anonymous than strangers. The larger possibility, that plugging into our social networks might somehow remedy a profound national loneliness, is even more enticing.
What seems just as likely, however, is that social-network applications will further fracture life into disparate spheres -- the online and the offline. Jonathan Abrams (the C.E.O. of Friendster) and Mark Pincus (the C.E.O. of Tribe Networks) see their creations ultimately as a means to enrich offline experiences. But this fact is incontrovertible: technology has outpaced our physical ability to manage the social network. Duncan Watts, author of this year's book "Six Degrees," has wondered whether our primitive ancestry gives us a hard-wired tendency to attend to only our immediate associates, like family and friends. Our online persona may be rich with friends and contacts; it may make us feel popular and deeply valued as we trade tips about the best Australian Shiraz or converse about the best way to get to Burning Man. But our offline persona still gets stuck in traffic on the way to the liquor store. Our online persona may manage a Web-based cocktail party of three degrees -- a party that would include our friends, the friends of our friends and the friends of our friends' friends. But our offline persona, juggling the demands of family and work, can barely return the telephone calls from the first degree. Jon Gertner

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (70%); DATING SERVICES (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%); SOCIOLOGY (66%) Dating (Social); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%); MCCLATCHY CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%); MNI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: Mark Gertner

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



350 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 105

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: 2003: THE 3rd ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; 
Video-Game Art

BYLINE:  By Deborah Solomon

 BODY:
You may not think of video games as art, at least not in the same way that a painting by Picasso is art. Yet highbrows have always nursed a secret passion for low forms, if only to keep their taste from going stale, and video games are the latest pop phenomenon to be upgraded from economy to museum class. This year, several games were created expressly as objets d'art, rather than as commercial ventures, and academics published books with suitably dense thoughts on "gaming." In much the same way that Warhol swiped imagery from cartoons and advertisements, many young artists today see video games as the definitive pop experience, a form to cannibalize and critique. 
 Artists who favor the game mode are a curiously solemn bunch. Tellingly, three students at the University of California at San Diego courted controversy last summer with their "9-11 Survivor," a mock computer game set amid the crumbling twin towers. Players assume the role of victim, running through burning hallways and even leaping from windows. If that sounds like an exercise in underdeveloped undergraduate thinking, the project's creators concede a taste for theory. Their goal, they say, is to counter the deadening repetition of televised images of 9/11 mainly by adding the format of interactivity and (why deny it?) a dollop of sensationalism. 
 The students' teacher, Brody Condon, put it as well as anyone when he once described video games as an "immediately accessible tool for cultural criticism." He, along with the Los Angeles artists' collective C-level, recently simulated another woeful American locale in their work "Waco Resurrection." It asks players to take on the identity of the cult leader David Koresh and muse on the perils of political ideology.
Condon's work, along with that of fellow artists Cory Arcangel and Anne-Marie Schleiner, has been tapped for the coming Whitney Biennial, as well as for "Killer Instinct," which opened last week at the New Museum of Contemporary Art and claims the distinction of being the first museum exhibition to share its name with a Nintendo game. True, you don't need to visit a museum to see Schleiner's "Velvet-Strike," a downloadable work of art. It requires the player to participate in a digital peace protest, spraying hearts instead of bullets into scenes from the hit combat game "Counter-Strike." That may sound a little complicated for a game premise, but these days, play is hard work. Deborah Solomon

GRAPHIC: Photos: From top to bottom, stills from "Waco Resurrection," "9-11 Survivor" and "Velvet-Strike." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); CULTS & SECTS (72%) Computer and Video Games

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (58%)

PERSON: Deborah Solomon

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



351 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island; 
Inviting Demographics Lure Specialty Food Stores

BYLINE:  By CAROLE PAQUETTE

 BODY:
LONG ISLAND'S growing population, which economists say has money to spend, has "fast-food specialty chains" scrambling to break into its highly competitive consumer market despite skyrocketing real estate costs and hard-to-find locations. 
 Considered slightly higher-end than the typical fast-food restaurant, this category attempts to mix mass sales with an aura of premium food, specializing in, say, homemade bread or ice cream, often served in a cafe-style setting. 
 The chains are looking for highly visible locations with easy parking and high daytime populations, typically near offices or in large shopping malls, sites that are costly and limited, real estate agents say. 
"Initially, everybody had been afraid to come here because of the cost, but they are beginning to realize Long Island is dense and has great buying power," said Kenneth Schuckman, managing director of Schuckman Realty in Woodbury, a retail brokerage and development firm that represents the Arizona-based Cold Stone Creamery in Long Island and the metropolitan area. 
The franchise, which sells custom-mixed homemade ice cream, has opened five stores in Long Island this year and plans to open 30 more within two years. 
Another newcomer is Quiznos Sub, a Denver-based chain that features toasted submarine sandwiches. Quiznos opened 10 stores in Nassau and Suffolk this year and plans to open 30 more next year.
According to Franklin S. Zuckerbrot, president of Sholom & Zuckerbrot Realty, a Long Island City commercial real estate broker that represents Quiznos, rents for food uses have risen 10 percent to 15 percent in the last 12 months. Currently, he said, annual rents range from $15 a square foot in less populated eastern parts of Suffolk, like Selden, to close to $50 a square foot in well-established areas of Nassau, like the business districts of Garden City, Mineola and Great Neck. 
"It is harder to establish a location in these areas and is costlier because of restrictive zoning and a lack of available good locations," Mr. Zuckerbrot said. "Many municipalities set very high barriers."
According to Frank DeRubeis, planning commissioner for Smithtown in western Suffolk, which includes three large downtown shopping centers and Route 347, a major commercial highway, the problem usually does not involve zoning. 
"These restaurants are going into existing sites, so the question is not the use, which we welcome, but the access," he said. "Managing traffic is critical and a big issue because everyone wants two driveways -- for entrance and exit." Most existing sites have only one driveway. 
In many cases, added driveways would hamper the traffic flow of already congested roads, an issue that has caused the state and Suffolk County to restrict new commercial sites on some heavily trafficked roads, like Jericho Turnpike and Route 347, to one driveway, Mr. DeRubeis said. 
He added: "The cornerstone of the argument is that it is not the free-for-all it was when there was more land. Now we're more direct on what we want."
DESPITE the obstacles, Long Island is too good a market to overlook, Mr. Zuckerbrot said.
"It has a high-density population and the demographics are terrific," he said. "These chains can capture a consumer here that has one of the most desirable profiles in the country, including disposable income and a predisposition to eat in a casual setting."
According to Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist of the Long Island Association, a Commack-based business group, the population of Nassau and Suffolk grew by 50,000 from April 1, 2000 to July 1, 2002, and now stands about 2.8 million. The job market has remained stable because of a diversified economy, she said, and sales tax revenue for Nassau and Suffolk last year was up 9.6 percent over 2001.
"Consumer purchasing power has held up on Long Island despite a national and regional economic weakness, which is why it appeals to fast-food places," Dr. Kamer said. "Long Islanders are sufficiently affluent to afford to buy a large portion of their meals." The median household income for Nassau-Suffolk is $68,986, and more than half the households have two wage-earners, she said. 
"People want to live here, but over the past four years there has been a cost involved: real estate values have skyrocketed, with home prices increasing by 81 percent while household income has increased by 14 percent," she said. "There is a lot of mortgage debt, but if a family has to ratchet down, the last luxury they give up is a fast-food restaurant."
Quiznos, a 22-year-old company with 2,700 stores worldwide, opened its first New York store in September 2000 in downtown Brooklyn. It now has 60 stores in the metropolitan area, including 11 on Long Island -- four in Suffolk and seven in Nassau, including one in the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale.
Once the first Long Island store opened in Plainview in 2002 and proved a success, the company moved forward, opening 10 more stores this year, the farthest east being in Selden.
"Long Island has turned out to be the best market for Quiznos in the country," said Robert Tobias, the owner of the ROC Corporation in Manhattan, which bought the development rights for Quiznos in Long Island, New York City, Westchester and Rockland Counties, and Bergen County, N.J. 
Next year Quiznos plans to open 30 more Long Island stores, primarily in Nassau, where there is greater density, said Andrew Moger, the owner of Branded Concept Development of Manhattan, which is involved in the design and construction of the chain's stores. The stores will range in size from 1,200 square feet to 2,000. 
Eleven stores are currently under construction, and 60 are being planned for Nassau and Suffolk, Mr. Moger said.
ANOTHER newcomer to Long Island is Panera Bread, a 15-year-old chain of cafes based in St. Louis, whose menus feature homemade breads and pastries. Panera's first Long Island opening, in Carle Place, was last year, and the chain has opened stores in East Northport and Hicksville this year. Five more stores are planned for 2004, according to Edward Doherty, the owner of Doherty Enterprises in Allendale, N.J., which operates Panera's Long Island franchises. 
The stores have been leased in existing spaces ranging from 4,500 to 5,000 square feet. A free-standing, 4,500-square-foot, 110-seat cafe is being planned for a strip mall on Route 347 in Hauppauge near state and county office buildings. 
Cold Stone Creamery, which began franchising its stores in 1995, now has 520 locations nationwide, primarily on the West Coast. The chain's first Long Island store opened in Woodbury in April. Since then, five morestores have opened in Nassau and five, including three in Suffolk, are under construction. Negotiations are under way for 14 more stores to open next year, "evenly distributed between Nassau and Suffolk and going all the way out to Montauk," Mr. Schuckman said.
"Long Island is a tight market and finding a location is difficult," he added. "One of the important things a realtor has to do to overcome the lack of availability is to have a good relationship with landlords of prime shopping locations. Strong marketing is also important because name recognition is important. In some instances you can take a secondary location that is not necessarily highly visible because if the marketing is good and you have a product that is exciting they will find you." 
Typically, the chain's stores run from 1,200 square feet to 1,400, but on Long Island, because of the volume, it is looking to lease stores of up to 2,000 square feet, Mr. Schuckman said. 
Also joining the competition for space is Saladworks, a Philadephia-based store that serves salads, pastas and sandwiches. The company, whose store area is typically 2,600 square feet to 3,200, is negotiating six deals on Long Island, Mr. Schuckman said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two newcomers to Long Island: Cold Stone Creamery at the Source in Westbury and Quiznos Sub on Sunrise Highway in Massapequa Park. (Photographs by Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (67%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (60%) Housing; Condominiums; Restaurants; Fast Food Industry

ORGANIZATION: Quizno's Corp; Cold Stone Creamery

PERSON: Eleanor Charles; Carole Paquette

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Stamford (Conn); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



352 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: POSTING: The Annual 'Housing NYC'; 
Rental Housing Trends

 BODY:
Between 1994 and 2002, New York City's rent-stabilized housing stock decreased by 42,976 apartments, according to "Housing NYC: Rents, Markets and Trends," an annual publication of the city's Rent Guidelines Board that recently went on sale. 
 In 2002, the publication reports, 18,500 permits were issued for new housing units in the city, the most since 1985 and a 10 percent increase over 2001. 
 Operating costs for rent-stabilized apartments, according to the report, increased 16.9 percent in 2003.
"It's a compendium of the most recent information on economic trends in rental housing, owner revenues and costs, tenant income and housing supply changes," said the board's acting executive director, Andrew McLaughlin.
"It's useful for real estate professionals, academics, policy makers and, of course, landlords and tenants," he said.
For purchasing information, contact the CityStore at nyc.govcitystore or at (212) 669-8246. The price is $25, plus shipping costs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (94%); TRENDS (93%); RENT CONTROL (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%) Housing; Renting and Leasing

ORGANIZATION: Rent Guidelines Board (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



353 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey; 
Marketing Corporate Palaces in Tight Times

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
TWO enormous corporate headquarters are on the market in New Jersey right now -- the former AT&T building in Basking Ridge and the BASF Corporation complex in Mount Olive -- and Cushman & Wakefield, the large real estate services company based in East Rutherford, is handling both properties.
 The commercial office marketplace is not exactly sizzling in New Jersey, and even at the best of times, large, unique -- one could even say lavish -- properties like these do not get snapped up with alacrity, as veteran brokers attest. 
 The Basking Ridge campus occupied by AT&T for 27 years comprises seven interconnected buildings, providing 1.3 million square feet of space, including indoor waterfalls and a cavernous cafeteria, along with another 1.3 million square feet of underground garage parking, a hotel and conference center and a heliport.
The Mount Olive BASF headquarters, built in the mid and late 90's, has five interconnected modern office buildings providing one million square feet of space, two parking garages for up to 2,350 cars, advanced technology and security systems, and an 800-seat cafeteria. The property also includes development rights for additional buildings with up to 700,000 square feet. 
There has been only one large company publicly seeking one million square feet of space this year -- Mellon Bank -- and it has passed on the both the AT&T and BASF offerings. Yet Andrew J. Merin and Robert J. Donnelly, who lead Cushman teams marketing the two colossuses, say they are confident they will find buyers for both. "It could take a year," conceded Mr. Merin. "It could take two. But we have racked our brains and can't think of a significant property in North/Central New Jersey that didn't sell in two years." 
Mr. Donnelly, who began marketing the BASF property in October, added, "We've both been around a long time, and we know that if you position a property the right way and target the right companies, sooner or later the stars align, and a deal is made."
The two brokers, both in the business for more than two decades, said they are sending out general marketing letters about these two properties, detailing square footage, development possibilities, amenities, energy and telecommunications capacity and security features, and providing salient facts about the surrounding community.
Because the properties are not "run-of-the-mill Class A office buildings," however, Mr. Donnelly said, he and Mr. Merin worked with Cushman's research department to determine what companies might be a match with the spaces -- even if the companies are not currently in the market for space -- and are sending them letters with specific proposals. Mr. Donnelly said he was sending out letters in groups of 30 and following up with personal phone calls. Mr. Merin said his team had targeted 150 companies and would concentrate on personal contact with all of them after the holidays.
"It's sort of like online dating," Mr. Merin said. "There is a science to it, but it requires some intuition as well. You have to propose the most intelligent strategy for a special property, identifying and selecting a company that will listen intelligently to what the prospects are." 
He said that is how his team, the Financial Services Group, sold the AT&T building the first time -- just last year. In that case, the sale took only nine months.
Pharmacia, then a growing pharmaceutical conglomerate, "gobbled it up" for $200 million, Mr. Merin said. But then, a few weeks later, Pharmacia was itself gobbled, by Pfizer, creating a worldwide behemoth. 
PFIZER, which announced last spring that it was expanding in New York, employs 4,245 people in New Jersey, but never seriously contemplated consolidating them in the nearly 30-year-old complex, which once set the standard for corporate luxury, knowledgeable brokers said. The drug company, which acquired the New Jersey-based Warner-Lambert three years ago, is currently plotting how to consolidate space in New Jersey, Mr. Merin said. It recently sublet two new offices for its own use in Parsippany, while at the same time securing a tenant for Pharmacia's former offices in Bedminster. 
BASF, the North American affiliate of a the German chemical conglomerate, is also moving to consolidate and contract in New Jersey, Mr. Donnelly said. It hired Cushman to find it a small headquarters somewhere in northern New Jersey at the same time it is marketing the Mount Olive property.
Turning over the two big properties may involve "repositioning" -- looking for some totally different type of owner-occupant and completely renovating office space to suit one or more tenants, the Cushman brokers acknowledged. But in the case of BASF, Mr. Donnelly said, the most likely uses for the building are as a research and development facility or as back-office space for a company seeking to meet federal regulations requiring New York City businesses critical to the national economy to have redundant facilities, where operations could resume within a day after a major disaster. 
Mr. Merin said the AT&T complex could serve the back-office function as well, perhaps for a group of related businesses. State development authorities have begun discussions with real estate industry leaders about cooperative efforts to attract firms in need of disaster-recovery sites, but the Cushman representatives declined to comment as to how that might figure into the marketing of the two sets of headquarters buildings.
The BASF complex, known as Willsbrook at Mount Olive, could be an attractive home for a company, or possibly two companies in related fields, that could take advantage of its location in the state's International Trade Center. The 670-acre multiuse business park, which houses more than 26 multinational and domestic companies, including BMW, Calvin Klein and Federal Express, is a designated Foreign Trade Zone, with relaxed customs procedures and lower tariffs.
Some very large properties in the region have found useful new lives after space was broken up to suit multiple tenants, other brokers pointed out. Kim E. Mowers, head of a tristate Grubb & Ellis team that marketed the former Union Carbide headquarters in Danbury, Conn., when it became available two years ago after Dow Chemical's acquisition of Union Carbide, said the 1.2 million-square-foot building never found a buyer. But its space is now about 75 percent leased, he said.
There are currently 15 companies occupying 679,000 square feet in the building, and another set to move into 229,000 square feet in May. Other lease negotiations are pending, Mr. Mower said.
Because the leasing has gone so well, Grubb & Ellis is no longer marketing the property -- owned by the German firm Sunbelt Management -- for sale, said Matthew Schnurr, a member of the Grubb & Ellis team from New Jersey.
Joseph R. Romano, executive vice president of Advance Realty, said the AT&T building would no doubt require expensive renovations to suit a new owner, tenant or tenants. But he said he thought that the building is still a good deal, considering how much it would cost to replace. "The relevant question becomes: which is cheaper? Do we buy existing space, which is roughly $60 per foot less, or build new? That's a big difference in cost, especially when properties for sale have prime locations."
A developer, Mr. Romano said, might reason along these lines: "If I buy AT&T at $100 a foot, and put $50 a foot into it, that's still below cost for a new building. If I get the work completed by the end of 2004, and the market continues to improve as it has begun to show signs of doing, then the market will have come to me."
Mr. Romano said Advance is using this basic reasoning in its work on the 345,000-square-foot former Exxon International headquarters in Florham Park, acquired in late 2000, which it is stripping down to bare steel and rebuilding.
The Cushman brokers said they were handling several other large properties that were repositioned and are now under contract for sale.
The former Unilever plant, 500,000 square feet in 12 structures on 23 acres in Edgewater, has been converted to mostly commercial office space, and a buyer should close on the property by the end of the year, they said.
The former American Standard toilet and bathroom fixtures manufacturing plant in Piscataway, 740,000 square feet of industrial space on 112 acres, has also been turned into offices and is under contract.
Two years ago, Cushman had a six-week deadline on Lucent Technologies' 800,000-square-foot office complex in Warren and sold it after a 10-day marketing program, Mr. Merin and Mr. Donnelly recalled.
The year before that, a Cushman team led by Mr. Merin sold 1.8-million-square-foot Novartis research campus in Summit to the Schering-Plough Corporation, but that deal took 12 months to accomplish.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, the 154-acre headquarters of BASF in Mount Olive and, below, part of the former AT&T headquarters complex in Basking Ridge. (Photos by Skyview Aerial Surveys, top; Timothy Ivy for The New York Times, bottom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (54%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

COMPANY: BASF CORP (94%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Cushman & Wakefield

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (94%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%) SIC3695 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA; 

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey; Basking Ridge (NJ); Mount Olive (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



354 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2641 words

HEADLINE: The Alchemy of a Zoning Bonus 

BYLINE:  By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
CESAR PELLI leaned his lanky frame over a model of his luminous glass 54-story tower, now rising one floor every three days or so over 59th Street and Lexington Avenue, topped by a miniature version of the multistory beacon he designed for its crown, just above 24 floors of luxury condominiums. 
 As Mr. Pelli spoke, a xylophone and bass played in the background, and residential brokers sipped pale blue drinks from martini glasses. They were gathered for a suave upscale pep rally marketing the remaining apartments of the residential condominium, One Beacon Court, for sale for $2.1 million to $26 million. 
"We are only this high now," Mr. Pelli said, pointing toward the model's 46th floor, "and already I could see it from all across Central Park." 
Ruth Gardiner, a retired office worker, is somewhat less impressed. She is 85 years old, and a few years ago she and her husband gave up the three-bedroom apartment she had rented for nearly half a century in Queens and moved to a new apartment a few blocks away from Mr. Pelli's tower. "They keep building so much in Manhattan that one of these days Manhattan is going to sink," she told a visitor with a laugh.
But Mr. Pelli's vision and Mrs. Gardiner's apartment are inextricably linked. More than half of the 105 condominium apartments under construction at One Beacon Court were made possible by a zoning provision that allows developers to make large buildings even larger, if they build -- or at least pay for -- housing for people with limited incomes like Mrs. Gardiner and her neighbors on East 61st Street.
The little known provision was created in the late 1980's, just as housing development dried up. In the last few years it has produced a steady trickle of lower-income housing, close to 100 apartments a year, becoming a critical building block of many new luxury housing developments.
Similar provisions, known collectively as "inclusionary zoning," have been used in New Jersey, Maryland, California and other states to coax, or in some cases require, the creation of housing affordable to less affluent residents.
In Manhattan, inclusionary housing enables developers to increase the size of buildings allowed on many major avenues and streets in areas with high-density development by up to 20 percent in exchange for creating limited-income housing nearby. 
Because the program was specifically intended to address the borough's problem of gentrification, it requires developers to build limited-income housing in or around the same neighborhood, including some of the most affluent enclaves in the country. Builders receive up to four square feet of development rights for each square foot of lower-income housing.

Within Manhattan
Lower-Cost Housing In Prime Areas
The new lower-income housing is in several dozen buildings in Manhattan's best neighborhoods. Many are crisp new buildings, sometimes only a few apartments, sometimes many, with large, bright, homey apartments. Most rent for $600 to $800 a month, and tenants must meet stringent income requirements -- and win a lottery.
When the Related Companies built the Lyric, a 23-story rental project on Broadway and 95th Street, it also built 11 low-income apartments on West 105th Street. In exchange, the Lyric was able to add 40,000 square feet, enough room for 44 more apartments. When the Clarett Group decided to put up a 20-story condominium at 107th Street and Broadway, it spent $900,000 to purchase a 25-by-75-foot lot on 108th Street to build five apartments and add 20 percent to the Broadway building's bulk.
When Izak Senbahar built the 32-story Grand Beekman, a condominium development on East 51st Street this year, he also built a 12-apartment building on East 54th Street. There, Flossie Dupaski, a retired travel agency owner who saw a notice about the building in her church bulletin, now pays a little more than $700 a month for a studio reserved for the elderly. She met the strict income requirements of at least $25,700 a year, but no more than $35,100. 
Mr. Senbahar said the East 54th Street building was expensive, costing about $4.5 million, nearly $380,000 an apartment, but it allowed him to add the last five stories to his 51st Street project at a cost of about $135 a square foot. Last month, he said, a three-bedroom apartment on the 29th floor of the Grand Beekman sold for $2.9 million, or nearly $1,500 a square foot.
"The Grand Beekman was a huge success," said Mr. Senbahar, adding that he also felt good about doing some good. He eventually turned the lower-income project over to the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, which he said had meticulously worked over the details of the design.
"We didn't cut corners," he said. "We were giving joy out of it, and if you don't cut corners, you can feel you are doing a good deed at the same time."
Ms. Dupaski moved in last spring and has installed wallpaper with matching pillows, in an apartment that includes a dishwasher, parquet tile floors and an air-conditioner. She said getting into the building was "like winning the lottery." Her rent on a rent-controlled apartment on West 52nd Street was about to go up to $1,300 a month. "It was a blessing," she said. 
The program is unusual in that unlike most housing programs for lower-income people in the city, it creates most of its lower-income housing without large and continuing government subsidies. And unlike most other housing programs -- from the federal Section 8 rent subsidies to the state's Mitchell-Lama program -- the lower rents continue indefinitely, or at least as long as the luxury building still stands. 
But the program remains under pressure. As Manhattan below 110th Street becomes increasingly affluent and homogeneous, sites for small indirectly subsidized developments are becoming scarce and more and more expensive. Some housing planners complain about the unfairness of forcing builders to make indirect subsidies and the logic of putting up lower-income housing on expensive land. And community activists complain that it often creates buildings that are too bulky.

Beyond Manhattan
A Call to Expand In Gentrifying Areas
Yet as the city has begun rezoning neighborhoods and manufacturing areas outside Manhattan for denser residential development, particularly near the waterfront in Brooklyn, community leaders want to expand the program to the other boroughs to provide more affordable housing in rapidly gentrifying areas.
Councilman David Yassky of Williamsburg wants to change the code to mandate that developers build inclusionary housing in the same site or same neighborhood, when zoning rules are changed to permit higher residential development. The Manhattan program is voluntary.
"When there is a change from manufacturing to residential, their property values will increase 500 or 600 percent," Mr. Yassky said. "When you have that kind of wealth created by a government action, it is only fair to use some of that wealth for the public good. I want to make sure a good portion of that housing is affordable."
City planning officials are studying the proposal, according to Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development. But he said any plan would have to make economic sense to developers and deal with the concerns of communities wary of increasing building height and density.
"It barely worked in Manhattan for a number of years," he said. "The economics in Brooklyn for developers are more difficult, and the sensitivity to density in the outer boroughs is even greater."
The inclusionary housing bonus creates only an incremental change in residential buildings, permitting the maximum square footage, in a typical application, to go from 10 times the footprint of the building to 12.
But by adding a residential tower to a large office building, Mr. Pelli's project at One Beacon Court was able to leverage the zoning bonus to increase the allowable size of the entire building. The use of inclusionary housing was larger, more complex and more critical there than at other projects.
One Beacon Court, developed by Steven Roth, head of Vornado Realty Trust, covers a square block bounded by Lexington and Third Avenues and 58th and 59th Streets, across the street from Bloomingdale's. It is an unusually large Midtown development site, covering 84,300 square feet, and would under the regular zoning rules be eligible for an 843,000-square-foot building, not including retail space below street level or mechanical space on upper floors, including the space shared with the beacon.
Most of the building will be office space, and most of that has been leased by Bloomberg L.P. for its headquarters. But when the developers penciled even a small residential project in the building, they became eligible for the housing bonus. As a result they were able to increase the size of the entire project by 20 percent, to more than 1 million square feet, according to company officials.
All that extra space is included in the residential tower; in the end 55 percent of the residential space -- roughly 13 of the 24 residential floors -- was made possible by the bonus program, according to figures provided by Vornado officials and the New York City Department of Buildings.

One Beacon Court
Three Sites Provide Zoning Bonuses
But to make this possible, Vornado needed to build or find lower-income housing either within the same Community Board district or within a half a mile of the site. Long before Vornado began construction on Mr. Pelli's tower, it found Mrs. Gardiner's building. Built by another developer, the property had extra zoning rights for sale. 
Ms Gardiner lives in a 15-story building for the elderly with 53 apartments, a library, community rooms and a backyard garden. It was built several years ago by Trevor Davis to get extra development rights on his own Upper East Side developments. 
Mr. Davis then turned the $14.3 million building over to the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, for $10, free of any debt, according to Gary Gutterman, the agency's director of housing. The council operates 4 of the 26 occupied projects in the inclusionary housing program.
Mr. Davis said he used rights from the building on a succession of projects that rose across the Upper East Side, including the Century Tower on East 91st Street, the Empire on East 78th Street, the Impala on East 76th Street and First Avenue and the Seville at Second Avenue and 77th Street. 
In December 1999, Vornado bought 97,372 square feet of the remaining development rights that Mr. Davis received for erecting Mrs. Gardiner's building. The price was not disclosed, but on average Vornado said it paid $102 a square foot for rights purchased from a number of developers. In the spring of 2000, Mrs. Gardiner and her husband, Jules, moved into a roomy one-bedroom apartment. Her husband died the next year.
The apartments are large by Manhattan standards because under the program, the developer's bonus is based on square footage rather than the number of rooms or apartments, so developers have no financial incentive to create the undersized apartments so common in Manhattan.
For more than half a century, Mrs. Gardiner had lived in a three-bedroom apartment in a development in Fresh Meadows, Queens, built by New York Life. When she moved in in 1947, she said, she was embarrassed to tell friends and relatives how much money she paid -- $75 a month. When she moved out, her rent was close to the $714 charged on East 61st Street. 
Living in Manhattan makes it easier to get around, without a car, and the apartment is close to her daughter's home. 
William Rapfogel, executive director of the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, said the residents of the inclusionary housing have higher incomes than some of the other groups his organization has traditionally served. At one such project, he said, the council removed a banner with the organization's name on it because they objected to the word "Poverty."
But the council decided to get involved in the program after it received nearly 5,000 applicants for 121 apartments for very-low-income older adults, including 800 from people with incomes just too high to qualify. "People there may not be poor," he said. "But they are lower middle class, the near poor and the working poor." 
A few days after obtaining zoning bonus certificates from Mrs. Gardiner's building, Vornado notified the city's buildings department that it had purchased another 42,507 square feet of inclusionary housing space from a project on East 21st Street from BFC Partners, which specializes in building government-assisted housing. 
In this case, Donald Cappoccia, a BFC partner, said the company had persuaded the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development to sell it an occupied six-story tenement that had long been in the city's portfolio of tax foreclosed properties. BFC renovated the building for $5 million and turned over the 30 apartments to a not-for-profit sponsor, the Cooper Square Mutual Housing Association. It kept the commercial space, including the original Ess-a-Bagel store, and sold all its inclusionary rights to Vornado.
Finally, to complete the deal, Vornado put up its own inclusionary building, a 41-unit project for the elderly that it built with Jeffrey E. Levine, a developer who had found a site at 171 Lexington Avenue on the corner of 31st Street.
That project, according to Vornado filings, cost $16.3 million and produced 39,000 square feet of lower-income housing and 155,300 square feet of bonus space, at a cost of $105 a square foot. Vornado sold most of the rights to its own project and to other developers for $120 a square foot, a profit of $15 per square foot. 
The development rights used by Vornado translated into extra sales of luxury condominum units, with asking prices ranging from about $1,500 a square foot for apartments on lower floors to $2,600 a square foot for large apartments on upper floors and nearly $3,000 a square foot for the 8,600-square-foot penthouse. 
According to financial filings, the project paid $17.4 million for the rights used at the One Beacon Court project. But the apartments made possible by this purchase will probably sell for more than $200 million, an estimate confirmed by the company. And in the end Vornado had more development rights than it needed, so it resold some of the rights it had purchased as well as most of the development rights earned at the Lexington Avenue building.
Melvyn H. Blum, executive vice president for development at Vornado, said the inclusionary housing project produced much needed housing and helped his development too. "The fact is people are now living in Manhattan who couldn't afford to be here otherwise," he said. "It is a good program."
But some developers and planners say it makes more sense to use the developer-provided subsidies on lower-income housing in areas where it is less costly to build. Adam Weinstein, the president and chief executive of Phipps Houses, a not-for-profit housing group involved with several inclusionary projects, said the city may no longer be able to afford the luxury of building lower-income housing in Manhattan.
But Councilwoman Gale Brewer of the Upper West Side said her neighborhood needed lower-income housing precisely because prices were so high and gentrification so advanced. "We are so desperate for every unit," she said. "Every single day people pour into our offices with major, major housing problems."
On the other hand, she said she was also concerned about "the large and often not particularly attractive buildings, created by the program."
And with land costs so high, the future for similar inclusionary projects is clouded. Mr. Levine bought the 171 Lexington Avenue building with the idea of building lower-income housing. Today, he said, given the high cost of land, the site would be far more valuable as luxury housing.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Premium Space -- At One Beacon Court, there are to be 24 floors of luxury condominiums. Roughly 13 of these floors represent bonus space awarded because lower-income housing was created elsewhere in Manhattan. The bottom of the tower and the base, spanning the block between Lexington and Third Avenues and 58th and 59th Streets, will hold the headquarters of Bloomberg L.P., other offices and stores. Two condominium floors are not reflected in this rendering, which shows the building from 59th Street with Lexington Avenue on the right. (Photo by Vornado Realty Trust); A tower's foundation: 351 East 61st Street, 346 East 21st Street and 171 Lexington Avenue at 31st Street, three rental developments with housing for people with limited incomes. (Photos by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times, left; Angel Franco/The New York Times, center; Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times, right)(pg. 1); In exchange for 11 low-income apartments at 211 West 105th Street, right, the Lyric at Broadway and 95th Street was able to add 44 rental units, over 40,000 square feet. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times); Flossie Dupaski pays $700 a month for a studio on East 54th Street. Her building's bonus led to five extra stories of luxury condos on 51st Street. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (86%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); CITY LIFE (64%) Housing; Zoning; Law and Legislation; Housing

PERSON: Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



355 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS: FIELD NOTES; 
Stepping Out With My Baby, Gingerly

BYLINE:  By GERIT QUEALY

 BODY:
THE wedding couple's traditional first dance is a riveting moment. All eyes turn as the music swells and the couple sweep onto the floor. Yet surprisingly few couples give the moment much thought, and it shows. 
 What guests often see, dance teachers say, is something perfunctory: the "clutch and sway," they call it. 
 "In an era of such freedom," said Larry Schulz, an owner of the Sandra Cameron Dance Center in New York (212-431-1825), "many couples are incredibly awkward when they have to hold each other on the dance floor." 
Some find it puzzling that in an event so full of planning and proscribed ritual, many give short shrift to their first dance. "Couples often call us about a week or two before their wedding, realizing they have to do a dance, but having no idea what to do," said Karen Hermanson, an instructor and director of several Arthur Murray Dance Studios in Southern California (805-963-6658). 
Others about to marry see it as an opportunity to imbue the moment with their own personal stamp. Anna Rabinowicz and Aden Fine, who married in August in New York, gravitated to a 17th-century minuet, typically a slow, stately affair, which they danced to "Minuetto Allegretto," a humorous song recorded by the Wombles, a children's rock group from England. The bride, a Stanford-trained engineer and product designer, had grown up listening to the Wombles, and felt that the dance and the music were away of incorporating her late father, who was also English, into the ceremony. 
"We wanted something silly and fun, but dramatic," she said. "He would've loved it." 
They had to learn the dance in four lessons. "It was a crash course," she said, "but we sort of hammed it up and everyone was very enthusiastic." 
Most often the request for a dance comes with a specific piece of music. When Conley Wake and Michael Zani of Dallas were planning their wedding, which took place on Sept. 6 in Kentucky, they wanted to incorporate "You Are My Kind," performed by Carlos Santana and Seal. But they did not know how to dance to a Latin beat, so they took it to a dance instructor, who choreographed a cha-cha for them. They found the five lessons and numerous rehearsals to be a bonding experience. But, Mr. Zani acknowledged, "we were no Fred and Ginger." Still, his wife added, "people loved it." 
While the number of couples who approach the dance floor with serious intent has remained relatively small, Steve Dougherty, a professional ballroom dancer and instructor in Manhattan (917-441-6503), said a revival of interest has begun. The couples' goals are quite modest, though. "They tell me, 'We don't want to look like idiots,' " Mr. Dougherty said. Others, he noted, want their performance to be polished but seem natural. "They say, 'We don't want it to look like we took lessons.' " 
The interest cuts across economic and social boundaries. When James Knopf and Bill Kocis decided to publicly celebrate their relationship in April, Mr. Knopf wanted to make sure "our guests felt comfortable" at what for many was a first same-sex commitment ceremony. "We see so many couples get up there and just sway to some song," he said, "but we wanted to keep in line with the rest of the evening by making our first dance fun and exciting to watch."
So they decided to lead off with a swing dance to an upbeat, jazzy Frank Sinatra and Count Basie tune.
The ebb and flow of interest in first dances often coincides with something seen in a recent film or television show, Ms. Hermanson of Arthur Murray said. "Many people called requesting to learn the tango after 'Scent of a Woman' was released," she said, "because it was so sexy."
But Dr. James M. Harper, the director of the School of Family Life at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, believes there is a deeper motivation. He noted that, possibly subliminally, more and more couples were becoming cognizant that the wedding is not a culmination, but the beginning of a life together, a dance of carefully negotiated steps, executed together and separately. He said, "Their first dance could be emblematic of that understanding."
For others, however, the rationale has more to do with pleasing a tough audience. For their wedding on Nov. 17, Jordana Hochman, a producer at MTV, and Tony Zajkowski, an art director, ruled out rock, in part because they believed their musician friends would never agree on what qualifies "as cool," Mr. Zajkowski said. So they decided to confound them, choosing "Fly Me to the Moon" for their first dance, and then following up with other standards. The choices required significant preparation, so they hired Mr. Dougherty to teach them to do a fox trot with swing steps. 
In rehearsals, Mr. Zajkowski reported that Ms. Hochman was very nervous, whispering, "Don't drop me" during the dip. "But in front of everyone," he said. "She went all the way. People were impressed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: AND A ONE, AND A TWO -- Anna Rabinowicz and Aden Fine perform a minuet, their first dance as husband and wife. (Photo by Christopher Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); DANCE EDUCATION (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); POP & ROCK (73%) Weddings and Engagements; Dancing

PERSON: Gerit Quealy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (88%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



356 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: No, the Millennium Isn't Back, But Gilt-Edged Parties Are 

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE; Julie Bosman contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
THE "21" CLUB on Wednesday night was the picture of a New York Christmas: the town house facade was decked in ribbons, twinkling lights and garlands of green; a white limousine idled in front.
 In the wine cellar, a holiday party of 15 called for more wine -- adding $12,000 to the tab. On the top floor, a party of eight ordered two magnums of 1982 Chateau Latour, at $3,200 each. 
 All of the restaurant's 10 private rooms were booked for holiday parties by law firms, financial companies, a Swedish shipping concern and the New York Stock Exchange.
Richard Wilsker, a partner at McGuireWoods, one of the law firms, sipped Champagne and watched his colleagues mingle around a buffet laden with lobster, oysters and filet mignon. "They'd die if they knew how much this cost," he said with a certain satisfaction. 
On one floor, a piano tinkled; just below it, lawyers boogied to "Stayin' Alive" and belted out karaoke tunes. "Let's get loud!" the D.J. hollered.
The "21" staff was buzzing about the expected arrival of a baby grand piano for a private party that had hired Patti Lupone to entertain holiday guests on Saturday night.
In the week that the Dow closed above 10,000 for the first time in 18 months, a less precise economic indicator, holiday parties, reflected a distinctly new mood in Manhattan. Fur coats were hauled out and town cars reserved. Amid good news about bonuses and employment, diets seemed to be forgotten and Champagne was pouring everywhere. New York, it seems, is entertaining again. Companies are having larger parties and spending more on them; popular venues from the Four Seasons restaurant to nightclubs in Chelsea that have not formally opened yet are reporting that they are fully booked through December.
"Last year, we did not see this kind of action," said Julian Niccolini, an owner of the Four Seasons. "We did not have this kind of tremendous number of people requesting rooms for private parties."
In interviews, caterers and party planners say spending has not reached the level of the late 90's and 2000. There is less caviar and few ice sculptures (the lingering whiff of corporate scandal has ruled out the Kozlowskian vodka-spouting sort). 
Still, two-thirds of party planners surveyed by BiZBash, a magazine for event planners in New York, said they were planning bigger parties for this holiday season than they had for the past two and that companies were giving them bigger budgets for entertaining.
"It's more of a negotiation these days," said Bryan McGuire, the general manager at "21," explaining the new attitude. So while companies may be returning to expensive restaurants, they are also shopping around to get better deals, pressuring spaces to offer more for less.
"They're not going to be quick to go back to the carefree days of 1999 and 2000," Mr. McGuire said.
It is less exuberance, perhaps, than it is a long exhale, a feeling that after two Decembers of uncertainty, Level Orange alerts and gloom, it might be possible to celebrate again.
"I think people were kind of desperate for a good time and to create a sense of normalcy," said David Ziff, who caters mostly private parties. "This is the first year since 9/11 that it feels like a normal year."
Restaurant dining rooms are full, and, according to chefs and owners, people are choosing pricier items from menus and wine lists.
Party business has been somewhat slower to bounce back. In the heyday before 2001, companies and private parties booked caterers in April or May for holiday functions. This year, caterers, restaurants and hotels with function rooms said that even by Labor Day they had few bookings. Calls began coming in October, but not until recently has there been an outpouring.
"They are a bit nervous, then at the last minute, they say, 'We have to do something!' " said Jean-Claude Nedelec, an owner of Glorious Food, one of the city's largest caterers.
For the last two holiday seasons, if companies even had parties, they were often low-budget affairs where the food often ran out before the event did. "Last year, it was an hour of Stoli from 7 to 8," said Nathan Ellis, who handles public relations for clubs and restaurants. "This year it seems like it's full open bar for at least two hours, anything you want."
And those giving parties are not just paying for open bars, they are adding guests at the last minute and asking, with 15 minutes left to go, whether they can tack on another hour of party time. "That never happened last year," said Mark Grossich, the owner of Hospitality Holdings Inc., which is reporting a 25 percent increase in business this season at its three main properties: the Campbell Apartment, the World Bar and the Carnegie Club. Last year, Mr. Grossich said, people would settle for minimum appetizers. Now they want filet mignon and black sesame-crusted tuna. "Wall Street fuels a lot of this," he said. "When they're making money, it seems everyone else is making money."
McGuireWoods, one of the law firms at the "21" Club, went to a cheaper restaurant last year. "I wanted people to feel like they were really celebrating," said Bill Newman, the managing partner of the New York office. "People want to be upbeat. Last year, they were still living under the cloud of 9/11. It was a one-two punch, 9/11 and then the downturn in the economy. Now there's a lot more upbeat news for people to seize on."
Mr. Wilsker said the firm's business reflected an uptick. "A year ago, deals were dying," he said. "Stuff's happening again. Is it alive? No, but it's not dead anymore."
At a holiday party for children given by Avenue magazine and Donald Trump at his new condominium development in the former Delmonico Hotel, toy soldiers lock-stepped in and out of rooms as waiters passed trays laden with white roses and sushi. Tables in the main room were filled with caviar, salmon, pomegranate punch and Champagne.
"There's nothing that not's better," said Pamela Gross, the editorial director of Avenue magazine. "The economy is better, 9/11 is farther away, people feel safer -- maybe wrongly so. But we're allowed to live again."
Others, too, said the talk of Sept. 11 has faded somewhat. 
"Last year, when I was working at the Rainbow Room, people didn't want to go up that high," said Katie Kannapell, the banquet manager at Cipriani 42nd Street. "There were still terrorist threats." This year, she said, "I haven't heard a single word about it."
And the mood looks to be continuing. Caterers and event spaces say they are already booked heavily for January and February, traditionally slow months. "I'm getting a lot of calls for bookings in March, April and May, I didn't get that last year," said Bryan Jacobson at Corporate Events Manhattan. 
Some companies, in fact, are holding their holiday parties in January, thinking they will get better prices and have a better chance for guests to attend. Corcoran Real Estate will hold its holiday party on Jan. 14. Mr. Jacobson, who is planning the event, said last year's guest list was about 775, this year's is more than 1,000.
The party will transform Crobar, a new Chelsea club, into three distinct environments, reflecting Corcoran's three homes: West Palm Beach, New York City and the Hamptons. 
Still, despite the current surge in entertaining, most caterers and event planners say things are not back to their heyday levels. "They are not what I would call showoff parties," said Mr. Nedelec of Glorious Food. "People don't want to be seen spending a lot of money."
Indeed, the age of exuberance may be over permanently, buried beneath corporate scandal.
As Dana Hammond, a guest at the Trump party, noted wistfully, "Sam Waksal won't be having his party this year."

GRAPHIC: Photos: LET ME HEAR YOU SAY 'YEAH' -- A law firm celebrates Christmas at a party at the "21" Club. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 1); CHEER -- Above, soldiers at a Donald Trump party for children. A real estate party, top, and at left, a law firm's party at "21." (Photo by above,Monika Graff for The New York Times; top and left, Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); CATERING SERVICES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (64%); STOCK EXCHANGES (55%); SCANDALS (50%) Christmas; Parties (Social)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); MCGUIREWOODS LLP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (59%) Kate Zernike

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



357 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Forecasts Are Upbeat For the Israeli Market

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIMELMAN

 BODY:
THE Nasdaq stock market, heavy with technology stocks, is having its best year since 1999. So is the Israeli market, also dominated by tech issues, many of which trade on American stock exchanges.
 Israeli companies like Check Point Software Technologies, a leading provider of Internet security systems, and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, one of the world's largest makers of generic drugs, operate globally, and their share prices have been largely insulated from the effects of terrorism and political strife in Israel. 
 The Tel Aviv-100 index has gained 52 percent this year, and 65 percent when converted into dollars. That compares with gains of 46 percent for the Nasdaq and 28 percent for the MSCI EAFE index, a broad international benchmark that tracks markets in Europe and Asia. 
 Despite the market's lofty perch, some analysts are upbeat about its chances for the year ahead. 
 "We are cautiously optimistic regarding Israeli equities, given an improving macroeconomic backdrop for the market from both a global and domestic perspective," says Neil Gregson, Credit Suisse's global head of emerging markets equities and the interim chief investment officer for the First Israel fund, a closed-end stock portfolio. Still, Mr. Gregson said, "We do not anticipate a repeat move of close to 60 percent gains next year."
 After a recession in 2001 and 2002, Israel's economy has begun to recover and is expected to grow about 2 percent in 2004, said Annabel Betz, an economic analyst at Credit Suite Asset Management in New York. 
 That should help shares of banks, telecommunication companies and other businesses that cater to the Israeli economy, although they remain vulnerable to terrorism. But several mutual fund managers who focus on Israel said that more globally oriented companies were less affected by local problems. 
 "The fact that the streets of Jerusalem may be empty doesn't impact whether the Mayo Clinic is buying more or less antibiotics made by Teva Pharmaceutical or whether Southwest Bell is using a billing software program made by Amdocs Ltd.," said Clifford A. Goldstein, the president of Amidex Mutual Funds. Amdocs is a software company that is incorporated in the Channel Islands and trades primarily on the New York Stock Exchange, but it maintains its research and development operations in Israel. 
 Amidex, of Norristown, Pa., manages a fund tied to the Amidex 35, an index of companies with Israeli roots that trade on exchanges in New York and Tel Aviv. 
 Export-oriented Israeli companies maintained production and shipment schedules during the height of the war in Iraq, Mr. Goldstein said. 
 Ms. Betz of Credit Suisse said, "The decision to invest in these companies is influenced more by product cycles and company specifics, not geopolitics or terrorism risk."
 Exporters have benefited from a relatively weak currency. The shekel has lost ground in the last year against the euro and has gained less than many other currencies against the dollar. That has helped keep pay raises modest, at least in comparison with those in the United States. The average software and systems engineer in Israel was paid about $55,000 in 2002, versus $79,000 for engineers in Silicon Valley, according to Shlomo S. Eplboim, chairman of the Blue and White fund, which focuses on Israeli stocks.
 Mr. Eplboim says that because shares of companies like Teva and Check Point are richly priced, he is looking for smaller, less well-known businesses. He is a fan of Elbit Systems, which trades on the Nasdaq and Tel Aviv exchanges. The company, which generated $827.5 million in revenue last year, makes military equipment, including helmet-mounted vision systems and weapons delivery systems.
 "This is a medium-sized company in a giant, growing market," said Mr. Eplboim, who has added recently to his position in the stock. Elbit accounts for more than a quarter of the Blue and White fund's 's stock portfolio.The company, which trades at $15.45 on Nasdaq, has declined 1.7 percent this year. 
 Mr. Eplboim also said he likes Nice Systems Ltd., which produces hardware and software used by corporations and law enforcement agencies to record and monitor phone calls.
 Nice's revenue climbed 49 percent for the first nine months this year, to $167 million, compared with the period a year earlier. "That was far better than I expected," he said. The stock is up 137 percent this year.
 Credit Suisse policy prohibits Mr. Gregson from discussing individual stocks held by the First Israel fund, but he said he was bullish on the banking sector, because Israel's central bank has been lowering short-term interest rates. As of Sept. 30, the fund's biggest bank positions were Bank Hapoalim and Bank Leumi.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Neck and Neck"The Israeli stock market, which is dominated by technology stocks, has performed similarly to the Nasdaq recently. Graph tracks Tel Aviv-100 and Nasdaq Composite since January. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); TERRORISM (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); BONDS (73%); ANTIBIOTICS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EURO (60%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (57%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (57%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (84%); AMDOCS LTD (82%); CHECK POINT SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGIES LTD (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: TEVA (TASE) (84%); TEVA (NYSE) (84%); DOX (NYSE) (82%); CHKP (NASDAQ) (58%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: John Kimelman

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (88%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (56%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



358 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1033 words

PERSON: William D. Novelli 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
At AARP, Pushing for Change

BYLINE:  By GAY JERVEY

 BODY:
ON an afternoon not long ago, all eyes at the Manhattan office of Brown Lloyd James, a public relations firm, were riveted to the door that led to the pantry and bathroom. A client of the firm, William D. Novelli, the executive director and chief executive of AARP, had unintentionally locked himself inside. 
 While one employee tried to free Mr. Novelli with a credit card, another searched frantically for a telephone number for a locksmith. Shouts of "Hang in there, Bill" and "He's trapped!" were heard in the halls. 
 One employee, a strapping, 6-foot-2 former high school football player, finally kicked down the door. Mr. Novelli emerged, looking slightly bemused, but otherwise no worse for wear. 
 "Some people would have been bothered if that had happened to them," said Alan Wheat, who is president of Wheat Government Relations Inc., when told the story. "But I'm sure while he was stuck in there, Bill was planning the next step in some campaign," said Mr. Wheat, a former congressman from Missouri, who has known Mr. Novelli for more than a decade. "He's a very direct, let's-get-it-done, results-oriented person." 
 Maybe so, but Mr. Novelli says he is also claustrophobic. "I was thinking to myself, be calm, breathe deeply," he said. "And I was trying to figure out if I could break this door down with the fire extinguisher that was on the wall. Those were my two thoughts -- breathing deeply and breaking down the door. How would Arnold Schwarzenegger handle this?" 
 Claustrophobia aside, Mr. Novelli, 62, is no stranger to difficult situations. Most recently, he took heat when AARP, the advocacy group for people 50 and older, endorsed the Republican-backed Medicare bill. Some of the organization's more than 35 million members burned their membership cards or sent angry e-mail messages to the AARP headquarters in Washington.
 Of the issue, Mr. Novelli said: "The AARP is a nonpartisan organization. But it has traditionally leaned left, because its agenda and the Democratic Party's agenda have tended to be somewhat similar. Lately, I've been quoting Kermit the Frog, saying 'It ain't easy being green.' Well, it's not easy being in the middle, either, which is where we are -- between the two parties and the two extremes. It can get rough in there." 
 Mr. Novelli, who joined AARP as associate executive director in 2000 and became chief executive June 2001, started his career marketing detergent at Lever Brothers in the 1960's. In 1972, he founded Porter Novelli, a public relations firm which, at the time, specialized in social marketing -- applying commercial marketing techniques to social issues. 
 Bob Druckenmiller, the retired chief executive of Porter Novelli, said: "Ninety-nine percent of what we did in the first 10 years was social marketing for clients like the National Institutes of Health. To this day, I think if you ask who was the leading definer of social marketing as it is practiced, it would be Bill Novelli. Many others are into it now, but he was the intellectual and spiritual leader of that whole effort in the private sector." 
 Mr. Novelli said that after retiring from Porter Novelli in 1990, he wanted a second career in public service. To that end, he became executive vice president of CARE, one of the world's largest private relief and development organizations. In 1995, he became the president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. 
 "Bill is a visionary and a strategist," said Dr. John R. Seffrin, chief executive of the American Cancer Society, who was the first chairman of the campaign's board. "I have worked with other people with great vision, but they still may not have the experience and discipline to be the strategist to get you to that vision." 
 Mr. Novelli said: "I think of myself as a mission-driven person. I think having a mission makes you want to get up and go to work in the morning." 
 When Mr. Novelli became chief executive of AARP, he set three goals.
 "The first was to be the most successful organization in America for positive social change," he said. "And the second one was to fulfill a promise to each member to help them make choices and reach their goals and dreams and to make the most of life after 50. And the third one was to be a world leader in global aging." 
 He has spent much of the last year focusing on that third goal. With members of his staff, he traveled several times to Germany and England, meeting with policy makers, scholars and other opinion leaders. 
 Next year, he will make similar trips to Italy and the Netherlands, and return to Germany and England. He will also attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, where he will discuss pension revision. 
 "I want to make 2004 the year of the older worker," he said. 
 Because Western Europe is farther along on the "aging curve," he said, he hopes to learn from it about issues like long-term care. "In this country, long-term care is a mess," he said. 
 Western Europe can learn from the United States, he said, about employment discrimination. "We have research indicating that more and more people are planning to work into their older years," he continued. "A lot of these European cultures have very few antecedents in terms of older workers. They have this tradition of working and then getting out. And now they don't have enough workers." 
 DOMESTICALLY, he is seeking a more strategic approach to AARP's corporate partnerships. 
 AARP recently began working with Home Depot, which approached it for help in finding older people as employees. The organization is also talking to Procter & Gamble about joint programs. P&G, for example, might help sponsor events, including triathlons and other programs that encourage exercise. "One of the things I'm most concerned about is how do you get people to be physically active," said Mr. Novelli, who is an avid jogger and is often spotted at the AARP gym. "That is one way to cut down on the costs of care and improve quality of life." 
 His admirers predict that he will get what he wants. "Things happen when Bill Novelli takes the reins," said Mr. Wheat, the former congressman. "He wants real, practical results that translate into making a difference in people's lives."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Medicare battle was just the start. William D. Novelli, chief of AARP, has three big goals for the group. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MEDICARE (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); POLITICS (68%) Aged; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%) Aarp

ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (52%) NOVELLI, WILLIAM D. ; William D Novelli; Gay Jervey

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



359 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF; 
Of Secrets, Shame and Solace

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
CONFESSION, though perhaps good for the soul, is not generally good for the bank account, as any white-collar defendant facing a costly lawsuit well knows. But some enterprising authors apparently think that tell-all memoirs about how besotted and greedy they were during the stock market bubble will be the exception to the rule -- that, by confessing to their own dot-com foolishness, they can recoup some of the hard cash that their foolishness cost them.
 We've already seen "A Mathematician Plays the Stock Market" by John Allen Paulos, in which the author, who has written sprightly books like "Innumeracy," looks for mathematical lessons in his WorldCom losses. And there is "Taking Stock: A Spiritual Guide to Rising Above Life's Financial Ups and Downs," by Rabbi Benjamin Blech, who looks for philosophical lessons in his tech-stock losses. 
 And next month, we will have "American Sucker," by David Denby (Little, Brown). But Mr. Denby, a film critic for The New Yorker and the author of the elegant "Great Books," is not looking for marketable lessons in his market losses. He's looking for the life we lived, for the dreams we lost, for something that will last among so much that did not. He puts it much better: "I offer the book not as market history but as a portrait of a single American living within money obsession during the first three years of the millennium -- a wild, dangerous and, finally, tragic era in which hope, folly and disenchantment came together in amazed combinations, as if none had ever been aware of the others' existence before."
 The result is a wondrous, riveting book that blends a sort of Woody Allen whimsy with the gut-punch honesty of some sensitive relative's secret diary, unearthed from the bottom drawer. 
 Mr. Denby's reflections on his personal ride on the bubble machine are sometimes almost too sad to bear. It's like watching a dignified grown-up weep, unconsoled, in public. Without being maudlin or cheap, he reveals the breakup of his marriage, his lonely pursuit of online pornography, his cherishing of his two sons and his obsession with his iconic Upper West Side apartment, which came to represent the happy family life that was slipping away from him. His desire to hold onto that sliver of real estate -- for what it stood for drove his search for riches in the marketplace. Somehow, he manages to make that ambition seem poignant, not pointless.
 Looking for answers, he asks a lot of the right questions about the bubbly entrepreneurs he so admired: "What was in me that had made me blind for so long -- blind to what was obviously wrong with these guys? I was attracted to the vaunting ambition, mesmerized by the reckless desire for fame and wealth and an obvious disdain for rules, proofs, cautions." 
 But having been attracted by that insouciant contempt for society's rules, how could he -- we -- have been so astonished to learn, at last, that a lot of rules had been broken? Which prompted him to wonder: "Is there something inescapably criminal in the process of quickly raising money for a new enterprise?" No, he decided, "there's something escapably criminal" about that process, that requires "regulators, prosecutors and an ethics that the ambitious and wealthy will live by."
 His reaction to the corporate scandals that cascaded down after the bubble burst are almost comic in their antic anger. At one point, he writes, he sat in his office, where the floor was covered with defunct glossy magazines about defunct glossy companies, and observed that he "was saying dumb things to myself like 'I may have lost almost $1 million, but at least I still have my job and my reputation and I'm not going to the slammer."'
 AND not even Woody Allen could have concocted his extraordinary moral recipe for being rich in America, which he calls "ethics for big shots." It would be a sin to spoil it by revealing the calculus here.
 What will be talked about most, beyond his nightly doses of online porn with a NyQuil chaser, will probably be the fiercely acute portraits -- more like social and moral C.T. scans, actually -- of Henry Blodget, the cheerleading Internet analyst; Samuel Waksal, the disgraced founder of ImClone Systems, convicted of securities fraud; and George Gilder, the Pied Piper of telecommunications investors.
 He identified deeply with Mr. Blodget, chatted with him several times and was bereft at his feckless fall. He kept checking back with him, trying to fill in the blanks that he saw in "the unfinished portion of his face." After a surreal meeting in a downtown cafe, in which the unemployed analyst kept putting on and taking off his sweater, Mr. Denby walked back uptown "with a stone in my heart." Mr. Blodget "was trying to be straight, and not quite making it," he wrote, adding: "He couldn't be straight without admitting that his ratings were a fraud. He kept taking that sweater on and off because he no longer knew who he was -- a young employee following orders and therefore an aggrieved fellow, unfairly scapegoated for others' sins; an opportunist making a quick fortune; or a trapped man preparing a legal defense." 
 On Mr. Waksal, whose salon-style parties he attended regularly, he writes: "The lowest estimate of Sam's recklessness was that he betrayed cancer patients for a loft, a few paintings, a house in the Hamptons and a whiff of celebrity. The highest estimate -- mine -- was that he was intellectually, morally and emotionally incapable of facing the truth and by degrees slipped into fraud rather than admit he had screwed up."
 He caught Mr. Gilder holding forth at his annual Telecosm conference in September 2000, where he "sawed the air up and down with his arms, or thrust them outward from his body like the blades of a retractable forklift." 
 Mr. Gilder, at 60, was "tall and slender, with glasses and thinning straight hair and a fine straight nose, and he radiated abounding authority and ardor."
 "When he spoke, he had a thistle-dry New England twang and habits of fervent, spasmodic eloquence," Mr. Denby adds. "Listening to him, you might be in the presence of an erratically brilliant Calvinist minister from about 1790, although it was not hell that Gilder promised to his listeners but a vision of heaven on earth in which time would never be wasted."
 But Mr. Denby is his own best character, just foolish enough to prompt us to think we would have coped much better, but still human enough to make us suspect, late at night, that we probably wouldn't have. 
 Or even that perhaps we actually didn't.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); LITIGATION (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LITERATURE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); FAMILY (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Biographical Information; Books and Literature

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%)

PERSON: DENBY, DAVID ; Diana B Henriques; David Denby

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



360 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots of New York: 1993 and 2003 

BYLINE:  Reporting for this page was provided by Michael Molyneux, Kimetris N. Baltrip, Flora Lee, Michelle O'Donnell, Campbell Robertson, C. J. Satterwhite and Daniel B. Schneider.

 BODY:
 There's more parkland, and there are more buildings named Trump. There are fewer X-rated emporiums in Times Square, fewer foreign tourists and not a single Checker cab. By measures large and small, New York 2003 wears a far different face than it had when the City section made its debut.

LIFE IN THE BIG CITY

Checker cabs on New York streets
1993: 10
2003: 0

Foreign-born population
1993: 31 percent (estimated)
2003: 37 percent (estimated)

White non-Hispanic population
1993: 41 percent (estimated)
2003: 33 percent (estimated)

Cost (approximate) of a pack of cigarettes
1993: $2.30
2003: $7.50

Ferry routes
1993: 8
2003: 26

Jet Blue Airlines flights departing Kennedy Airport
1993: 0
2003: 82 daily

Major felonies reported
1993: 430,460
2003: 132,584 (as of Nov. 30)

Cab fare from Empire State Building to Bronx Zoo
1993: $15.50 (No traffic or tip)
2003: $18.80

Cost of a parking ticket
1993: $55
2003: $115

Passenger car toll, Lincoln Tunnel
1993: $4
2003: $6

Average weekday subway ridership
1993: 3.5 million
2003: 4.5 million (as of Sept. 30)

MetroCards sold annually
1993: 0
2003: 184 million (as of Dec. 2)

Average distance subway cars travel between breakdowns
1993: 52,403 miles
2003: 138,201 (as of Sept. 30)

Acres of city parkland
1993: 26,023
2003: 28,640

Most popular names for newborns
1993: Michael, Ashley
2003: Michael, Ashley

Number of active Roman Catholic priests in Diocese of Brooklyn
1993: 511
2003: 379
(Not counting those in religious orders or visiting priests. Includes Brooklyn and Queens)

Number of Roman Catholics in Diocese of Brooklyn
1993: 1,602,763
2003: 1,824,642
(Includes Brooklyn and Queens)

A popular cosmetic procedure
1993: Gycolic acid peel (takes off layers of old skin)
2003: Cosmoderm (a human collagen line filler)

New Yorkers who expected the city to be a better place to live in 10 to 15 years
1993: 22 percent
2003: 34 percent

New Yorkers who rated the city's economy as bad
1993: 65 percent
2003: 73 percent

New Yorkers who were bothered "a lot" by panhandlers
1993: 29 percent
2003: 22 percent

Public school enrollment
1993: 994,760 (as of Oct. 31, 1992)
2003: 1,091,717 (as of Oct. 31, 2002)

Alternative public high schools
1993: 81
2003: 101

Tuition at Wagner College, Staten Island
1993: $12,500
2003: $22,600

Uniformed members of the Fire Department
1993: 11,235 (as of Dec. 31)
2003: 10,937 (as of Nov. 24)

Uniformed female members of the Fire Department
1993: 35 (as of Dec. 31)
2003: 24 (as of Nov. 24)

Miles of Water Tunnel No. 3 completed
1993: 13 (out of 60)
2003: 23.5

Number of mosques (estimated)
1993: 90
2003: 140

AT PLAY

The fair market value of the Yankees
1993: $166 million
2003: $849 million

Nickname of St. John's University men's basketball team
1993: The Redmen
2003: The Red Storm

Final record of St. John's University men's basketball team
1993: 19-11
2003: 21-13

Entrants in New York City Marathon
1993: 28,140
2003: 35,286

Percentage of finshers in New York City Marathon
1993: 94.5
2003: 98.4

Runners named Diddy in New York City Marathon
1993: 0
2003: 1

Number of tourists, domestic
1993: 25 million
2003: 31 million (estimated)

Number of tourists, international
1993: 5.3 million
2003: 4.9 million (estimated)

A ride on the Coney Island Cyclone
1993: $3.50
2003: $5

MEDIA AND THE ARTS

Feature films shot on location in the city
1993: 69
2003: 180

Maximum number of cable channels available in Manhattan
1993: 75
2003: 420

Most requested first dance at weddings
1993: "I Will Always Love You" (Whitney Houston)
2003: "At Last" (Etta James)

An important band that played at CBGB
1993: The Goo Goo Dolls
2003: The Strokes

A notable movie at Film Forum
1993: "The War Room," a documentary about the 1992 Clinton campaign
2003: "My Architect," a documentary about Louis Kahn

Businesses selling pornography in the Times Square area
1993: 43
2003: 13

Broadway shows featuring nudity
1993: 1
2003: 4

Letters to the editor received by The New York Times in an average day
1993: 150 (estimated)
2003: 1,000 (estimated)

Notable New York author
1993: Jerry Seinfeld ("Seinlanguage")
2003: Jonathan Lethem ("The Fortress of Solitude")

ODDS AND ENDS

Color changes in night lighting of Empire State Building
1993: 25
2003: 40 (scheduled)

Lawbreaker who dared to dream
1993: Keron Thomas, 16, who took an A train for a spin through Brooklyn, Manhattan and Queens
2003: Antoine Yates, who raised a 400-pound tiger in a Harlem apartment

Notable weather event
1993: Record 20 days of 90-degree heat in July
2003: Snowstorm of 19.8 inches, third heaviest on record (Feb. 16-17)

A phrase heard on city streets
1993: "Take a Prozac"
2003: "My bad"

Unscheduled blimp landings in Midtown
1993: 1
2003: 0 (so far)

THE BASICS

Licensed sidewalk cafes
1993: 276
2003: About 700

New building permits
1993: (fiscal year): 1,696
2003: (fiscal year): 5,693

Men's fashion milestone
1993: Men wearing kilts on Fifth Avenue
2003: "Bravehearts: Men in Skirts" show at Metropolitan Museum

Women's fashion milestone
1993: Exposing the navel on Fifth Avenue
2003: Exposing the navel, plus about 10 inches either way

A hot new restaurant
1993: Daniel
2003: Rocco's on 22nd

A trendy cuisine
1993: Mediterranean
2003: Homey, less expensive

Winners of Nathan's hot dog eating contest
1993: Michael (the Scholar) Devito, 18 hot dogs and buns in 12 minutes
2003: Takeru (the Tsunami) Kobayashi, 44 1/2 in 12 minutes

Average price of brownstone, Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn
1993: $108,000.
2003: $479,000

Quart of Bud at Farrell's bar, Park Slope, Brooklyn
1993: $2.50
2003: $3.75

Average daily rate for a Manhattan hotel room
1993: $132
2003: $187 (estimated)

Hotel occupancy rate
1993: 68 percent
2003: 76 percent (estimated)

Buildings that carry Donald Trump's name
1993: 4
2003: 14

Permits for sidewalk sheds (raised platforms overhead)
1993: (fiscal year): 1,378
2003: (fiscal year): 3,785

Porterhouse for one at Peter Luger Steak House
1993: $26.25
2003: $35.95

Krispy Kreme stores
1993: 0
2003: 5

Adult obesity
1993: 13.4 percent
2003: 20.7 percent

(SOURCES by Population: Department of City Planning, from census figures Ferries: City Department of Transportation Crime: New York Police Department Cab fare: Taxi and Limousine Commission Parking ticket: City Department of Finance Subways: New York City Transit Baby names, obesity: City Department of Health Roman Catholics: The Official Catholic Directory Cosmetic procedure: Dr. Debra Jaliman, dermatologist on Fifth Avenue Poll data: The New York Times Poll Schools: City Department of Education Water tunnel: City Department of Environmental Protection Mosques: Louis Abdellatif Cristillo, Columbia University Films: Mayors Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting Cable: Harriet Novet, vice president, Time Warner Cable of New York City Wedding dance: Kameleon Orchestra CBGB: Hilly Kristal, owner Film Forum: Karen Cooper, director, Film Forum Pornography, Broadway shows: Times Square Business Improvement District Letters to The New York Times: Thomas Feyer, letters editor Weather: Stephen Fybish, weather historian Phrase: Jeffrey McQuain, author of Coined by God Yankees: Forbes magazine Marathon: New York Road Runners Club Tourists: NYC & Company Cafes: Department of Consumer Affairs Building permits, sidewalk sheds: City Department of Buildings Fashion: Bill Cunningham, street fashion photographer, The New York Times Restaurants, cuisine: Kris Ensminger, compiler, Good Eating column Nathans: International Federation of Competitive Eating Brownstone: The Corcoran Group Brooklyn Hotels: PKF Consulting Trump buildings: The Trump Organization)

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Sean Kelly) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%); CITY LIFE (77%); TUITION FEES (74%); FERRIES (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (72%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (64%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (61%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); FELONIES (53%) Nineteen Hundred Ninety-Three; Two Thousand Three (Year)

PERSON: Michaels Molyneux; Kimetris N Baltrip; Flora Lee; Michelle O'donnell; Campbell Robertson; C J Satterwhite; Daniel B Schneider

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



361 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Rarely Much Applause for Those Minding the Store

BYLINE:  By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
 Lately, it seems, it's been a scandal-a-day merry-go-round. Enron. WorldCom. Martha. Naturally, public confidence in those pulling the strings in business and finance has plummeted to new depths, right? 
 Not really. Oh, its low all right -- but people have had a dismal opinion of business before. In 1973, according to a Harris Interactive study, a third of Americans had "hardly any" confidence in those running big companies -- a slightly higher figure than was found most recently. If any period was the exception, it was the wild 90's, when far more people were likely to say the bosses were doing just fine. No surprise there: people thought they were making real money on companies' stocks, though it was often just a huge, shimmering mirage. HUBERT B. HERRING

GRAPHIC: Charts Percent of people responding that they have "hardly any" confidence in people running major companies: Graph tracks percentages since 1966 (data not available for some years). RETAIL SALESGraph tracks weekly Redbook average year-over-year change since June. NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSGraph tracks weekly year-over-year change since June. CLOTHING PRICESGraph tracks change in Consumer Price Index from November 2002 to October 2003. PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSGraph tracks weekly totals in thousands since June. ONLINE SALESGraph tracks weekly dollars in billions since June. HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESGraph tracks daily four-week moving average for Los Angeles, Chicago, and New York from June through Dec. 6. (Sources by Harris Interactive via American Enterprise Institute; Redbook Research retail sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics clothing prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; Smith Travel Research hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: Executives and Management; Public Opinion

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Harris Interactive

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: Hubert B Herring

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



362 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 736 words

PERSON: David P. Weikart 

HEADLINE: David P. Weikart, 72, Education Expert, Dies 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
David P. Weikart, who did important studies of early childhood education that are widely cited as evidence that programs like Head Start can have long-term benefits, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Saline, Mich. He was 72.
 The cause was leukemia, his son James said. Dr. Weikart lived in Clinton, Mich. 
 A study by the foundation Dr. Weikart founded, High/Scope Educational Research Foundation in Ypsilanti, Mich., has played a large role in debates about Head Start and other early childhood programs for a generation. It concluded that the benefits of preschool can be measured in dollars as a child ages.
"David Weikart is one of the true fathers of early childhood education in America," Edward Zigler, director of the Yale Center in Child Development and Social Policy, said in an interview.
Dr. Zigler said Dr. Weikart took a courageous chance that his experiment would sabotage his own faith in early education.
In 1962, in what was known as the Perry Preschool Project, Dr. Weikart took 123 low-income 3- and 4-year-olds and placed 58 in a preschool with highly trained, well-paid teachers who made weekly visits to parents. The rest received no extra attention. 
He then followed the children through life, regularly checking on them. A report on the former preschoolers at the age of 40 is to be released in the spring.
The results have been consistently impressive. The former preschoolers were more likely to own homes and earn more than $2,000 a month, less likely to receive welfare or be arrested for crimes. Mothers were more often married.
Dr. Weikart's economic analysis was new to the field. He found that $15,000 in inflation-adjusted dollars was spent on each child, while the savings to schools, welfare, prisons and potential crime victims exceeded $145,000.
These results were duplicated in studies in North Carolina and Chicago, and the findings became a major element in the national discussion about Head Start, the federal preschool program begun in 1964.
James Heckman, a University of Chicago economist and Nobel laureate, in preparing a forthcoming book on the economic effects of human development, said in an interview that Dr. Weikart's work was unprecedented in the duration and intensity of its observations. In particular, he said, it proved the importance of teaching character traits like responsible decision-making at a very early age.
"We have yet to fully draw from his vision," Dr. Heckman said.
David Powell Weikart was born on Aug. 31, 1931, in Youngstown, Ohio, and graduated from Oberlin College. After serving in the Marines, he oversaw special education in Ypsilanti, a Detroit suburb, while pursuing a Ph.D. at the University of Michigan. He began his research to find out why some students needed remedial education.
An early difficulty was persuading parents to let their children participate. At the time fewer than 10 percent of America's children, few of them poor, were in any sort of preschool, Dr. Barnett said.
Another breakthrough was taking a longer perspective on success or failure, Dr. Zigler said. Preschool's sole goal then was readiness for school.
Dr. Weikart and his colleague Dr. Lawrence J. Schwienhart did the same experiment on five succeeding waves of children, satisfying themselves and many others that early education mattered immensely.
Dr. Weikart next studied different educational models for preschools, settling on one that emphasized social and emotional development. His foundation spread it around the world.
Even as Dr. Weikart expanded his research to adolescents, he never lost track of his initial subjects. "If he had to fly to Germany to get a kid, David put somebody on a plane and sent them over there," Dr. Barnett said.
Dr. Weikart is survived by his wife, the former Phyllis Saxton; four daughters, Cynthia Embry of Clinton, Catherine Yeckel of Hamden, Conn., Jennifer Danko of Vermilion, Ohio, and Gretchen Weikart of Howell, Mich.; two brothers, Hubert, of Lake St. Louis, Mo., and James, of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.; a sister, Emily Burde of Plattsburgh, N.Y.; and six grandchildren.
Partly on the strength of Dr. Weikart's research, Georgia and Oklahoma have established preschool for all 4-year-olds. Dr. Weikart strove to make it universal, but only if financing, particularly teachers' pay, is sufficient.
"Otherwise we will have wasted the money," he said in an interview with Fortune in 1987, "and we should've built prisons instead."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David P. Weikart (Photo by High/Scope Foundation, 2002) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (92%); CHILDREN (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ARRESTS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); LEUKEMIA (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); NOBEL PRIZES (63%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: HIGH/SCOPE EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH FOUNDATION (57%)

Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (86%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



363 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1834 words

HEADLINE: Political Savvy Gets U.S. Flags On Foreign Ship 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
For the first time in 50 years, a cruise ship flying the American flag will soon be sailing the seas. There will be no mistaking it for anything but an all-American vessel. It will be named Pride of America. Red and white stripes, blue stars and a huge bald eagle will decorate its hull. Its public rooms will strike a patriotic theme: the Liberty restaurant, the Capitol Atrium, Jefferson's Bistro, the John Adams Coffee Bar. 
 As an American-flagged vessel in an industry dominated by foreign lines, Pride of America will qualify under United States law for a special privilege: permission to cruise lucrative routes solely between American ports, mainly in the Hawaiian islands, that are off limits to foreign vessels. 
 But the Pride of America is not what it seems. The ship is actually being built in a German shipyard and is owned by Norwegian Cruise Line, a subsidiary of Star Cruises, which has its headquarters in Hong Kong and is run out of its offices in Malaysia; Star Cruises is in turn a unit of Genting Berhad, a holding company in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
How this vessel and two sister cruise ships owned by the same company came to qualify as American is the story of one foreign company's growing sophistication in the ways of Washington, where American companies usually have the edge.
With platoons of lobbyists, including a former senator from Washington State, and contributions to important members of Congress, Norwegian Cruise persuaded Congress to approve its entry into a protected American market in the fine print of a big appropriations bill passed this year. The company's competitors, long eager for the privileges, are fuming. 
The battle over the Pride of America is only the latest in a long tale of pork barrel politics that began with an unsuccessful effort by Congress to kick-start the American shipbuilding industry. 
It started four years ago with a $1 billion federal program, called Project America, that was to have revived the American industry building cruise ships, at a shipyard in Pascagoula, Miss. The project was spearheaded by Trent Lott, the Mississippi Republican and, at the time, the Senate majority leader. His father once worked in the shipyard where the Project America ships were to be built.
But after costing the government $180 million, Project America failed. All that was left was the half-finished hull of one cruise liner and pieces of another. The project was over budget; the cruise ship company involved in it, American Classic Voyages, had gone bankrupt; and the government was left trying to sell unfinished goods that no one seemed to want. 
No one, that is, except for Norwegian Cruise, which paid $24 million and hauled the half-finished hull that is to become Pride of America and 400 containers of parts for a second ship to a shipyard in Bremerhaven, Germany. The hull is now under final construction, and the ship is expected to sail in time for the Fourth of July 2004. 
But the real work was in Washington. Congress had to be persuaded to allow the Pride of America and two other cruise ships to sail under the American flag. The other ships are the Pride of Aloha, a German-built ship that today is the Norwegian Sky but will soon be renamed, and the third ship, which Norwegian Cruise plans to build soon in Bremerhaven from the 400 containers of parts.
As American ships, these three vessels could benefit from a century-old law, the Jones Act, intended to protect the American shipbuilding industry by barring foreign carriers from cruising domestic routes. As a result, while Norwegian Cruise's rivals in the Hawaiian market have to touch base in a foreign port, generally Mexico or Canada, thousands of miles and five sailing days away, the Pride of America, Pride of Aloha and the third ship will be able to island-hop in the fast-growing Hawaiian market without having to put in at a foreign port.
In Congress, Norwegian Cruise's biggest friend was the Hawaiian delegation, drawn by the company's promise that it would create 10,000 jobs in Hawaii -- on the ships and in the tourist trade. The lure of jobs was so great that Senator Daniel K. Inouye and Representative Neil Abercrombie, both Hawaii Democrats, became Norwegian Cruise's strongest Congressional allies and had a provision allowing the three ships to be designated American inserted into the Omnibus Appropriations Act for 2003.
That provision allows Norwegian Cruise to put American flags on the two unfinished ships once they are completed as well as turning Norwegian Sky into the Pride of Aloha. 
The provision was approved last February with little public discussion and no Congressional hearings.
"This caught the entire maritime industry by surprise," said Allen Walker, president of the Shipbuilders Council of America, a trade group based in Washington. "We didn't like it, but we were not able to stop it. We don't think this was done correctly, without debate and virtually late at night. But it was done."
On Capitol Hill, Norwegian Cruise, whose American office is in Miami, was helped by a team of lobbyists, including a former three-term Republican senator from Washington, Slade Gorton. It cost the company $880,000 to lobby for the provision this year, according to federal lobbying records.
In addition, even though foreign companies are barred from making political contributions in the United States, the president of Norwegian Cruise, Colin Veitch, who is an American based in Miami, gave a total of $20,000 to the Democratic Party of Hawaii and to Representative Abercrombie, who led the fight for the company.
Senator Inouye also received $2,000 from Mr. Veitch and $4,000 from Lamar B. Cooler, the company's chief financial officer, also of Miami.
Another example of Norwegian Cruise's activity in the political world came a few weeks ago when the company offered one of its New York-based ships, the Norwegian Dawn, for use by Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, and other Republicans as a floating entertainment center during next year's Republican convention.
Although that offer was withdrawn, it showed that Norwegian Cruise was able to play politics at the highest level.
"We're seeing a lot of foreign companies that are learning to play the political game," said Larry Noble, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit group in Washington that collects campaign finance data. "The fact the Republicans pulled out of the deal because of local opposition doesn't reflect badly on N.C.L. N.C.L. was there when the Republicans needed them."
For critics of the cruise ship arrangement -- the most vocal being Senator John McCain -- this is just an example of one boondoggle program begetting another. Norwegian Cruise's competitors, too, are left grumbling, as well as having their Hawaiian passengers spend up to 10 days back and forth on open seas.
"This provides an unfair competitive advantage to N.C.L. at the expense of all other cruise ship operators," Mr. McCain, an Arizona Republican, said. "No other company will be allowed to operate foreign-built U.S. flag cruise vessels in the domestic market. It effectively creates a de facto monopoly for this one foreign company."
Stephen Moore, president of Club for Growth, a nonprofit group in Washington that advocates limited government, said: "The government is losing $180 million on a cruise ship that will ultimately be built in Germany and owned by a Malaysian-based Norwegian company. This is hardly a way that American taxpayers would want their dollars to be spent."
This is not the first time the Jones Act has been sidestepped. Nabors Industries, an American oil rig operator, reincorporated in Bermuda to escape United States taxes, but claims to be an American corporation for purposes of the Jones Act to run supply ships from oil platforms in the Gulf of Mexico to the United States. 
The Norwegian Cruise arrangement made sense to both the government and the company. The company was able to buy the half-finished hull -- the ship will ultimately cost about $350 million to complete -- for pennies on the dollar. And the deal gave Congress a face-saving way to end Project America. 
"Our company is committed to establishing a U.S. flag company and hiring thousands of Americans to operate our U.S. flag ships to recoup Project America," said Susan Robison, a spokeswoman for Norwegian Cruise. "This was an attractive proposition for Congress, particularly during an economic slump and a time when many American companies are seeking to expatriate."
Norwegian Cruise also recently bought two aging American-made ships, the Independence and the United States, and plans to use them to develop a niche market of domestic cruises -- for instance, between New York and Miami or along the California coast. 
"We saw Project America as a business opportunity and a way of meeting our goal of building one ship a year and growing our fleet," Ms. Robison said. "So we approached Senator Inouye about it."
To carry the American flag, the Norwegian Cruise ships must hire American crews, pay American wages and taxes, and follow American environmental regulations. The deal also means that Norwegian Cruise's American flag ships will not have to stop at Fanning Island, in the Republic of Kiribati, about 1,000 miles south of Hawaii, as its other ships in the Hawaiian market have been required to do. This port of call was developed by Norwegian Cruise so that its Hawaiian-cruise passengers would not have to sail back to Canada or Mexico.
Norwegian Cruise's competitors are crying foul. 
"Other cruise ship companies wanted to have the same opportunity to flag a U.S. ship," said Rose Abello, a spokeswoman for Holland-American Lines. "But the measure was passed, and it was exclusively to N.C.L."
Holland-American has 15-day cruises to the Hawaiian Islands -- five days around the islands and 10 days on open seas to and from Mexico, Canada, or other foreign ports.
Hawaii's Congressional delegation could not be more delighted about the deal, mainly because of the 10,000 jobs they anticipate for Hawaiian residents on the ships and elsewhere in the tourist trade.
Moreover, in an industry where most cruise ship companies maintain foreign registry so they can hire employees from poor countries and pay them lower wages, Hawaii's Congressional delegation says Norwegian Cruise will have to play by American rules and, unlike other cruise ship companies, pay American taxes. 
Representative Abercrombie, who was re-elected on the basis of his staunch support for the Jones Act, said this exemption made sense to him, though he says he still backs the Jones Act as strongly as ever. 
"You have to start with the premise of whether we want to have an American cruise ship industry," Mr. Abercrombie said in an interview. "N.C.L. came to us. They said that if they wanted to make that jump into the Hawaiian market as a U.S. ship, they needed an exemption to finish the ships in Europe. I could see where there is money to be made in a genuine interisland cruise."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Sunday about cruise ships owned by a company based in Hong Kong that qualify for a privilege reserved for American-made vessels misstated the historical significance of one of those ships, the Pride of America, which is expected to sail next year. It will be the first new oceangoing ship in 50 years to fly the United States flag, not the first ship of any kind.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Pride of America is being built by Norwegian Cruise Line in Bremerhaven, Germany, and is expected to sail by the Fourth of July. (Photo by Norwegian Cruise Line)(pg. 50) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (92%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); APPROVALS (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); BUDGETS (69%); POLITICS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Ships and Shipping ; Pride of America (Ship); Cruises; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Ships and Shipping ; Shipbuilding, Conversion and Repair; Labor; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: GENTING BHD (69%); NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Norwegian Cruise Line; Star Cruises

TICKER: NCLH (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (56%) SIC4481 DEEP SEA PASSENGER; 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (54%) Leslie Wayne; Daniel K (Sen) Inouye; Neil (Rep) Abercrombie; John S (Sen) Mccain

GEOGRAPHIC: BREMEN, GERMANY (93%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (70%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MALAYSIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); HONG KONG (79%) Hawaii; Bremerhaven (Germany); Pascagoula (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



364 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Hoping to Surmount His Early Setbacks

BYLINE:  By LILY KOPPEL

 BODY:
When Armeen Hodge was 11, his father died of brain cancer and his mother became addicted to alcohol and drugs. "That's when everything sank," he said. "My father was the backbone of the family."
 Now Mr. Hodge, 25 and with a family of his own, is determined to create the kind of life that he lost. "Now that I'm a father," he said, "the things that I missed and lusted for as a kid I try to automatically give to my son, to show him the love that I wish I had growing up." 
 Recently he recalled the painful time when his father was sick in the hospital and his home in Harlem deteriorated. "I remember as a kid, being the only one to go and see him with my mother," he said. "My older brothers, they didn't handle it very well; they got involved in doing things like selling drugs on the street." 
After Mr. Hodge's father died, a neighbor reported Mr. Hodge's mother, who had slumped into alcoholism, to New York City's Administration for Children's Services. He and several of his nine siblings were placed in foster homes.
"I used to run away all the time," he said. "I didn't want to be nowhere but with my family."
He and one of his brothers were sent to live at the Pleasantville Cottage School, a residential treatment center in Westchester County for emotionally troubled youngsters. Pleasantville is part of the Jewish Child Care Association of New York, a beneficiary of UJA-Federation of New York, one of the seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. At the school, Mr. Hodge worked through some of the issues he had had with his splintered family.
At 16, Mr. Hodge was given the option of being discharged, but he decided it was in his best interest to stay. After graduating from high school, he moved from Pleasantville to the Youth Residence Center, a now-defunct treatment program in Manhattan run by the Jewish Child Care Association. He lived there and worked in the mailroom at Goldman Sachs.
Since turning 21, he has been supporting himself and his fiancee. The couple met at the Youth Residence Center and have a child, Armeen Malachi, 5.
"We're striving to better our lives," he said. "We both have good morals that we are trying to instill in our son because we both had such difficult lives growing up."
They live in the northwest Bronx in a small two-bedroom apartment and want to move to a safer neighborhood. Both parents attend Manhattan Community College, where Mr. Hodge is earning a degree in business administration while working full time.
But in October 2002, the family suffered a setback when Mr. Hodge was laid off from his job as a mailroom assistant at Alliance Capital. In the six months that he was unemployed, he did construction work, drove his car as a cab at night and helped his brother-in-law deliver newspapers.
Still unable to generate enough income, he began to accumulate credit card debt, about $3,000 worth, at a high interest rate. "When we needed things like food, I had to go to the card to provide for the home," he said.
In May, Mr. Hodge got a job as a data analyst in New Jersey. The position was a step up, with potential for promotion, he said.
But he worried about the effect of his debt on his plans to buy a home one day for his family. He had kept in touch with Mike Spindler, the director of Pleasantville, and after struggling to meet the debt on his own, Mr. Hodge approached him for help. The Jewish Child Care Association arranged for Mr. Hodge to receive $3,000 to pay off his debt -- $1,500 from the Neediest Cases and the other half an interest-free loan with a monthly payment plan.
Now Mr. Hodge can concentrate on his career and on his family. What drives him is the hope that he can set an example for his son, as well as for his two older brothers who are in prison on drug-related charges. "There's a lot more at stake than just me," he said. "I think for the family, you got to change something. You can't keep going in that same direction."
He recalls the encouragement that his brothers gave him years ago. "Even though they were doing wrong, they were trying to keep me away and teach me different from that," he said. "But now that I'm grown up, I'm trying to talk to them and say: 'Remember you telling me this? This is what you should be doing.' "
Now Mr. Hodge has taken on the mentoring role for his brothers. "I'm not their father; they are older than me," he said. "But I try to go out of the way, go the extra mile, to show them that there's more to life than what we experience, that you should try to make a difference for your family."
His son amazes him. "I see him being kindhearted and loving. I feel I'm that way so I see that influence rubbing off on him," he said. "He openly says I love you, Mommy or Daddy, before he goes to bed, or he gives us a hug."
Mr. Hodge sings about his triumphs. In addition to his interest in pursuing a career in music or business, he thinks he may want to become a counselor to pass on to others the benefit of his experience. He believes that anything is possible through hard work and a positive outlook.
"I just envision success," he said. "I don't envision failure."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $4,121,330.63
Recorded Thursday: $66,220.00

Total: $4,187,550.63
Last year to date: $4,456,661.28

GRAPHIC: Photo: Armeen Hodge wants to build the kind of home for his 5-year-old son that he lost when his own father died. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CHILDREN (88%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (78%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (78%); FAMILY (78%); CANCER (78%); FOSTER CARE (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (74%); BRAIN CANCER (73%); CHARITIES (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); CHILD WELFARE (66%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (64%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%); CITY GOVERNMENT (52%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund; Credit

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Jewish Child Care Assn; Uja-Federation of New York

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Lilly Koppel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



365 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Energy Policy Lives Where the Deer and the Antelope Play 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: PINEDALE, Wyo. 

 BODY:
A herd of 100 pronghorn antelopes were trotting over a ridge here, then meandered to a halt and foraged meditatively a few hundred yards from a natural gas wellhead and its squat companion tanks, filled with the petroleum byproducts of the drilling.
 The pronghorns were stragglers in the winter migration of antelopes across the Upper Green River Valley, a landscape that has been tied to this ancient pattern for millenniums and is now being remade by the nation's thirst for clean-burning, environmentally friendly natural gas. Energy companies eager to slake that thirst while prices are high are accelerating the makeover of the longest wildlife migration route in the continental United States. 
 Whether this harms the wildlife in the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem or affects the air or water in the Wind River Mountains is unclear. But it is clear that here in the Upper Green, as the area is called, the Bush administration's energy policies have come to life. The antelopes' migration route and the winter range of thousands of mule deer lie atop an estimated 7 trillion to 10 trillion cubic feet of natural gas -- more than 4 percent of the nation's reserves, according to Don J. Likwartz, Wyoming's oil and gas supervisor. 
As twilight settles in above the gas fields and darkening bands of red climb up the granite flanks of the nearby Wind River Mountains, some 20 drilling rigs light up.
In the past three years, more than 575 wells have been drilled to tap two rich deposits, and at least 1,500 more are likely to follow, said Priscilla Mecham, the senior Interior Department official in the area. Mr. Likwartz says he thinks that figure is low; he said EnCana Oil and Gas (USA), the Canadian company that is the largest leaseholder in the area, and other companies like Ultra Petroleum and Shell Exploration and Production, are seeking to allow drilling at as many as 3,100 more wells, filling in an area already laced with 747 miles of new gas-related dirt roads.
Since most of the land involved is owned by the federal government, the preliminary decisions mediating this natural gas rush fall to Ms. Mecham, who directs the local office of the Bureau of Land Management.
The push to drill started before the Bush administration came into office, but in recent months oil and gas issues have become almost the only items on her agenda, Ms. Mecham said. Some 22 months ago, the Interior Department designated the Pinedale office as one of 21 around the country whose planning work was "high priority."
And while the economic incentives in the stalled energy legislation backed by the Bush administration would have increased the profits of the companies at work here, they would have had less impact on Pinedale drilling than the decisions that emerge from the low-slung Bureau of Land Management building at the south end of town.
The Interior Department will determine how much gas can be extracted, sold and sent to homes and businesses on the West Coast, and how quickly. "It's a fantastic challenge," Ms. Mecham said. "We have world-class oil and gas resources, world-class wildlife resources and world-class scenic resources."
Such decisions preoccupy Ms. Mecham, an archaeologist who has worked for the land agency for a quarter-century. Above all, there is the new land-use plan, which she hopes to send to her supervisors in Cheyenne at the end of the month.
The plan could force staged development of the gas fields, or allow the maximum number of wells in the minimum feasible time. It is likely to indicate how many wells must be clustered on a single pad. The more wells drilled from one location, minimizing surface impact, the greater the need to drill horizontally.
Jeff Johnson, EnCana's production team leader in the area, said that this "directional drilling" technique, favored by environmentalists, added $200,000 to the average $1.8 million cost of drilling a vertical well.
While Ms. Mecham's staff has been working on that master plan, it has also been making daily decisions on drilling activity in the two gas-rich areas southwest of town. One, 46 square miles of the high desert called Jonah after a nearby gulch, has become a booming industrial-energy park.
Just to the north lies a rich but less developed area called the Pinedale Anticline, a name that refers to the geological equivalent of an underground hill, where the gas is stored. It covers nearly 310 square miles, including a long mesa that is a crucial section of the migration corridor for pronghorns and mule deer. There are more than 60 new wells on the Anticline. A tenfold increase is contemplated.
The transformation of Sublette County (a region so rural that it does not have a single stop sign) came as economics, chemistry and politics collided here. From January 2002 to July 2003, the price of natural gas doubled. What had become economical in the late 1990's became highly profitable.
For example, Ultra Petroleum reported profit margins of more than 20 percent from Pinedale-area gas in 2002, when it sold gas for an average price of $2.18. In the first nine months of this year, Ultra produced 70 percent more gas and sold it $3for.99, tripling its revenues, compared with the first nine months of 2002.
Since 1998, the number of applications for drilling permits has increased fourfold, to 300, Ms. Mecham said.
The pressure to award new mineral leases beyond the Jonah field and the Pinedale Anticline has been so intense that a tract of land in a narrow section of the wildlife migration corridor, for which the Wyoming Game and Fish Department had sought protection, was auctioned to an energy company in August 2002. Ms. Mecham and one of her superiors in Cheyenne called the offer, which was quickly rescinded, "an administrative error."
Many mineral leases in the Pinedale area come with stipulations that put seasonal bans on drilling in the deer and antelope winter ranges, or halt drilling if strutting sage grouse appear at a mating site. Industry requests for exceptions -- most lasting less than two weeks -- are almost always granted now. 
The conflicts between energy interests and those of wildlife advocates like Linda F. Baker of the Upper Green River Valley Coalition are sharp. But the two sides try to acknowledge each other's concerns.
Dru Bower, a spokeswoman for the Petroleum Association of Wyoming, said that she had persuaded her members to forgo drilling on a wide swath of Trapper's Point, one of the narrowest sections of the wildlife migration route. And Mr. Johnson said EnCana has offered $10 million to set aside unspoiled acreage.
Ms. Baker, who said she understood the need to harvest some natural gas, welcomed these proposals as "first steps" -- but said far more needed to be done to ensure that the wildlife and the air are unharmed. 
She and other wildlife advocates balk at the notion that an entire field must be drilled quickly, when staged development, tract by tract, is possible. But industry officials say that would be less efficient and less safe.
"It's so easy to put a monetary value on natural gas, because it has a price," Ms. Baker said. "It's much harder to do that with mule deer or pronghorn."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers on the platform of a natural gas drilling rig in the Jonah field, a booming industrial-energy park southwest of Pinedale.; Grazing on the Pinedale Anticline near Pinedale, Wyo. The area includes a migration corridor for pronghorn antelopes and mule deer, as well as more than 60 new natural gas wells. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) Map of Wyoming highlighting Pinedale: Gas drilling has transformed rural Sublette County in recent years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (86%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (77%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); RIVERS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (70%) Gas (Fuel); Antelope; Land Use Policies; Deer; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: ENCANA OIL & GAS (USA) INC (65%); SHELL EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION ANGOLA (53%); ULTRA PETROLEUM CORP (53%); SHELL EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION NAMIBIA BV (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (59%) Bureau of Land Management

TICKER: UPL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (65%)

PERSON: Felicity Barringer; Priscilla Mecham

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%) Wyoming; Upper Green River Basin (Wyo)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



366 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Suits Multiply, But Fewer Ever Get To Trial, Study Says 

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
On television and in the popular imagination, lawsuits and prosecutions end in trials, in open court before a jury. In reality, according to a new study, trials have become quite uncommon. 
 In 1962, the study says, 11.5 percent of all civil cases in federal court went to trial. By last year, that number had dropped to 1.8 percent. And even though there are five times as many lawsuits today, the raw number of civil trials has dropped, too. They peaked in 1985 at 12,529. Last year, 4,569 civil cases were tried in federal court. 
 "What's documented here," William G. Young, the chief judge of the Federal District Court in Boston, said in a telephone interview, "is nothing less than the passing of the common law adversarial system that is uniquely American."
The percentage of federal criminal prosecutions resolved by trials also declined, to less than 5 percent last year from 15 percent in 1962. The number of prosecutions more than doubled in the last four decades, but the number of criminal trials fell, to 3,574 last year from 5,097 in 1962.
The study, based on data compiled by the federal court system, was prepared by Marc Galanter, who teaches law at the University of Wisconsin and the London School of Economics, for the American Bar Association. 
"This is a cultural shift of enormous significance," said Arthur Miller, a law professor at Harvard.
Opinions vary on whether the shift is a positive one. Negotiated settlements may satisfy both sides in a way a win-or-lose trial cannot, and pretrial dismissals of cases by judges may avoid needless trials of frivolous claims. Both of these alternatives to trial are less cumbersome, less expensive and more efficient. 
On the other hand, some studies suggest that individuals suing companies fare considerably better before juries than they do in settlements and before judges, meaning that a decline in the number of trials may hurt plaintiffs with valid claims.
Judges, scholars and lawyers gathered over the weekend in San Francisco for a bar association symposium to discuss the study. Among the possible explanations for what the meeting's organizers call "the vanishing trial" is a growing antagonism to trials by lawyers and judges, who consider them costly and risky. They prefer negotiated settlements and pretrial determinations by judges based only on paper submissions.
"There is a striking philosophical, ideologically driven view that is hostile to trials," said Judge Patrick E. Higginbotham of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans. He attributed the view to those who prefer mediation to adjudication.
Others view the trend as progress.
"If a trial occurs," said Samuel R. Gross, a law professor at the University of Michigan, "it usually means a whole lot of efforts by a whole lot of people have failed."
Paul Butler, a law professor at George Washington University, disagreed. He said the loss of this form of dispute resolution was a devastating one. "Nobody does trials like Americans," Professor Butler said. "We made it an art form. It's almost as fundamental a part of our culture as jazz or rock 'n' roll."
Data from the state courts, which handle most lawsuits, are less complete and harder to interpret. Legal experts at the National Center for State Courts have studied the available data and say the patterns in them, particularly as they concern jury trials as opposed to those before only judges, are broadly consistent with those in the federal courts.
Judge Higginbotham recalled his life as a federal trial judge in Texas a quarter-century ago. "When I went on the bench," he said, "we tried cases. I sometimes had three juries deliberating."
In 1962, the average federal judge conducted 39 trials a year, including both civil and criminal cases. These days, that number has fallen to 13. Judges spend the rest of their time doing such things as supervising the exchange of information between parties, deciding pretrial motions and urging or approving settlements and plea bargains.
The dearth of trials has resulted in a sort of vicious circle. Many lawyers who call themselves litigators have little trial experience, which may in turn make them wary of taking cases to trial.
"We're almost moving into a barrister model," said Patricia Lee Refo, an Arizona lawyer and official of the American Bar Association, referring to the separate caste of lawyers who try cases in Britain.
On the criminal side, there is almost no dispute that the falling number of trials in the federal courts is because of the revisions in sentencing laws. Defendants who insist on a trial can face much longer sentences than those who accept a plea bargain.
The civil trend is harder to explain, and legal experts have many theories.
Some point to the rise of arbitrations and other less formal means of resolving disputes. Though the number of cases filed in court has continued to increase, it may be that some sorts of cases have gone to other forums. Injury and contract cases, which represented 74 percent of all federal civil trials in 1962, accounted for 38 percent last year, according to Professor Galanter. Those categories of cases, he said, have largely been replaced by employment discrimination and other civil rights cases, which now represent a third of all federal civil trials.
The sheer complexity and cost of litigation, others say, make settlements more attractive. The cost of a trial can exceed the cost of a settlement, giving defendants an incentive to settle. Plaintiffs and their lawyers, on the other hand, often prefer the certainty of a settlement to the possibility of recovering nothing at trial. 
"The striking problem," Professor Gross said, "is that we have generated a procedure that is way too expensive if actually employed."
But Gillian Hadfield, a law professor at the University of Southern California, said settlements might actually be in decline. 
"We need to follow up on this initial study to confirm these numbers," Professor Hadfield said, "but at this point it looks as though the percentage of cases terminated in settlement has fallen by between 10 and 15 percentage points, from approximately 50 percent in 1970 to between 35 and 40 percent during the 1980's and 1990's."
By contrast, she continued, "nontrial adjudications" -- written decisions by judges typically based only on papers submitted by the parties -- have risen to 50 percent from 32 percent since 1970.
Professor Miller said such judicial decisions can be troubling.
"We speak glowingly of letting people have their day in court," he said. "Now they have their day on papers."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Vanishing Trial"While there are five times as many civil lawsuits in the federal court system as there were 40 years ago, the percentage that ends up going to trial has dropped significantly. Federal Civil Cases Graph tracks trials as a percentage of total cases since 1962. 2002: 1.8% Federal Criminal Prosecutions Graph tracks trials as a percentage of defendants since 1962. Note: Criminal case data were not available for 1965. (Source by Marc Galanter, University of Wisconsin Law School)(pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); JUDGES (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); TRENDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%) Suits and Litigation; Crime and Criminals; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (82%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: Adam Liptak

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



367 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: FOLLOWING UP 

BYLINE:  By Joseph P. Fried

 BODY:
Getting On With Life After Nearly Losing It
She still loves New York, Nicole Barrett says, though it would be understandable if her feelings about the city were less positive.
 In November 1999, Ms. Barrett, who was then 27 and had moved to the city from Texas a year earlier, was nearly killed when a man slammed a brick into the back of her head on a sunny afternoon at a busy Manhattan intersection. 
 The act of random brutality, at 42nd Street and Madison Avenue, drew national news coverage and served as a sharp reminder that the city's falling crime rate hardly meant immunity from violence. A panhandler with a long criminal history that included drug-peddling convictions was found guilty of first-degree assault and is serving 25 years in prison.
When Ms. Barrett, who had been working temporary office jobs and thinking of a career in interior design, was released from the hospital after a month, her doctors -- who had twice operated to relieve pressure on her brain -- said she might have suffered permanent brain damage. She was still having severe headaches and problems speaking and making decisions at the time. She went to Athens, Tex., to live with her parents while continuing to recuperate and undergo therapy.
These days, Ms. Barrett says, she occasionally gets dizzy spells and contends with a partial loss of hearing in one ear. Sometimes "I can't explain things" and "tend to forget things," she said recently from Dallas, where she now lives. She is studying interior design at the Art Institute of Dallas. But the bigger impact, she said, has been on her personality.
"I think I'm a lot more subdued than I used to be," she said, adding that she also lacks her old self-confidence. 
"There are things I don't do that I think about and that I always wanted to do," she said. She "loved to fly" planes and took lessons before the assault, she said, but now hesitates to resume the lessons because of a heavy awareness that "anything can happen in a split second."
Ms. Barrett said she had tried living in New York again in 2000, months after the attack, but it "didn't work out" because it was too soon, and she returned to Texas after three months. But she has since visited the city, she said, and "it is not out of the question" that she might move back.
Ms. Barrett could not identify her attacker. The man convicted, Paris Drake, insisted that he was innocent and the victim of mistaken identification by two witnesses. His lawyer, Richard Greenberg, said he was working on an appeal.
Ms. Barrett said she had no hatred for the person who so shattered her life. "I just wonder what was going on in his mind then," she said, "and what is today."

No Toilet Surcharge On His Cellphone Bill
Extricated again.
On Oct. 29, a Bronx man, Edwin Gallart, 41, got into a most unwelcome situation while riding a Metro-North Railroad train out of Grand Central Terminal: his arm became trapped from hand to elbow in a toilet when he reached into it to retrieve his cellphone, which had fallen in.
The train was halted at the Fordham station in the Bronx while firefighters freed his arm by using power tools to tear the stainless steel bowl from the lavatory and slice it apart.
Other trains had to be rerouted, bypassing five Bronx stations and inconveniencing passengers.
Mr. Gallart's cellphone was not found, but his unhappy tale found its way into the news. Then, adding to his woes, Metro-North said it was considering whether to bill him for the nearly $3,000 cost of obtaining and installing a new bowl. 
Last week, though, a spokesman for Metro-North said it would not seek payment. "The expense of trying to recover, we believe, would be economically unfeasible," the spokesman, Dan Brucker, said.
Mr. Gallart could not be reached for comment. Whether he has a new cellphone could not be determined, but his home phone number is unlisted.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); BRAIN (72%); LAWYERS (71%); WITNESSES (70%); CRIME RATES (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); INTERIOR DECORATING (68%); DEAFNESS (65%) Assaults; Mental Health and Disorders; Bathrooms and Toilets; Railroads; Cellular Telephones; Assaults; Transit Systems 

ORGANIZATION: Metro-North Commuter Railroad

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Nicole Barrett; Paris Drake; Edwin Gallart

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



368 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Antique Sales Slow and Shops Are Closing 

BYLINE:  By JAMES LOMUSCIO

 BODY:
EDWARD CARNEY stepped into Greenwillow Antiques in Cannondale not to buy, but in the hope of selling advertising space in a TransWestern phone directory. Instead, he heard a familiar refrain from antiques dealers. Business is down and they won't be buying much advertising until things improve.
 "What I need first are a few more rings on the register. I've been hanging on like this," said Lynn Brinker, the owner of the shop, holding her arms up and digging her nails into an imaginary sill. 
 She said customers have been spending less because in uncertain times they stop buying things that are not necessities, such as antiques. She volunteered her books that showed how monthly sales have tumbled consistently to about one-fifth of what they were in 1999. Even Mr. Carney's soft sell could not cinch a deal for a display ad. 
"What I'm selling is only $41 a month for a one-and-a-half-inch column ad," he said understandingly. "But that's $41 she could put toward her rent."
Though she is struggling, Ms. Brinker can count herself better off than other antiques dealers, especially in Fairfield County where rising rents coupled with a sluggish economy and Internet competition have shuttered a number of shops. At least she is still opened and traffic has picked up a bit during the holiday season. Other dealers have gone to smaller quarters, moved out of the area or consolidated with other sellers.
Among the antiques stores that have closed this past year are Maury Rose in Branchville, the Forgotten Garden in Wilton, Hunter's Consignments in Ridgefield and Prince of Wales in Westport.
Even Wayside Antiques, a destination for more than 40 years at the intersection of Routes 33 and 7 in Wilton, and owned for the past two years by Peter Curran, the appraiser on the PBS series, "Antiques Roadshow," shut its doors this past May.
"I personally think it's pretty bleak, and I've heard horror stories from other dealers who have gone months without sales," Mr. Curran said.
He said the situation in Fairfield County has been exacerbated by rising real estate values that have caused commercial rents to soar. Mr. Curran said with declining sales he could not afford Wayside's $9,000 a month rent.
"At this point I've returned a lot of the stuff I had on consignment, and I'm basically phasing it out," said Mr. Curran, who has since moved his stock to a small garage behind a Wilton hardware store.
Mr. Curran, who said he literally grew up in his mother's antiques shop in New York, said that while the recessionary mid-1970's and late 1980's were flat periods, "this is the worst." One of the great ironies, he added, is that extremely high-end items, such as six-figure paintings and furnishings are doing well, while "the low end is taking a hit."
George Subkoff, a Westport antiques dealer, said that while business had slowed, "the really best things are selling." Mr. Subkoff, whose family has been dealing in antiques since 1908, sells mostly 18th-century furniture and furnishings with prices ranging from $800 to $200,000. Despite knowing that the nearby Jordan-Delhaise Antiques is vacating in the fall to move to Woodbury, Mr. Subkoff remained optimistic.
"It's cyclical," he said. "And there's so much money around here, and people are putting it into their homes, and eventually they'll want to furnish it with the appropriate trappings."
What about the gloomy forecast from other struggling antiques dealers?
"Like everything else, when everybody cries the most, that's when things start to turn around," Mr. Subkoff said.
Noel Edwards, who owns Consignart in Bethel, said he would like to believe that's the case. But all he has to do is look at the number of businesses for sale in an antiques newspaper to convince him that the industry is hurting. That and the fact "98 percent of the people who come in don't buy, and attendance of those is down, too."
"If you have to pay the rent and depend upon this business to survive, you're not going to make it," he said. "A lot of the people who are surviving are doing so because they have some money behind them. Someone is holding them up somehow."
The antiques business, like many others, began to sour after the Sept. 11 attacks and worsened with the war in Iraq, dealers said. 
"It's affected the psychology of people when it comes to buying, and the first things they stop buying are the things they don't really need, which are antiques," Mr. Edwards said. "And if you want my real feelings, I personally think things are going to get a lot worse in this business because of people's fear."
Other dealers, while admitting times are tough, were less grim and saw the downturn as an opportunity to rework their business strategies. Richard Miles, who had owned Cromlix Antiques and Consignments on Main Street in Ridgefield for 10 years, had considered going out of business due to rising rents and falling sales until Carla Devens, who owns C. Devens Consignments a few doors down, offered him an alternative. 
"I said you can come and work out of my store because I have a large back room," Ms. Devens recalled. "And it worked out well for me, too, because it gives me freedom. He helps me move furniture, I'm not alone, and now I can take two days off a week."
Cynthia Reiss, who owns Cynthia's Attic Treasures in the Branchville section of Ridgefield, said that about a year ago she began selling items on eBay.
"I had been fighting it, because I didn't want to spend my time in front of a computer," Ms. Reiss said. "But to survive in this industry in this environment you have to have a lot of different outlets."
She also said dealers have to offer items across a wide price spectrum.
"You'll have people come in, and they'll be looking at a $10 cup and saucer, and they might wind up buying a $100 painting," she said. "But they won't just stop in on their way somewhere and buy a $2,000 piece of furniture."
Across Route 7 at King and I Antiques, Shirley Stendahl-McLeod, said she has had to diversify by running estate sales, auctioning some of her more expensive pieces and doing appraisals. Ms. Stendahl-McLeod also relinquished half of her retail space, to cut her $60,000 a year rent in half. 
"Now we have about $1,500 square feet, and we consolidated it all, it fits and it looks great," she said.
In September, Jordan-Delhaise Antiques on Post Road East in Westport left after Michel Delhaise and George Jordan, the owners, were unable to negotiate a new lease. They moved their business, which specializes in American and European fine art and furniture, to a cooperative with three other dealers at the Main Street Antiques Center in Woodbury. 
"It's easier for us as far as time management is concerned because we're only working two days a week instead of six, and we're saving money," Mr. Delhaise said. "The rents are much more reasonable here for independent businesses. I'm very optimistic."
The Main Street Antiques Center is owned by Peggy Heminway, president of the Woodbury Antiques Dealers Association, which has 45 members. This fall one of their strategies to shake the industry's doldrums was an advertising campaign touting Woodbury as an autumn destination. She said this past year had been unpredictable.
"You could have a great month, but then it might be dead for the next month and a half," she said.
But since the fall, she said business has gotten better.
"The holiday season has picked up and either the economy as a whole is boosting us or the ad campaign has had a positive impact," she said. "We're looking forward to the New Year." 
"This past year, things were unpredictable," Ms. Heminway said. "You could have a great month, but then it might be dead for the next month and a half. But in the past three months we've seen a more consistent flow." 
Edie Van Breems, co-owner of Eleish-Van Breems in Woodbury, viewed the association's efforts optimistically, especially with the decorator business picking up.
"We sell 18th-and 19th-century Swedish antiques, and being highly specialized can be either a good thing or a bad thing, because your average buyer wasn't coming in and doing impulse buying," she said.
"It made us really look at the bottom line," Ms. Van Breems added, "We began to sell down our inventory and to take less buying trips, even to look at the prices of hotels we'd stay at when buying. These were all things we wouldn't have though of doing when times were good, things like our magazine subscriptions, phone service, even our oil company." 
In Ridgefield, Ms. Devens said the antiques business will survive because there are always people who love antiques.
"It's the workmanship, the beauty of something handmade, something made with love by one person," she said. "Things made by machine do not have the same vibrations."
And about claims that antiques are not necessary items, Mr. Subkoff in Westport countered, "They feed the soul."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Amelia Oliveira, left, and Marcia Garrison looking at porcelains at C. Devens Consignments. The shop's owner shares space with another dealer. (Photo by C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Peter Curran, appraiser on the TV series "Antiques Roadshow," closed his shop and now works from where he stores the antiques. (Photo by C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUE COLLECTING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (90%); RETAILERS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RETAIL SALES (74%); HARDWARE STORES (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (62%); INTERNET & WWW (51%) Antiques; Retail Stores and Trade; Shutdowns (Institutional)

PERSON: James Lomuscio

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) Connecticut ; Fairfield County (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



369 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Rowland's Neighborhood: Quiet and Not Too Flashy 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
IT was shortly before noon on a recent December day at the Morris Deli and the line was already snaking past the candy jars and down the cereal aisle. A man wearing insulated coveralls was eating shepherd's pie off a paper plate. Others were ordering overstuffed sandwiches to eat in their pick-up trucks. Homemade cookies sat under a glass dome. 
 This is the shop, in a dirt parking lot behind Popeye's Ice Cream and across from Morris Town Hall, where Gov. John G. Rowland buys worms. 
 "Yep," said the owner of the deli, Lisa Dreher, clearly proud, "this is where he buys his bait."
It's a 10-minute drive from here to 37 Van Winkle Road, where the governor has a summer cottage in Litchfield on Bantam Lake. A federal investigation into the awarding of state contracts has put the cottage in the news and three people who worked on the house have been subpoenaed to testify about how they may have been promised state work in exchange for low-priced renovations. But for many who live or summer here, Mr. Rowland is, above all, a neighbor. The fact that he appears to cherish his privacy seems to strike a chord with many people.
"You see him out fishing a lot and smoking a cigar, mostly because his wife doesn't let him smoke at home or he's out on his boat with the kids," said George Sigiel, a real estate agent.
Although Bantam Lake has families who have summered here for a century --the Bayleys are the first name that comes to the mind of Morris Town Clerk Ann E. Carr -- it isn't the kind of place where new people are shut out. Witness the Rowlands, who bought their 1,200 square foot cabin in the north bay of the lake in 1997 and have been folded into the community. The governor is spotted in his motor boat, "sort of small," walking his dog, poking around the hardware store or buying groceries in the Stop and Shop in Litchfield.
"You do get some gawkers, but most people just let them be," said Thomas Weik, a member of the Morris Board of Selectman and Bantam Lake Authority.
The State Department of Environmental Protection monitors the lake's water quality and patrols the lake. At the moment, reducing invasive weeds is a top concern. The lake is a bit more than two miles long. Two-thirds of it is in Morris and the rest in Litchfield. Bantam is a borough of Litchfield, in the town's western portion; some lake addresses are in the Bantam borough.
Morris is by far the more rural of the two towns, with a four corners town center that has an elementary school, a library and town hall that share a building, a church, a seasonal ice cream shop, the deli, and a post office. Bantam is a section of Litchfield with its own zip code.
Litchfield's center is bigger and certainly better known for its country chic. True, the butchers at the Litchfield Locker Company pile cow hides out in front of the shop like Turkish rugs and customers can get tuna salad on white bread in the small luncheonette, but the center also houses fancy restaurants and markets, a book store, coffee shop, and several boutiques, including a Talbot's. And the streets surrounding the center feature carefully restored historic homes with manicured lawns. Women carrying Kate Spade bags and wearing Lilly Pulitzer shifts are a summer staple in Litchfield.
But what about Bantam Lake? The people who live here said the lake is less a see-and-be-seen vacation place than a respite from the social pressure cooker. For one thing, Bantam Lake tends toward the rustic. Many of the houses do not and cannot have a septic system, which means summer people contend with a privy or chemical toilet. And although in the past few years there have been several sales of houses for more than $1 million, even those properties are far from flashy. Frosted with snow, the bungalows and cottages look sturdy and practical, with nary a ginger-bread trim nor clipped boxwood hedge in sight. There's nothing showy about the social scene, either.
"It's mostly a place for families, sometimes friends, " said a woman who works in town hall, but who asked not to be identified. "It's dead during the week and usually quiet on the weekends."
But it will it remain so?
"The face of people on the lake is becoming more elite," said Ms. Clark, who was born and raised here. "There's been a huge influx of people coming in with a lot of money and buying up houses."
Indeed, the most significant change to come to Bantam Lake is its escalating real estate prices since 1997, the year the Rowlands bought their cottage and added cachet to a lake that had been largely the province of the working class. The house Mr. Rowland and his wife, Patricia, bought is a boxy, dark brown, wooden cottage. Yet Van Winkle Road is a desirable part of the lake because the homes are father apart. Mr. Rowland's is the last on the street and has a neighbor on one side only. Mr. Sigiel said it wasn't just coincidence that prices rose after the governor bought. 
"Also, the price of waterfront everywhere just went up stratospherically, " said Barbara Bigos, who is assessor for the towns of Morris and Salisbury. "At least this lake was somewhat affordable."
The same cottage the Rowlands bought for $110,000 in 1997 on leased land from White Memorial Foundation would sell for upward of $240,000 today, said Mr. Sigiel and Ms. Bigos. The trend for new buyers at Bantam Lake is to tear down the modest cottages and build a bigger house. It is a trend that alarms Mr. Sigiel.
"I don't want people who come here from different economies and pay top dollar for something to constantly raise the prices and drive out the working class," he said.
"New Yorkers and Jersey people, that's always been the case, " Mr. Weik said. "But most of the people are from Connecticut." And most of them are from Fairfield County, Ms. Bigos said.
But as prices rise, so have assessments and property taxes. Scott Petersen, who installs lightening rods and owns a family summer house on Marsh Point on the lake, said when his family bought the house in 1960 for $7,000, taxes were $600.
Today, they are $5,400.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 28, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 14 about the area in which Gov. John G. Rowland's cottage underwent renovations that are the subject of a federal investigation misspelled the name of the restaurant opposite Morris Town Hall. It is Popey's, not Popeye's.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The road that leads to the cottage of Gov. John G. Rowland at Bantam Lake. At left, the tax collector of Morris, Launa Goslee, who said the area around the lake has become more upscale.; The Morris Deli near Town Hall, where residents can get sandwiches and the governor buys his bait. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (89%); LAKES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DOGS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); WITNESSES (73%); SUBPOENAS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); HARDWARE STORES (71%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); TESTIMONY (67%); SMOKING (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) Politics and Government; Ethics

PERSON: John G (Gov) Rowland; Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Connecticut; Bantam Lake (Conn); Litchfield (Conn); Morris (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



370 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: New London Neighbors Find It Best to Keep a Little Distance 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE WOODSIDE

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT COLLEGE'S effort to take over the management of the Lyman Allyn Art Museum, its neighbor here in New London, has ended where it began -- in court.
 The college and the museum have agreed to end an arrangement made five years ago under which the college, trying to expand its arts program, became the museum's trustee, or financial and administrative caretaker. The arrangement was made in New London Probate Court because the museum is governed by two trusts. 
 In October, the college returned to court, seeking to be removed as trustee and to be repaid $1.3 million of the $3.2 million it had spent on the museum. Under a new agreement, signed last Tuesday, control of the museum will be returned to an independent board, and the museum will pay the college $270,290. 
In addition, the agreement permits the college to redirect to itself $230,000 of donations made to the museum, and to keep an $87,851 bequest made to the museum. In total, the college will be paid $588,141.
The museum has also promised that for 30 years it will offer membership privileges to college students and faculty, and will provide space for functions and resources for college courses.
The agreement takes effect on June 30.
Officials from the college and the museum said they were satisfied with the new agreement.
Fleur Lawrence, president of the board at the museum, which will take over its administration, called the college's period as trustee "an experiment that was right for the 90's, in a different economic climate, and is notright for this time." 
She added that the museum had already raised $205,000 toward what it must pay the college.
Helen Regan, an education professor at the college who has been overseeing its effort to separate from the museum, said the college's original goal was "to help the museum rise up to a higher level of quality," but that "the financial agreement was not able to be sustained."
The museum, founded in 1926, was established by a trust under Harriet Allyn's will, and honors her father, Lyman, a merchant who was prominent in New London's whaling industry. Ms. Allyn's will, along with a trust set up in 1934 under the will of Virginia Palmer, a New London philanthropist, is the source of an endowment that has financed the museum. But in recent years, the income from the trusts has not come close to covering expenses.
Since its founding, the institution has amassed an eclectic collection of over 15,000 objects, ranging from African tribal art to antique dolls and dollhouses. It is perhaps most well known for its substantial holdings in American 19th-and 20th-century painting and decorative arts. 
For more than three decades, the museum's director was Edgar Mayhew, an art history professor at Connecticut College. After Mr. Mayhew retired, in the late 1980's, the museum went through two directors in quick succession. 
In the mid-1990's, the museum's accreditation from the American Association of Museums lapsed, potentially compromising its ability to get grants and donations. Failure to be accredited may also jeopardize efforts to borrow art work and obtain insurance for exhibitions.
By the late 1990's, the museum was in serious financial trouble, its buildings and grounds in noticeable decline. At that time, Claire Gaudiani was president of the college, whose campus is next door to the museum. Interested in improving the college's arts programs, she had the idea that the college should get more involved in the museum, she said in a telephone interview from New York City. She now holds a research position at Yale Law School.
"The strength of Connecticut College and the arts had been nationally recognized for many decades, and I believed it was in the best interest to build upon that alumni strength and stature and the work of the faculty," she said. 
In 1996, the college got the authority to manage the museum administratively, although not financially. That year, Charles Shepard, an art historian, became museum director. There was then only one other fulltime employee, Mr. Shepard said, adding that the other staff was paid hourly rates, with no benefits, and so morale was low.
Meanwhile, he said, the gift shop had closed; three galleries lacked proper lighting; there were few exhibitions; and limestone columns in the basement of the property's Deshon-Allyn house, where Harriet Allyn grew up, and which had been an exhibition site, were crumbling. To add to the overall decay, Oriental bittersweet had begun to choke most of the grounds, and much of the grass went uncut.
"It was a waist-deep jungle out there," said Mr. Shepard, who became director of the Fort Wayne Art Museum in Indiana in 2002. 
Ms. Regan explained the problems simply. "Its revenues were not sufficient to maintain it," she said.
A state bond had covered some improvements to the building, including a system for climate at the main museum, but the institution lacked the money even to run that system, Mr. Shepard said. 
Meanwhile, there were issues about the direction of the museum. Mr. Shepard said that Mr. Mayhew's philosophy was to have an eclectic collection, to be "a local mini-Met," referring to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. He said that he did not share that approach, and that he worked to mount shows that emphasized quality over eclecticism. "The whole mission was to bring quality to bear," he said.
He took down a longstanding exhibition of African art because the pieces were not of high quality, he said.
In 1998, the college sought to expand its arrangement with the museum and was appointed trustee. Since then, it has paid for more staff and increases in salaries; for the landscaping of the grounds; for renovations of the neo-classical building designed by Charles A. Platt that houses the museum, and of the Deshon-Allyn house, which now holds the doll and dollhouse collections; for new gallery lighting; for a new alarm system; and for a failed effort to open an exhibition space in downtown New London.
But as early as 1999, the overall financial commitment became too much for the college, Ms. Regan said. The museum's budget is currently more than $700,000; the annual interest income from the trusts is $200,000. Donations must make up the difference.
Although these contributions did not drop over the last five years, she said, the fear was that prospective donors would assume that the college was supporting the museum, and so would not give as much. If donations dried up, she said, the museum could become a drain on the college.
Ms. Regan added that the arrangement was problematic from the start because under the two trusts, the museum's mandate was to serve the general public of New London, and the college would not be free to control the programming as it wished. 
Christopher Steiner, an art historian whom the college hired to direct a museum studies certificate program, replaced Mr. Shepard, and will be the interim director until next July. He has increased public lectures and publicity, and planned new exhibitions, including one based on the former Nut Museum in Old Lyme that is scheduled to open in February.
As for the future of the museum, Mr. Steiner said, "Depending on who the next director is, as long as it remains a strong, vibrant museum, I see that as a positive." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: For a time, New London's Connecticut College was trustee of its neighbor, the Lyman Allyn Art Museum, left and right. But that arrangement has ended. The museum, founded in 1926 in honor of Lyman Allyn, a New London merchant shown above in a 19th-century oil by Nahum Ball Onthank, will now be governed by an independent museum board. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times; portrait of Lyman Allyn is from the Lyman Allyn Art Museum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HISTORY (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); PAINTING (78%); PROBATE (77%); WILLS (76%); CHARITIES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); WHALING (50%) Art

ORGANIZATION: Connecticut College; Lyman Allyn Art Museum (New London, Conn)

PERSON: Christine Woodside

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



371 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: A Land Trust, Wealthy Donors, A Family Farm And a Big Problem 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH MAKER

 BODY:
THERE'S a country lane between two towns in northwest Connecticut that is postcard-perfect in its bucolic beauty. But lately, it has been the backdrop for a dispute that some see as between wealthy weekenders versus long-time local farming families.
 The two sides disagree abouthow a beef cattle farm on Town Line Road in Bridgewater, owned by the Bridgewater Land Trust, should be run and they disagree about the appearance of that farm. 
 Some donors to the land trust, who have given more than a $1 million each, argue that the trust isn't honoring their vision of how the property should be preserved, thereby risking future donations to the trust.
"We are treading a very tight rope here," said Kevin Alldred, president of the Bridgewater Land Trust, a nonprofit open space preservation group that's caught in the middle of the disagreement. "Anything we say or do is likely to seriously upset one half of the town or the other." 
It all centers on a 96-acre farm preserve on the road that divides Roxbury to the east and Bridgewater to the west. When word got out around four years ago about a possible plan to subdivide and develop the farm, a few Bridgewater weekenders decided to save the open space and donate a little over a million dollars each to the trust, which purchased the farm for $2.2 million in 2000.
The donors were Terry Fitzgerald, a Wall Street investor with Longbow Capital and his wife, Libby, who gave $1.125 million; William Rondina, owner of the Carlisle Collection, a women's clothing line, who gave $1.125 million, and Peter May, president and co-owner of Triarc Companies, a conglomerate of restaurant franchises, in Manhattan and his wife, Leni, who owned the Town Line Farm property at the time. They in effect donated about $1 million to the trust by offering to sell the farm for less than its $3.5 million market value.
"We were overjoyed," Mr. Alldred recalled. "It was the largest donation the land trust had ever received, and we were quite taken by the generosity of the donors." The donations enabled the land trust not only to purchase the property, but to beautifully restore the barn and farmhouse, he said.
But, the donation came with some strings attached for whomever farmed the land and lived in the house. The donors feel they have every right to tighten those strings now, three years later, by imposing new regulations that they said clarify their original intentions about the property and tenants. 
For the Fitzgeralds, who spend weekends at Grey Ledge, their Bridgewater estate just down the hill and across the street from the farm, the donation came with no hesitation. The couple had already acquired about 150 acres since they came to town 10 years ago, and preserving the farm would further protect their scenic vistas as well as expand the available territory for riding their horses, they said. 
"We thought we were doing something really nice for everyone in the area," said Ms. Fitzgerald after a recent Bridgewater Land Trust meeting, a tense gathering of board members and about 75 citizens at the local library. "I just can't believe things have gotten so contentious. It really hurts."
Soon after the land trust took ownership of the Town Line Farm Preserve, they formed a subcommittee to interview prospective farmers to lease the property. The subcommittee, comprising the Fitzgeralds, Bridgewater First Selectman Bill Stuart Sr., and Cheryl Johnson, a lawyer who was then president of the land trust, rejected several farmers before deciding on a couple from Massachusetts who also happened to be Mr. Stuart's son, Bill Stuart Jr., and his wife, Deb. Bill Stuart Jr. grew up in Bridgewater and spent most of his life farming cattle with his father. The couple and their two sons moved into the farm preserve during the summer of 2002. The farm is their only means of income.
All was fine the first year: Paying the land trust a monthly rent of $1,250, as the lease stipulated, the Stuarts went about their business of raising 120 head of beef cattle, maintaining the grounds, the 300-foot-long red barn, and the white 1842 farmhouse.
"I would wake up every morning and look out and say 'Thank you God, we are so blessed,"' Ms. Stuart said, choking back tears. "And now, it's like this cold, black cloud hanging over us. It's like having your dream-come-true evolve into a living nightmare."
The problems surfaced in the summer when Mr. Fitzgerald learned that the Stuarts had applied with the Roxbury Zoning Commission to operate a farm stand on the property. It would have been a 15-foot-by-20-foot area in an existing garage, where the couple planned to sell vegetables from their garden and beef.
Mr. Fitzgerald said he was angry that the couple didn't ask him or the other donors how they felt about having a farm stand there. A farm stand was never part of the original agreement, Mr. Fitzgerald said.
"This whole term 'farm stand' is a canard," Mr. Fitzgerald said. "What they propose is actually a highly specialized commercial retail venue," that, he added, would draw unwanted traffic to the area.
The Stuarts found another location for the farm stand across town. But, the donors were still concerned. 
"It's outlandish," Bill Stuart Jr. said at the land trust meeting in November. "We've found another location for the farm stand, end of story. So why are we even here?"
The Fitzgeralds said they worry that the farm stand issue may arise again, and they have other concerns about the appearances of the property. For instance, among developments they didn't like were the "Stuart Family Farm" sign that was placed on the property; the golf cart that the Stuarts' two sons, Will, 9, and Christian, 8, use to ride around the property; the all terrain vehicle that Bill Stuart Jr. sometimes rides to check fences and livestock on the huge property; and, the 120 head of cattle that seems excessive to the Fitzgeralds.
At the time of the gift, the donors' original written intentions stated that "the land be used for agricultural purposes in perpetuity," specifying that the crops be restricted to hay and livestock be restricted to beef cattle or sheep. But the donors said it is what they didn't stipulate specifically that is just as important. 
"I would submit that this case will set a precedent," said Mr. Fitzgerald, who serves on the Roxbury Land Trust and is co-chairman of a program called Save Our Farms that has raised nearly $7 million over the past two years to preserve about 800 acres of farmland in the area. "You have got to respect and uphold the intentions of the individual donors, or donations will be unlikely in the future." Among other things, the Fitzgeralds' and the other donors' clarifications of their original intentions define what they call a "passive agricultural operation" on the property. They want to prohibit farm stands or any kind of development; limit the number of cattle to 35; limit the farm equipment used; prohibit all-terrain vehicles, golf carts or other motorized recreational vehicles on the property; allow only hay to be grown on and sold from the property; allow only one annual auction of cattle or sheep; prohibit advertising in any form, including signs on the property or ads in newspapers or radio.
Another specific stipulation in the donors' clarifications stated, "As it is impossible to envision future requests or unforeseen circumstances, all activities not explicitly identified in this document are inconsistent with donor intent and should not be undertaken or allowed."
Deb Stuart said that she and her family are "apparently not classy enough for the Fitzgeralds.
"They think the next thing we'll do is put a clothesline up, and an old mattress with springs popping out of it on the porch," she added.
Mr. Rondina declined to comment, and the Mays were traveling and could not be reached. But Mr. Fitzgerald explained, "We believe that the land trust accepted our donation with explicit and implicit commitments that the property be preserved as it was at the time, and that the nature of the agricultural activity not be expanded or altered.
"This is not a matter of personality, it's a matter of principal," Mr. Fitzgerald added. "We have a situation where the Stuarts have changed the rules so they can capitalize on the full economic potential of the farm" by proposing to run a farm stand. "It is not the responsibility of the land trust to ensure the economic viability of the farm. This is about farmland preservation, not farming preservation."
The Stuarts, however, argued that they haven't changed any rules; that farm stands are a permitted agricultural use under Connecticut statutes and under local zoning laws. 
Some residents saw the newly written intentions as hypocritical since the Fitzgeralds themselves have 35 head of cattle, operate a farm stand in the summer, have several signs on their property, and drive an all terrain vehicle on their land.
Mr. Fitzgerald said their situation is different because theirs is private property, not owned by a land trust. And their farm stand is a charitable operation open only in August, run by the Fitzgerald's two sons, William, 10, and Robert, 8, and 20 percent of the proceeds got to the Bridgewater and Roxbury Land Trusts.
At the meeting, a petition signed by 220 area residents supporting the tenant farmers was submitted, stating that the proposed restrictions would force them to leave the farm. 
But Jean Bandler, a resident of Bridgewater, urged the land trust board to "stand by the donors and honor their intentions. Failure to do this will lead down a very slippery and dangerous slope."
In other words: do what the donors ask, or lose future donations.
"We've got not only the future of this farm at stake," said Mr. Alldred, the land trust president, "but the future of our ability to preserve the rural character of this town. It's a highly volatile issue."
According to State Representative Clark Chapin, who was recently named Legislator of the Year by the Connecticut Farm Bureau Association, this kind of fracas is becoming increasingly common and is partly to blame for the fact that Connecticut farmland is disappearing at the rate of 9,000 acres a year.
"This is a classic case of competing forces when it comes to agriculture in the state of Connecticut," Mr. Chapin said. "People do want to preserve land and scenic vistas, but they don't want to offer any concessions to farmers. If people want to make a genuine effort to preserve farmland, they've got to make the same effort to preserve farming. You have to make allowances for certain activities that are key to the industry, otherwise the farmer has no chance. You can't just freeze the picture of the farm in time and expect it to stay looking like a farm with nobody farming it."
The land trust has formed a subcommittee to decide how to handle the matter and expects to issue a decision by Christmas.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday about a farmstead owned by the Bridgewater Land Trust referred incorrectly to a comment by Jean Bandler, a resident of Bridgewater. Ms. Bandler, who spoke at a land trust board meeting, urged the trust to honor the intentions of donors. She did not speak in favor of the family leasing and running the farm.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Terry Fitzgerald, above left at lectern, donated more than $1 million to the Bridgewater Land Trust. He and other donors say the land trust should honor their intentions for the property, top, that they helped the land trust purchase. Deb and Bill Stuart Jr., below, lease the property, but they are facing more restrictions on how to run their farm. (Photographs by Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Jean Bandler speaking in favor of the Stuarts at a Bridgewater Land Trust Meeting as Terry Fitzgerald listened.; A sign the Stuarts put on the property, just off Town Line Road. (Photographs by Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); FAMILY (77%); MAJOR GIFTS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); CLOTHING LABELS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FRANCHISING (65%); RESTAURANTS (63%) Agriculture; Farm Stands; Renting and Leasing; Agriculture

COMPANY: WENDY'S CO (65%)

ORGANIZATION: Bridgewater Land Trust

TICKER: WEN (NASDAQ) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (65%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (65%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Maker; Deb Stuart; Bill Jr Stuart

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (91%) Bridgewater (Conn); Roxbury (Conn); Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



372 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: A Ban, Sort Of 

BYLINE:  By GEORGINA GUSTIN

 BODY:
IN one Connecticut bar recently, a bartender served drinks to a row of customers as they tipped their cigarettes into plastic ashtrays, filling the air with smoke.
 In another bar, another bartender also served customers, but the bar stood empty of ashtrays and the air was smoke-free. 
 Both places had all the makings of the classic watering hole - the bottles of liquor, the beer taps, the regulars perching on stools. But, at least for now, that other atmospheric bar ingredient, smoke, is legal in one place and not the other.
Following the lead of other states, including New York, Connecticut lawmakers overwhelmingly approved a law earlier this year banning smoking in all restaurants and bars throughout the state. But there's a difference in Connecticut, one that has customers and restaurateurs perplexed and a little angry, and some legislators pushing to tweak the new rules. 
The law is taking effect in two parts. As of Oct. 1, smoking was banned in restaurants, including those with separate bar areas, and owners were required to put up "no smoking" signs. Then, on April 1, 2004, bars have to follow suit.
The lag time between the restaurant smoke ban and the bar ban has Connecticut restaurateurs, many of whom depend on their bar business more than their dining patrons, angry as they watch their regulars file out the door to places where they can still light up. And while the ban is a victory for public health that has delighted nonsmokers and even improved dining business at some restaurants, many in the state's service industry see it as flawed, inconsistent and unfair.
"I used to close down at 1 a.m.," said Nick Jhilal, manager of the Bear and Grill in Fairfield, who estimated that he had lost 30 to 40 percent of his bar patrons to bars where they can still smoke. "Now I close down at 9:30. The next three hours are dead."
In Connecticut there is a range of permits that allow places to serve alcohol. The bulk of permits are issued to restaurants, which serve food as well as liquor, and to bars, which get what is called a "cafe" license and are allowed to serve liquor with food on the side, if they choose.
Restaurants throughout the state, especially those with closed-off bar areas, are being hard-hit by the ban, and the economic effects have some lawmakers wondering about the wisdom of the new rules. 
"This legislation damaged the marketplace," said Simon A. Flynn, president of the Connecticut Restaurant Association, who said he had heard from dozens of restaurant owners, one of whom said he lost $10,000 in the first month of the ban. "It doesn't make sense. The bars are luxuriating in this inequity."
In the meantime, many restaurateurs are simply looking the other way as smokers light up because they can't afford to lose their business.
"People leave, people just walk out," said Tina McManus, a bartender and waitress at Black Rock Castle in Bridgeport, which is in a strip of bars and restaurants lining Fairfield Avenue through Fairfield and into Westport. "The whole law is ridiculous."
Ms. McManus, a smoker herself, estimated that 90 percent of the restaurant's customers are smokers and many are going to more smoke-friendly places. That's a financial hit many restaurants apparently aren't willing to take. "They're cheating," Ms. McManus said of other restaurants in the area. "They have to.
"I don't like smelling smoke. I don't like it on my clothes. But I like walking home with a bundle of cash," Ms. McManus added, noting that smokers who are allowed to smoke tend to linger longer and buy more drinks. "If you did a survey of employees, no one would agree with the ban. You're taking money out of our pockets."
Under the new law, people can be fined $99 if they are caught smoking in a no-smoking establishment. The business itself is only required to post "no smoking" signs and can be fined $99 if it does not, but it is not fined if customers are actually smoking. The only people who can issue the $99 tickets are the police, and police departments around the state said they have more pressing issues than tracking errant smokers.
"I wish I had the time to proactively check restaurants," said Louis DeCarlo, chief of the Stamford Police Department. "We're taking the tack that most police departments are. We're only responding to complaints."
According to the State's Liquor Control Division, which issues liquor permits, the license of a restaurant or bar can be revoked by the state for violating the ban. But that would likely happen only if the police or a customer complained to the state, prompting the liquor commission to investigate. And even then it is not clear what would set off the commission's inquiry -- an establishment's failure to post signs, as the new law requires, or its failure to actually pluck cigarettes from smokers' mouths.
"We would expect a licensed permit holder to comply with the state law, and if it was found not to be, we would investigate," said John Suchy, director of the division. Then, "Based on our determination we could take regulatory action."
When asked how many times an establishment would have to violate the law, or in what way, before the commission took action, Mr. Suchy said: "It's going to be on a case-by-case basis. I'm not going to say what the commission might do." 
Local departments of public health, which issue food permits to restaurants, also do not have a direct enforcement role, although they can revoke a food license for repeated violations of the ban and can subtract points from annual inspections. Under the new law, though, it's not clear how many violations it would take for a health department to rescind a license. 
"It says violations, plural," said Michael Lauzier of the American Lung Association of Connecticut.
Some places are willing to take the risk.
"What are they going to do, have a smoking force, like the Gestapo?" said Richard Ball, owner of Jeremiah Donovan's on Washington Street in South Norwalk. "Enforcing the thing's a joke. That's a full-time job."
Mr. Ball said the ban had been a mixed blessing for his business.
"I know there are people who used to come in every night that are going someplace else for now," he said. "But my lunch business is up 25 percent. I think it's very positive. It's a nasty habit and this is what the state is trying to tell you."
Nonetheless, Mr. Ball said, late at night, after the dining rush is over, "People can light up and I probably wouldn't say anything."
Jeremiah Donovan's is among many of the state's restaurants who said business has improved since Oct. 1.
"Actually, it's kind of interesting," said John Black, a bartender at Dunville's Westport. "Our dinner sales have gone up. People are starting to look at us as more of a restaurant than a bar now."
Still, the change hasn't pleased everyone and some lawmakers are responding.
Under the original version of the bill introduced earlier this year, the General Assembly's Public Health Committee adopted a provision that would allow separate smoking rooms in bars, but the idea was dropped. Now, Representative Art Feltman, Democrat of Hartford and House chairman of the committee, said he would support changing the law to include that provision again.
"If there is a huge drop in revenues at bars," Mr. Feltman said, "I'd be open to that proposal."
In early November, Gov. John G. Rowland told a reporter that he believed restaurants and bars should be allowed to establish separate smoking rooms, but Mr. Feltman said he didn't feel a change should go that far. "It should never extend to restaurants," he said.
Dean Pagani, a spokesman for the governor, said Mr. Rowland's remarks were made in an off-hand way. "It got really overblown. He was really just expressing his opinion," Mr. Pagani said. "He's really leaving it up to the Legislature He has no intention of proposing that."
So, for the time being, restaurants are adjusting to the ban and bars are gearing up for what could be a big financial blow. The only establishments that will clearly see a rise in smokers' business are private clubs, like boat clubs or some social clubs, which have different liquor licenses that will allow smoking even after the ban.
"Our sense, from a number of different restaurateurs is that part of the competition they face now is from private clubs," said Mr. Flynn of the restaurant association. "What we're hearing is that clubs are developing different categories of memberships, like associate memberships, to allow more members. Individuals that might not qualify under the rules of membership are now eligible."
At some private clubs, employees rejected the idea of a smoking ban.
"This is not Cuba," said David Duncan, a bartender at a Veterans of Foreign Wars post in Norwalk. "Next thing you know people are going to be telling you to be home at 11 o'clock at night."
But this raises another issue, restaurant owners said. If the bill was intended to protect the health of employees in bars and restaurants, don't employees in clubs deserve the same protection? 
"Are they protected under the law or not?" asked Mr. Jhilal of the Bear and Grill, who said he has hired lawyers to look into whether the law violates the 14th amendment of the Constitution, which guarantees equal protection.
"If it is a public health issue, then it should be a statewide ban," Mr. Flynn said. "If they can't do that, they should retreat to a position whereby the only ban on smoking in the state is in dining rooms."
Or smokers can find refuge in Rhode Island, where smoking is still allowed in restaurants and bars, or perhaps New York, where some lawmakers are attempting to roll back a ban that went into effect in July.
The bill, co-sponsored by Republican Assemblymen Howard Mills and Matthew Mirones would allow bars to buy "smoking licenses" for $100 a year.
"I think people should make their own choices, and I was very concerned about the bars in my district that are going out of business," Mr. Mills said, noting that his district abuts New Jersey, where smokers are spilling over the state border to bars that still permit smoking. 
"This is based on personal liberty and freedom of choice issues," Mr. Mills added. "I'm not even a smoker myself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A new law has banned smoking in restaurants, forcing smokers to head outside. Above, customers find a spot to smoke at Dunville's Westport, and below, outside Jeremiah Donovan's in Norwalk. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Restaurant owners are complaining that they are losing business to bars, where customers can still smoke.; A notice in the Bear and Grill urges people to fight the ban. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (92%); DRINKING PLACES (92%); SMOKING BANS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEER & ALE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); APPROVALS (55%) Smoking and Tobacco; Restaurants ; Bars

PERSON: Georgina Gustin

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



373 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS; 
It's Not a Labor of Love, but They Love It Anyway

BYLINE:  By PETER BOODY

DATELINE: Bridgehampton 

 BODY:
FOR some, retirement may be about golf, gardening, grandchildren and a smug satisfaction about a life well lived. But that was not on the agenda for Barbara and Warren H. Phillips of Bridgehampton. When he retired nearly 13 years ago at 65 as chief executive officer and publisher of The Wall Street Journal, and she gave up a teaching and freelance writing career that she had persevered in while raising two daughters, they wanted a new challenge.
 It had to be something that would use their skills. They also wanted to keep active in the world, even as they left Manhattan for full-time residence at their weekend place overlooking the bridge across Sagg Pond, between Bridgehampton and Sagaponack. One thought was buying a local newspaper, but none were for sale. 
 The idea they came up with was to found Bridge Works Publishing Company, which today has about 85 hardback and paperback titles to its credit and lately is averaging 12 a year, mostly fiction. Its next release, due in January, is a murder mystery set in New Jersey during the British occupation in the Revolutionary War. 
 The Phillipses run the company out of their home; Mrs. Phillips is the editor, and Mr. Phillips handles the business side. They have a part-time editorial staff of two. 
"You must be crazy" to go into fiction publishing, people told them, Mrs. Phillips recalled, in a recent interview in the cozy study of their home. But they have had success with Bridge Works. Although they usually sell only a few thousand copies of each title in hardback, they have landed paperback and foreign reprint contracts as well as some television and movie options.
 "It can pay off," said Mr. Phillips with a laugh, as if it were a miracle.
 For example, Ballantine Books bought the paperback rights to "Patty Jane's House of Curl," a novel by Lorna Landvik published by Bridge Works in 1995. It has sold more than a quarter of a million copies, with proceeds of about $200,000 going to Bridge Works. 
 One of the company's biggest success stories is that of Alan Isler, who had given up trying to sell his novel, "Prince of West End Avenue," when the Phillipses accepted it. Published in 1994, the novel was a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle award that year. Penguin put out its paperback edition. Mr. Isler has since had a book published by Viking.
 Another success is Tom Perrotta, whose first book, "Bad Haircut: Stories of the Seventies," a collection of short stories, was also published in 1994 by Bridge Works. It was reprinted by Berkley, part of Penguin, which signed him on for more books, including one that is supposed to be made into a film with Reese Witherspoon, Mrs. Phillips said.
 "We don't mind being the farm team and see them succeed with bigger money than we can afford," she said. 
 Mrs. Phillips grew up on the eastern shore of Virginia, and graduated from the University of Virginia with a degree in English. Mr. Phillips was born in Brooklyn, N.Y., and grew up in Queens. He graduated from Queens College with a degree in economics. They met at a cocktail party in the early 1950's in London. He was The Journal's bureau chief, and she worked in an office job for the United States Office of Naval Research. They were married in London a year later.
 In the mid-1950s, after The Journal had brought Mr. Phillips back to New York and the couple was raising a family in Manhattan, she got a master's degree from New York University and began teaching at a private school in Brooklyn, as well as editing and writing as a freelancer.
 They moved to Chicago, where Mr. Phillips ran The Journal's Midwest edition for seven years, and then returned to New York. Mr. Phillips was named publisher and chief executive officer of the newspaper in 1975. He had worked for The Journal in one capacity or another since college.
 "We had a long and successful professional life and then suddenly you decided to retire," Mrs. Phillips said.
 "I was 65," he interrupted.
 "And we decided we would start another profession, the two of us," she said.
 He continued, "It had to be a shared interest, something to do with the world of words and ideas, a world that dealt with interesting people -- newspaper people, authors, writers...."
 "And you had never had any experience with any kind of writing other than newspaper work," she said.
 "Barbara had written book reviews, freelanced for Vogue and New York magazine," he said.
 "I taught English," she said. "I knew all the great 20th-century-and-before writers. I thought it would be fun to bring Warren into it because his interest in writing and reading was...."
 "Strictly journalistic," he offered.
 "Except for reading 'Editor & Publisher,"' she said.
 "The best thing is she raised my horizons," he said with a half smile.
 It was obvious they had been a team for a long time.
 They looked into buying The Southampton Press, but it was not for sale. Talks with The East Hampton Star went nowhere.
 "We were just brainstorming," Mrs. Phillips said, when they got the idea of forming their own publishing company. The South Fork already had Bill Henderson's Pushcart Press in Amagansett and Martin and Judith Shepherd's Permanent Press in Sag Harbor. And New York friends in the publishing business warned them of its pitfalls.
 But from the beginning, things worked out well. In 2000, they sold the company to Rowman & Littlefield Publishing Group of Lanham, Md., which owns the distributor they use. The Phillipses said they sold the business because their children, two daughters, have their own careers, and there was no succession plan.
 Under the arrangement with Rowman & Littlefield, though, they continue to choose and edit the books. Mr. Phillips still handles much of the marketing, including getting the book reviews that, along with word of mouth and local booksellers, make a book sell. 
 Mr. Phillips said they learned early on how important book reviews were with their 1993 book, "The Hard Way: The Odyssey of a Weekly Newspaper Editor" by Alexander B. Brook. The book, a memoir by Mr. Brook of his life as editor and publisher of a weekly newspaper in Maine, "was reviewed up and down the country," Mr. Phillips said. That made it "a really good launch," he said, adding that because it was about the newspaper businesses, editors wanted to review it.
 "It helped that you knew everybody," Mrs. Phillips added.
 She and their staff, Alexandra Shelley, the deputy editorial director, and Dorothea Halliday, the office manager, pore through more than 3,000 submissions a year, better than 60 a week, she said. It is exhausting work, and Mrs. Phillips said it was not a labor of love.
 "I don't think Warren and I ever have gone into anything as dilettantes," she said. "We wanted to do something that would keep us interested in the world. We haven't regretted a moment of it even though we work so hard."
 She added: "People ask us why. If we were not doing this, we'd be sitting in some nursing home reading."
 "My golf game would be better," Mr. Phillips said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Warren and Barbara Phillips, founders of Bridge Works Publishing Company, which they run out of their home in Bridgehampton. They started the company after he retired as chief executive officer and publisher of The Wall Street Journal. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); LITERARY CRITICISM (62%); EXECUTIVES (57%) Books and Literature; Company and Organization Profiles; Book Trade

COMPANY: BRIDGE WORKS PUBLISHING CO (84%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bridge Works Publishing Co

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: REESE WITHERSPOON (50%) Warren Phillips; Barbara Phillips; Peter Boody

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



374 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2941 words

HEADLINE: Working Relationships 

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
IT is, of course, all in the family. 
 Take the the father and his two sons who run a gynecological practice in Sleepy Hollow. Or the small brother-sister hair-removal empire in Manhattan and Scarsdale. Or the father-son window-washing concern in Larchmont. Or the husband-wife dental practice in Mount Kisco, not to mention the family-owned string of restaurants in Manhattan and Westchester. 
 If the business of America is, in fact, business, then the bulk of the country is family-owned or family-controlled, and Westchester is no exception. Family-run businesses are a fundamental part of the economy, both nationally and on the local level. 
A family business might be a ma-and-pa grocery, a one-person business or a publicly traded company managed by outsiders but influenced by a founder's heirs. The greater part of America's wealth, more than half, is tied up in family-owned business, according to figures from the Family Firm Institute in Boston, a professional organization that advises and consults on family businesses. 
Locally, said Marsha Gordon, the president and chief executive officer of the Business Council of Westchester, which is the new name for the Westchester County Chamber of Commerce, there are no precise figures, but family-run businesses are significant players in the county's economy, she said. 
"They tend to be longstanding businesses, and they often give back the most because they have been so intimately involved," she said. "When it comes to grass roots support, community organization or money for firehouses or little leagues, there are some corporations and large organizations that do a lot, but family businesses are normally in the lead." 
To be sure, family business is not all roses. Unity of purpose among family members can be great, but the complications of family issues on top of the complexities of business can make family businesses extremely stressful. More than 30 percent of family-owned businesses make it to the second generation, according to the Family Firm Institute, but just 12 percent make it to the third generation, and only 3 percent to the fourth.
Paraphrasing Tolstoy, it is safe to say all family business are alike in some ways. Very often, they start with one person and draw others in, as did a hair-removal business founded by Cindy Barshop, who lives in Manhattan. Looking for a bikini waxing, Ms. Barshop, a former I.B.M. saleswoman, went to a hair-removal salon in Manhattan. While she was impressed with the industry's pulsed light technology, Ms. Barshop was awed by the salon's four-month waiting list. 
She decided to open her own hair salon, using her initials in calling it Completely Bare. That first place was on 18th Street and Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. Her parents, Morty and Ruth Barshop from Wantagh on Long Island, helped her paint that first building the night before the opening and her brother, Howard, also painted and helped out. 
With a background in sales and technology, Ms. Barshop took to the business's operations and promotion, but she needed help on the financial end, and Howard, who lives in Tuckahoe and who was working in finance, gave her all his free time. Then came plans for a second salon, this one in Scarsdale.
Ms. Barshop said that the two balanced each other in talents and in temperaments. "I was always the rebel," Ms. Barshop said, "Howard was the nice one. He is just better at interacting with people, dealing with vendors, dealing with so much. I don't shut up in meetings, but he knows when to tell me to be quiet."
Mr. Barshop agreed. "I'm calm and collected," he said. "Everyone likes me. My sister is hard-nosed, the bad cop. We play good-cop/bad-cop with vendors a lot." 
Planning the Scarsdale location, she asked her brother to be an equal partner.
"If I came in full time," Mr. Barshop said. "I couldn't work in the same little place as my sister." Completely Bare now has three locations, with plans for a fourth, and Ms. Barshop said the family nature of the business was a key to its growth. 
"It would have gotten off the ground without Howard," Ms. Barshop said, "but it would not have been pretty." 
The two, she added, were not necessarily close as children, only growing more so after college. Their parents are thrilled to see them working well together, he said. "They think we're the greatest kids," he said. "They just want to see us married."
A different kind of empire was begun in the Sleepy Hollow Medical group, said Dr. Lawrence Mendelowitz, now a partner at the group. He grew up in a community where his father, Dr. Stanley Mendelowitz, now 78, and his uncle, Dr. Eugene Saberski, who died last year, had a well-respected obstetrics and gynecology practice, started by Dr. Saberski in in 1946 and joined by Dr. Stanley Mendelowitz in 1955. Joining them seemed the natural order of things, he said. 
"Because of my father and uncle," said Dr. Lawrence Mendelowitz, 53, now a partner at the Sleepy Hollow Medical Group, "I always had this positive disposition toward the profession. Joining the practice was the culmination of that." Dr. Lawrence Mendelowitz added that, after medical school, he might have pursued a fellowship and gone into a more academic setting, had it not been for the opportunity to join the family practice. He's been there ever since. 
His younger brother, Dr. Mark Mendelowitz, 47, joined the family practice in 1986 and eventually became a full partner, before leaving to pursue music education in Spain in 1999. "When I was younger," Dr. Mark Mendelowitz said, "I wasn't thinking as much as an individual. I was following a path and it was a good path, but still a path that I followed." 
Dr. Mark Mendelowitz said that he needed to find a balance in his life between his career as a doctor and his lifelong interest in music. Such a balance, he added, can be trickier to find in a family business where, he said, you step into an existing structure rather than creating one yourself. "It was a matter of finding out 'Who am I?"' he said, "of separating from Sleepy Hollow Medical Group and being not just another Mendelowitz, but also Mark." Dr. Mark Mendelowitz, back from Spain, is currently working part time at the family practice, and also working at Ossining Open Door, a clinic, while pursuing his classical guitar interests on the side. 
A different kind of father-son business began when Sam Weintraub, now 83, bought a window-washing route in 1948. He washed commercial and residential windows, mostly in Larchmont and Mamaroneck, and his son, Michael, would work with him on the occasional weekend and school holiday.
But Michael, 51, went to college and then to a career as a commodity trader. He never looked back. Or, at least, he almost never looked back. "I always used to say to my father, 'Don't sell the business until you talk to me first,"' he said. "I was half-joking, but I always thought if I got laid off, at least I'd have an ace in the hole." 
Then, about 20 years into his career, Mr. Weintraub did get laid off. "It was a Thursday in 1992," he said, "and I started to freak out. By Monday I was washing windows." Whether it was temporary or not was not clear, Mr. Weintraub added, but he stayed because working for a family business close to home, helped him better care for his son, Eric, 19, who has been chronically ill since infancy with severe anemia. 
Working for two decades outside the business, Larchmont Window Cleaners, was essential to his happiness in working within it, Michael Weintraub said. "When you are washing windows in the morning," he said, "you see everyone with their jackets and suits on, going to Manhattan to go to restaurants and, if you haven't done it yourself, you'd think your missing out on something big. But I've done that and I've been on business trips for two to three weeks. It's just not that glamorous.
"The fantasy is always better than the reality," he said, but it's the getting away from the family business that allowed him to understand that, plus the ability to prove to himself and others that he has talents and knowledge beyond the family business. 
Though he said he was always close to his father, he does have a recommendation to all family business, whether they work on ladders or in board rooms. "An in-house psychologist," said the younger Mr. Weintraub, who took it over the business entirely two months ago when his father retired. 
Echoing that thought in a different way, at the Kellogg School of Management in Evanston, Ill., Lloyd Shefsky, the co-director of the Center for Family Enterprises, said that taking a business to the second generation and beyond is no easy task. There are many advantages to a family business: from the trust factor to the sixth sense that is developed from a lifetime's exposure to the inner workings of a business to the particular talents held in common among management. 
Successful family businesses can go on for generations, a fact that was highlighted last year in an exhibition at the New-York Historical Society called "Family Matters: Century-Old New York City Businesses." (The New York Times, which has been controlled by the Ochs-Sulzberger family since 1896, was not included in the show.) 
But not all family businesses are fortunate enough to live that long. Famous food fights have split the Zabar, Balducci and Manganaro families in the city; farther afield, the Disney empire has been in the news lately with the offspring of the famous Walt Disney at odds with company management. 
Families often have fissures, the sorts of things that are hard to ignore if everyone is spending time in the same storefront. In a family business, emotions can become charged and results can be perilous, experts say. 
"Much of what you find in a family business," Mr. Shefsky said, "you'll find in any business, but to the Nth degree. It's always an expansion, an exaggeration of what normally goes on in business." 
Kathryn Rudie Harrigan, the Henry R. Kravis, professor of business leadership at the Columbia School of Business, said family business can be complicated by perceptions of favoritism, real and imagined, by family members and others in the business. She called it the "idiot nephew factor." It can, she said, be very frustrating "to know the top is blocked by a nephew they think is a blockhead." A dim but favored nephew can be trouble, as can rivalries between siblings or even jealousies between spouses. Ellen Holliday and Charles Azzaretti, who met at Columbia Dental School in the late 1970's and bonded, in part, over a shared vision about how patients should be treated. Though they did their residencies separately, they eventually married, moved to Brewster and opened their own practice together in Mount Kisco. 
Dr. Holliday said that she needed to learn not to be competitive with her husband. "Some patients like one of us better than the other and in the beginning it could really bother me," she said. "But there are so many intangibles involved, so many personality issues, that I had to learn to not worry about it, to realize that it all goes in the same pot." 
The arrangement has advantages that are both big and small, Dr. Holliday said. One spouse can cover a patient emergency for the other if there is a commitment involving one of their two children. Their receptionist can schedule their entire lives. "She's basically mine and my husband's wife," Dr. Holliday said. 
There are negatives, like the difficulty finding coverage when they go on family vacations, but when asked whether they spend too much time together, Dr. Holliday said that the separate treatment rooms are a help. They also say they have complimentary talents that help them work well as husband and wife and also as business partners. 
Dr. Holliday said: "He is very interested in elaborate new dental procedures and continuing education in implants and root canal therapies. I'm more oriented toward the business part of the practice. I know what's in the bank account. He has a vague idea." 
Many family businesses are much bigger than this one. For example, Strauss Paper, a Port Chester provider of janitorial and paper supplies with revenues in the area of $35 million and 100 employees, was started by Henry Strauss, who escaped Nazi Germany in the 1930's and began selling cleaning products out of his car. The company is now owned by Stewart Strauss and Joyce Strauss Jonap, Henry's children. A host of family members work there, including Mrs. Jonap's husband, Bob. The business was recently inducted into the county's business Hall of Fame.
Mrs. Jonap said that the fact that they are a family business is a natural selling point, because it engenders good will among customers, but managing a family business is not all roses.
"Like any business," Stewart Strauss said, "as it gets bigger, it doesn't get easier. And in a family business, it can be more complicated because there are more family members involved." 
The key, he said, are formalized discussions of roles, whether those discussions take place outside the board of directors or with the business consultants brought in. 
And when all that talk and defining of roles doesn't work, and there are fights? 
"We know to take a deep breath," Mrs. Jonap said. "And then go for a walk." 
One of the best-known family businesses in the area is a restaurant empire that started with a $1,300 purchase of a luncheonette in Astoria, Queens. The founder, John Livanos, a 67-year-old Greek immigrant, has become one of the most successful restaurateurs in the area, now joined by two sons and a daughter. The family owns two City Limits Diners in White Plains, one in Stamford, the Cafe Meze in Hartsdale and two Manhattan restaurants: Molyvos and Oceana. 
The Livanos children grew up in whatever restaurants their father owned at the time, . Mr. Livanos said his children were always welcome to join his business, but he had one demand: college first. 
Mr. Livanos said that when his sons Nick, now 44, and Bill, now 40, went into the business he was focused on traditional 24-hour-a day, 7-day-a-week diners, and they wanted to take it in a new direction. "They told me they loved the business, but wanted to go more upscale," Mr. Livanos said. "They didn't want to stay in a 24/7 diner, which is a rough world. I heard what they wanted and it was something I wanted too." 
The family opened Livanos, an upscale restaurant on the Central Avenue site where a City Limits diner currently is. But it was a mistake, said Mr. Livanos, too big a restaurant for such food. The family eventually converted it into the successful City Limits diner. 
When Corina Livanos, 33, graduated from the University of Rhode Island in 1992, she had no intention of joining the family business. But Oceana, a seafood restaurant, was opening at 55 East 54th Street, and a brother asked her to help out temporarily. 
"I know how demanding the restaurant business is," Ms. Livanos said, "so I told my brother I'd give it until Christmas. Embarrassingly, I've been here ever since." She said that as well as she gets along with her siblings, their working together is successful, in part, because of the separate locations, a thought echoed by Bill Livanos, who said they all have separate areas of expertise. For John Livanos, the success of the restaurants gives him energy, he said, as does the opportunity to work with his three children. It's just knowing that, together, they have built something that can sustain the family for years to come. "These are going to be their places," Mr. Livanos said. 

Family Ties? Put It in Writing. Get a Third Party.
AS always, much of the performance of a business is determined by individual managers' abilities, whether they are family members or not, and the vagaries of the business cycle. While sure-fire steps to succeed in a family business have yet to be invented, experts suggest that some measures can make the odds for success more favorable. 
Formal communication is the key, experts agree. A family's tendency to be casual in communication or to assume that things are understood are a major enemy, said Eugene Muscat, the director of the Gellert Foundation Family Business Center at the University of San Francisco. 
"For a family business to succeed," he said, "you always have to make the implicit explicit." This means job descriptions, a written overview of responsibilities and compensation, everything from tasks to salaries to hours, he said. "It's something hardly anyone in a family business has, but everyone needs," he said. "Sometimes Uncle Giorgio has always been making the same amount, but no one knows if he's overpaid or underpaid." Beyond that, maybe Cousin Susie always charges her car expenses and repairs to the business, while Cousin Jo thinks her Mercedes should come out of her pocketbook. Direct communication and written agreements help. 
For a small business a council of outside advisers should be created and for a large business an outside board is important, with both providing external voices. 
"They have to be people who can tell the patriarch and matriarch the things the children can't always tell them," said Mr. Muscat, who added that older generations classically have problems standing back or letting go of their businesses so the next generation can take over. Older generations often have problems spending on technologies that the younger generation wants.
Sometimes business decisions come down to a choice between what's best for the business and what's best for the family. "When push comes to shove between lifestyle and profits," he said, "a family business will almost always come down on the side of lifestyle." Marek Fuchs

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Weintraub, left, and his father, Samuel Weintraub, clean windows together. The Livanos family gathers for breakfast at City Limits Diner. Ellen Holliday and Charles Azzaretti practice dentistry together. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dr. Mark Mendelowitz, left, his brother, Dr. Lawrence Mendelowitz and their father, Dr. Stanley Mendelowitz are in the Mendelowitz office.; A sign of togetherness hangs outside the Mount Kisco office of Charles D. Azzaretti and Ellen G. Holliday. Far left: Dr. Azzaretti works with a patient in an exam room, and Dr. Holliday works in an adjoining room in their dental office. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COMPANIES (93%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HAIR REMOVAL SERVICES (84%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TRENDS (72%); STATISTICS (72%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Small Business; Families and Family Life

ORGANIZATION: Family Firm Institute

PERSON: Marek Fuchs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



375 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Holiday Shopping From Across the Counter

BYLINE:  By Betsy Cummings

 BODY:
The sales associate training program at Macy's covers a variety of topics, though stripping mannequins, consulting on what to wear in the Caribbean and cleaning hamburger grease left on display tables by customers who eat while they shop are not among them. Yet since starting work as a sales associate at Macy's three weeks ago, Brenda Davis has faced her share of those tasks -- some of them regularly.
Such is the life of employees working the holiday rush at department stores nationwide. And in New York City, the phenomenon of seasonal help is as much a part of the holiday season as lighting the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree. 
 With an uptick of 10 points in consumer confidence from October to November, according to the Conference Board, a business research group, Ms. Davis and other workers can expect a boom December. Of course that will mean more customer complaints, demands and antics as well. 
 Every sale day, Ms. Davis worries that shirts on display in the Macy's Kids section where she works will become temporary napkins for shoppers who stop at the McDonald's next to her department. "It gets so crowded that people spill out of the restaurant and sit on our display tables," said Ms. Davis, who works from 5:45 p.m. to midnight. It's a wonder, she said, that the nearby Tommy Hilfiger clothes haven't been splattered with ketchup or Big Mac sauce. 
One shopper recently asked what type of dress to send to a friend in Trinidad. Ms. Davis simply guessed that one of the cotton dresses on display nearby would be ideal.
This year retailers nationwide will have hired some 750,000 seasonal workers, according to statistics from the National Retail Federation. And retail sales overall are expected to jump by just over 5 percent, said Jay McIntosh, the Americas director of retail and consumer products at Ernst & Young in New York.
Sales from Black Friday, the shopping day after Thanksgiving, were up 3 to 5 percent statewide from last year, said Ted Potrikus, executive vice president of the Retail Council of New York State. 
That was apparent, said Ms. Davis, who on that day faced short-tempered customers, no breaks and mountains of clothes. "It was more business than I expected," she said. "Customers get so bitchy if the line is long. And on Black Friday, you couldn't walk anywhere without stepping on fabric.
"I don't know what's wrong with these people," Ms. Davis said of customers who pulled clothes from the racks, inspected them, then simply dumped them on the floor as they perused other merchandise. 
None of that, though, tops her experience with a mannequin one day when a customer holding a pair of jeans asked to compare the pair in her hand with the mannequin's identical pair. Ms. Davis pulled the mannequin from its base and undressed it, only to have the customer decide that the jeans were "too dusty" to buy. It wasn't until the mannequin was dressed again that Ms. Davis realized the woman was holding a pair of jeans without a tag. Since store policy forbids the sale of any item without a price tag, Ms. Davis lifted the mannequin once more, dragged it to the register and awkwardly fumbled to scan the tag from the mannequin's jeans. 
"There is a certain amount of immersion training" that occurs with holiday help, Mr. Potrikus said. "Often it's here's the exit, here's the front door, here's the stuff: go to work." But gearing up for the onslaught is no easy task for human resource managers at stores during the holidays, he added.
Ms. Davis had only a few days of hectic training before being put to work. Still, she would not trade her job. Last year, she worked at Mandee, a department store in Jackson Heights, and assumed she would return this year for another stint as a holiday worker -- something many store owners look forward to. Instead, her cousin persuaded Ms. Davis to join her in applying at Macy's. "I got the job and she didn't," said Ms. Davis, whose cousin now babysits for Ms. Davis's two boys while she works. "Now I'm hoping to stay."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers crowded onto Macy's main floor on the day after Thanksgiving. Sometimes the customers' zeal and rudeness can drive the salespeople to anger or despair. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FORCE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); SALES TRAINING (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); STATISTICS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); FABRICS (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Retail Stores and Trade; Christmas; Labor; Consumer Behavior; Sales; Temporary Employment

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (95%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Macy's

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%)

PERSON: Betsy Cummings; Brenda Davis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



376 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: The King of Retail, in the Spotlight 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In "Is Wal-Mart Good for America?" (Week In Review, Dec. 7), W. Michael Cox, chief economist of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, says: "Wal-Mart is the greatest thing that ever happened to low-income Americans. 
They can stretch their dollars and afford things they otherwise couldn't." 
 As one of the largest employers in the country, Wal-Mart is following a variant of Henry Ford's principle of building cars that his workers could afford to buy. Wal-Mart's low-wage, low-benefit employees can afford to shop nowhere else.

STEVE FROLKING
Durham, N.H., Dec. 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (85%); PERSONAL FINANCE (84%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (84%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (83%); RETAILERS (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Retail Stores and Trade; Wages and Salaries; Labor; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Armament and Defense; Homosexuality

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

PERSON: Steve Frolking; Tanya L Domi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



377 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 6; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Bad Behavior at School 

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
Re "In School, Bad Behavior Shown the Door" (Nov. 16).
 The article about the increase in suspensions and expulsions in all grades of Connecticut schools presented a comprehensive and objective view of an alarming situation. There is no question about zero tolerance policies when routinely there are accounts of violence, harassment, bullying and other dangerous practices that trouble administrators, teachers, parents and children. Despite the need for the extreme measures of suspension or expulsion, these procedures are dealing with the symptom, not the problem. 
 Frequently children suspended or expelled from school are less supervised at home during the time they have been banished from classes. Often they are left in the care of others less invested in their well being. This is not an indictment of parents or caregivers -- it is a reality. Regardless of the circumstances the predicament exists primarily because of the unwillingness or inability on the part of parents to set limits, apply natural consequences when rules are violated, and to apply benevolent authority that has the child's best interest at heart. 
The inability to effectively parent crosses all socio-economic and ethnic lines. It is the least pleasurable and most difficult aspect of parenting while the same time being the most necessary function toward the goal of raising healthy, responsible citizens. This is a pervasive problem that needs attention. Without censure, without blame, there needs to be a concerted effort to help families recognize their vital role in changing the root situations that lead to suspensions and expulsions and to offer viable help to them to assist their children to live within a structure that is safe for them and others. 
As a family therapy educator and a director of a family therapy clinic, the fall-out to families where help is too little too late is a tremendous part of the work we do. Now that the symptom is so widespread, perhaps the problem can receive attention. 

Barbara J. Lynch
New Haven

The writer is the director of the Marriage and Family Therapy Program at Southern Connecticut State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (90%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); FAMILY SERVICES (89%); BULLYING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); WRITERS (73%); COUPLE COUNSELING (63%) Education and Schools; Bullies 

PERSON: Barbara J Lynch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



378 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFINGS: ROAD AND RAIL; 
NO RISE IN GAS TAX

BYLINE:  NYT

 BODY:
 A proposal to increase the state gasoline tax was derailed last week when Governor McGreevey said he would not support the measure -- at least for now -- because he feared it would smother the state's economic recovery. A commission appointed by the governor had said that without the increase, the state's Transportation Trust Fund would soon run out of money to pay for construction and repair of roads and bridges. 
The increase had the backing of construction unions and some business groups, but many drivers opposed it. Democratic lawmakers were unable to win support from Republicans, even after they proposed using some of the tax increase to eliminate the highly unpopular tolls on the Garden State Parkway. 
 Mr. McGreevey said the potential economic effect was too great to risk. Instead, he wants some construction projects delayed and other budget cuts found. Because the transportation fund is expected to run out of money in 18 months, lawmakers and the governor will probably return to the issue next year, when Democrats will control both houses of the Legislature. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL TAX (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); TAX INCREASES (88%); GASOLINE (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); TAX LAW (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); BUDGETS (88%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (70%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); BUDGET CUTS (51%) Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Law and Legislation; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



379 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Hear Them Roar: Let the Boom Begin 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
AFTER a three-year absence because of a moribund economy, the ritual announcement of Wall Street's year-end bonuses was on display again this year. How the billions in bonus money was spread around made front-page news last week in New York, where the tabloids used the phrase "eye popping" to describe the amounts being dispensed. The man of the hour was Philip J. Purcell, chairman and chief executive of Morgan Stanley, who raked in $12 million.
 The bonus parade coincided with reports of packed restaurants and airline flights. "This economy of ours is strong, and it is getting stronger," President Bush said. 
 But at the Labor Ready day-labor center in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, Daniel J. Levens was experiencing the same economic revival in a somewhat less pronounced fashion.
"I just don't see a big difference right now," said Mr. Levens, a manager who matches workers with short-term hauling and building jobs. "It's not worse. It's not better. It's just the same."
Dave Rick, 39, who was laid off from a printing company just before Thanksgiving, was more dour. "It doesn't feel good," Mr. Rick said. "After eight years, I got three months' severance. I'm sweating my mortgage, trying to keep the fear at low tide."
Why this disparity between Wall Street, where the betting is that another boom is beginning, and the experience of the rest of the country? It seems to occur at the beginning of every upswing in the business cycle, economists point out, because the American economy, for good or ill, is led by its financial markets.
"The fact that Wall Street bonuses are rising and Joe Schmo's wages are not rising doesn't mean that's a permanent state of affairs," said Ian Shepherdson, North American analyst at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm in Valhalla, N.Y. 
Job losses, in this view, are the inevitable result of changes in our innovative, self-renewing economy. Yes, many jobs in many industries are disappearing. But the American economy is geared toward producing new jobs in new industries, powered by new investment. 
As the engine of that investment, Wall Street regularly booms and busts in advance of the rest of the country. The market took a big fall in October 1987, for example, and it was nearly three years before the national economy began to contract.
"The people in the middle are stagnating in terms of their earnings, the people at the top are gaining ground and the people at the bottom are losing," said Robert H. Frank, an economics professor at Cornell.
One reason for this unequal result, said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, a liberal research group, is that workers have lost bargaining power as growth and productivity have remained strong while employment faltered.
"Essentially there's a line outside the factory door, and by the way, it's not just the factory door, it's the office door and the software designer door," Mr. Bernstein said. "There's no incentive to bid wages up."
This is revealed in figures from the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis, indicating that corporate profits were substantially up for 2002, while personal income fell.
This does not mean that, eventually, a rising tide on Wall Street won't lift all the boats on Main Street -- or that those boats won't stay afloat for a while even after Wall Street runs dry. For example, though the Nasdaq began to fall from its peak in March 2000, unemployment, then at only 4 percent, did not begin to rise significantly for almost a year.
Besides, Americans have historically accepted the idea of the self-made individual and its economic corollary: that the biggest risk-takers should get the biggest rewards. 
"There's a great deal of mobility," said Bruce Bartlett, an economist who worked in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and the first George Bush. "People do move up and down the income ladder with great regularity."
Trade is another factor in widening the gap, and not merely in terms of jobs lost to low-wage overseas economies. When businesses in the United States engage with foreign companies that pay a fraction of their wages, the dollars that are sent overseas return as investments in stock and bond markets in the United States, said James Grant, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer.
"That money ends up back here, which is good for Morgan Stanley, it's good for Goldman Sachs, it causes the pictures of their C.E.O.'s to end up on the front page of The Daily News," Mr. Grant said. "Meantime, people just as photogenic are left out of a job."
Liberal researchers say that this growing inequality is a result of free-market policies that favor the so-called invisible hand of competition, forgoing regulations and wage minimums and discouraging unions.
Conservative researchers say that the counterexample is the European job market, where wages are kept steady and dismissing employees is difficult and where unemployment rates have generally been higher, sometimes much higher, than in the United States in recent decades. It is unclear, in the end, whether Europeans could tolerate the uncertainty that comes with the American emphasis on constant change. 
Conversely, the optimism with which Americans have traditionally regarded their prospects may make them peculiarly susceptible to the promise of a roller-coaster economy. 
Mr. Grant said, "The Daily News can put Phil Purcell's picture on the front page and his salary and there's not going to be rioting, because people sense that if Morgan Stanley does better, they're going to do better." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); THANKSGIVING (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); LIBERALISM (60%); AIRLINES (55%) Stocks and Bonds; Bonuses; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%) Michael Brick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



380 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
When the Chinese Consumer Is King

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
FOR decades, the United States was the world's only significant mass market, offering businesses more than enough consumers to buy up ever greater volumes of their merchandise and services. To gain access to all these consumers, companies had to operate inside the country. And they could do so very profitably, because they benefited from economies of scale, meaning that each item coming off an assembly line was less expensive to produce than the one before. 
 The wealth generated, in profits and wages, has made the United States far and away the world's most powerful nation for nearly a century. No one else had ever been able to match the American achievement. But now the world is witnessing the birth of a mass market in China, whose 1.2 billion people hold the promise of consumption on a much greater scale than in the United States. 
 That prospect is still a generation or two away, economists say, and assumes that political or economic disruptions do not derail it. But a consumer class is rising fast. The Chinese are buying cellphones, refrigerators, computers, cars, toys, furniture, television sets, airliners and designer clothing in ever greater numbers. As this mass market asserts itself, China becomes a problem for the United States not just for the exodus of tens of thousands of American jobs but for the potential to use economies of scale to keep those jobs, even if Chinese wages rise to American levels.
"The notion that God intended for Americans to be permanently wealthier than the rest of the world, that gets less and less likely as time goes on," said Robert M. Solow, the Nobel laureate in economics. 
This sense of entitlement to pre-eminent wealth and world power has been a national characteristic stretching back to Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson. Now China is undermining that singular influence. More and more it can defy American demands, and worry less about the economic effects. Last week, for example, its prime minister, Wen Jiabao, visiting the White House, once again ignored President Bush's pleas to increase the value of the Chinese currency. A stronger yuan would make it more expensive for American manufacturers to shift operations and jobs to China. 
In Asia, China is supplanting the United States as the principal trading partner for several countries, including South Korea. This influence reduces American power in the region, not only economically but militarily. 
China's power seems certain to increase as it develops its mass market, chipping away at the American role as the world's buyer of last resort, the only nation capable of bolstering other countries' economies with its vast purchases of their goods and services. For 60 years, that purchasing power has made America the unchallenged leader in trade negotiations and political influence, a leadership now gradually eroding. 
A big stick in this leadership, apart from military might, has been the threat of tariffs and import quotas -- of cutting off the golden American consumer from outsiders. But with the rise of China as an alternative mass market, American restrictions on European steel imports or Brazilian citrus, for example, lose potency. Why worry that much about being kept out of the United States when China provides more than enough buyers? 
Mass markets were critically important in inflating America's sense of itself. As the economic historian Alfred Chandler has pointed out, Microsoft and Intel grow rich today on economies of scale just as the Ford Motor Company did nearly a century ago with the assembly line. One thousand copies of Microsoft Word or a thousand Intel computer chips role off the line in little more time than the first 100, adding only pennies to the cost of the initial production. Invention and development are already paid for, and also most of the labor. 
That makes selling all this output critically important. If sales rise 20 percent a year in the Chinese mass market and only 5 percent in the much older, more saturated American market, then the pressure builds on Microsoft and Intel to make China the center of production, not merely the site of many factories, and to export to the United States as a secondary market.
In this new arrangement, the American mass market survives and grows, but China's grows more quickly and that holds Microsoft and Intel in place there, even as Chinese wages rise to the United States level. The productivity that results from economies of scale -- that is, rising output per worker -- generates more than enough revenue to pay the higher wages and also fattens profits, a compelling reason to stay put rather than move on to a country with even lower wages. Pressure mounts to shift research and marketing from the United States to China.
"As the Chinese become richer and their tastes move closer to those of the higher-income world, then companies that put their plants in China basically to export from there will find themselves increasingly producing for that market," said Richard Nelson, an economist at Columbia University. "That seems to be what is beginning to happen now."
China's share of the world's output of goods and services has nearly doubled since 1991, to 12.7 percent, closing in on the European Union's 15.7 percent and approaching America's 21 percent, according to the International Monetary Fund. No other nation comes close to China's explosive expansion, all of it generating purchasing power for a rapidly growing work force. India has increased its share by 33 percent since 1991, but still accounts for a meager 4.8 percent of total global output. The American share, although clearly the largest, has not changed since 1980. 
As dramatic as these developments are, the tipping point is a long way off, said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley. "The Chinese are producers now and they will become mass market consumers, but only after a long lag," he said. "And the reason is lack of income. The Chinese are still firing eight or nine million workers a year as part of their reforming of state-owned enterprises, and those workers don't have a safety net" -- much less a wage. 
Even so, it is no longer possible for the United States to regain the special access to income and profits that its mass market made possible, Mr. Solow argues. America, like everyone else, must get used to being a loser as well as a gainer in the global economy. In the end, the 21st century is unlikely to be the American Century.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shopping in Beijing. As China's mass market supplants America's, world power may shift as well. (Photo by Agence France-Press/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); CURRENCIES (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); IMPORT CONTROLS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (53%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (75%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



381 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: A Cottage in a Storm; 
For Rowland, a Lakeside Retreat Has Become a Political Liability

BYLINE:  By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
An indignant Gov. John G. Rowland was standing before reporters and deflecting questions about his private lakeside cottage.
 "As I've said before," he insisted, "there was no sweetheart deal, everything was above board." 
 That scene could easily have played out last week, as Mr. Rowland sought to defuse a growing crisis surrounding his acceptance of free work on the cottage from contractors and state aides. 
But in fact, he made those comments in August 1997, shortly after buying the weekend retreat from a foundation led by one of his political appointees. Six years later, with Mr. Rowland in his third term, the little house on the shore of Bantam Lake in the picturesque Litchfield Hills of Connecticut is still causing headaches for the governor.
Indeed, some political observers are predicting that questions raised about the cottage, and Mr. Rowland's admission on Friday that he had misled the public when answering them, could lead to his downfall.
It is a predicament layered in paradoxes, not the least of which is that the humble cottage, which Mr. Rowland and his wife bought for $110,000 with a $5,000 down payment, always had a decidedly down-market air about it, as far as getaways for Connecticut politicians go.
Mr. Rowland's predecessor, Lowell P. Weicker Jr., had Applejack Farm, a multimillion-dollar property in Greenwich, and Barbara B. Kennelly, a former United States representative who unsuccessfully challenged Mr. Rowland for governor in 1998, enjoys the use of a family compound on the Connecticut shoreline.
It may turn out that Mr. Rowland's efforts to upgrade the seasonal cottage into a handsomely furnished, year-round retreat will present the biggest political and legal crises of what had once seemed a charmed career. Indeed, critics have seized on the cottage as an example of what they say is the governor's tendency to accept gratuities, only to be forced later to make restitution or pay fines when they become public.
On Friday, he released a statement listing a number of contractors, state officials and employees, as well as "personal friends," who he says performed thousands of dollars of renovations free of charge. Of particular interest to federal prosecutors are services provided by two of Mr. Rowland's former top aides and a state contractor who are at the center of a corruption investigation into the awarding of government contracts.
Mr. Rowland admitted that in 1999 his aides Peter Ellef, then his co-chief of staff, and Lawrence E. Alibozek, then his deputy chief of staff, paid for heating improvements. Also that year, a company owned by the contractor, the Tomasso Group of New Britain, performed exterior work involving gutters and drainage.
Mr. Alibozek has admitted accepting cash and gold coins in 1999 in exchange for steering state contracts to Tomasso, and Mr. Ellef's dealings with Tomasso are also under investigation.
Yesterday, two law enforcement sources said that federal agents were trying to determine whether any money given to Mr. Alibozek or Mr. Ellef was used to pay for the improvements to Mr. Rowland's cottage, and who requested the work. One of the sources drew an analogy to the prosecution of former Bridgeport Mayor Joseph P. Ganim on charges that his close aides used cash from bribes to buy expensive perks for Mr. Ganim.
"The timing of any money flowing from Tomasso to Ellef and Alibozek, in relation to the work they did on the cottage, is very important," the source said.
The four-room cottage has engendered controversy almost from the moment the Rowlands purchased it from the White Memorial Foundation, which operates a nature preserve in Litchfield. The president of the foundation was Arthur H. Diedrick, a senior economic development adviser to Mr. Rowland.
The foundation's property stretches across 4,000 acres and includes cottages owned by more than 30 people. The Rowlands, like many of the other cottage owners, bought their cottage by borrowing money from the foundation.
The Rowlands gave the foundation a $105,000 mortgage, for 25 years at 7.25 percent interest. They also make annual payments of $3,000 to the foundation for a 25-year lease on the land on which the cottage is built.
The arrangement drew criticism from the head of the state Democratic Party at the time, Edward Marcus, who accused Mr. Rowland, a Republican, of using his influence as governor to get special treatment in buying the cottage.
In a statement distributed to the news media shortly after Mr. Rowland's purchase, Mr. Marcus said the governor had obtained "an exceptional bargain on his purchase of a highly desirable property."
Mr. Rowland went on the offensive, defending the terms of the deal and accusing Mr. Marcus of waging a partisan smear campaign. The issue eventually wound up before the State Ethics Commission, which ruled that the cottage purchase had not violated state law.
The commission concluded that while the purchase was somewhat unusual in its terms, and the interest rate was slightly below what local banks were offering, the overall transaction was roughly equivalent to other sales around the lake.
"I think the average person out there understands that even governors have an opportunity and a chance to buy a piece of property," Mr. Rowland said at the time.
The ethics ruling in hand, Mr. Rowland sought to put the issue of the cottage behind him. He had largely succeeded, until last week.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A sign at the entrance to the driveway of the Rowlands' retreat on Bantam Lake. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times); The lakeside cottage of Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut in the Litchfield Hills. He bought the weekend home in 1997. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); POLITICS (75%); BRIBERY (70%); ETHICS (68%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); COINS & COINAGE (65%); FINES & PENALTIES (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); CORRUPTION (60%) Ethics; Bribery; Politics and Government; Governors (US)

ORGANIZATION: Tomasso Group (Co)

PERSON: Mike Mcintire; John G (Gov) Rowland; Lawrence E Alibozek; Peter Ellef

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



382 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1846 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Long Christmas List? You Can Outsource It

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY

DATELINE: Boston 

 BODY:
WATCHING Samantha von Sperling shop, you quickly get the feeling that she has never wasted time looking for a space in a mall parking lot. Eschewing the crowds, she began her holiday shopping early last month with a Thursday-morning romp through Emporio Armani, where she had the store practically to herself.
 She soon settled on a likely gift for Hannah, 17: a bracelet-style watch with a translucent rubber strap in ice blue. Hannah may be too young for her first Cartier, Ms. von Sperling said, but this will tide her over nicely. 
 "It's hip, it's young, it's rubber," she said, admiring it under the store's flattering lights. The price was an acceptable $125, well within budget. 
 Never mind that Ms. von Sperling has never met Hannah. As a personal shopper, she is paid to find perfect, heartfelt presents for everyone on someone else's list. On this day, it took about two hours to find gifts for six of the seven people on the list of her client, an editor who is the mother of two teenagers.
 "It's O.K. to say: 'You know what? I'm too busy. I have no idea what these kids want. I hate shopping. It puts me in an evil mood, and I'm not known for my gift-giving skills,"' she said as she scanned the window displays on Newbury Street here. 
 Many people think of personal shoppers as professional clotheshorses who help busy women put together their wardrobes. During the holiday season, though, their regular clients -- plus a few seasonal ones -- often ask them for assistance with much broader shopping lists. 
 But outsourcing holiday chores is not cheap. Personal shoppers who work independently may charge $25 to $250 an hour or more; many also ask to be reimbursed for transportation costs. And while the personal-shopping services offered by some high-end department stores are free, the shoppers, some of whom work on commission, cannot do much comparison shopping because they are limited to what is available in their stores. 
 In economic booms, some personal shoppers will sometimes get more business than they can handle comfortably. These days, however, many would describe business about the same way as some retailers would -- not exactly brisk, though slow and steady. 
 "Their budgets are a little bit lower, and they are very targeted in whom they are giving to," Deborrah Ashley, a personal shopper in Atlanta, said of both her corporate and individual clients.
 Linda Lee, who started the personal shopping service at Macy's department stores 25 years ago and is now the group vice president of special services for the chain, would not provide specific sales figures, though she said that during the holidays about 85 percent of the calls to the service, called Macy's by Appointment, were related to gifts. 
 "The people that come to us typically for wardrobe suddenly say, 'Can you do my Christmas shopping for me?"' she said. 
 There is no specific set of qualifications for becoming a personal shopper. Ms. Lee hires some of her staff members from sales positions, but she considers anyone who has a talent in reading a person's needs and wants.
 "It could be an interior designer, or someone who has been in real estate and has experience evaluating which home is appropriate for which purchaser," she said. "You need to have a good taste level, but it doesn't have to be my taste level."
 Lesley Barnette, who owns Jazz Personal Management, a service in Nashua, N.H. (www.jazzpersonalmanagement.com), bills herself as a professional organizer who will put in order everything from home closets to office filing systems. But her knack for order, she says, also makes her an efficient shopper. She is working with a small-business owner who has about 20 people on a holiday gift list.
 "For her, it just makes sense not to spend her valuable time shopping," Ms. Barnette said. "She would rather be building her business."
 MS. BARNETTE, who goes by the nickname "Jazz," considers herself a customer of good taste, but she is perhaps more relevantly a woman of patience.
 "I'm not a compulsive shopper," she said. "I take my time and research and look carefully at things." 
 When her clients are paying her $50 an hour, though, they also expect her to be expedient. She says she uses a spreadsheet instead of a mere shopping list, including a column for each recipient's age, hobbies, sports, interests, past gifts received, satisfaction with those gifts and possible shopping destinations. ("Maybe they're an L.L. Bean or Eddie Bauer kind of person," she said.)
 Most important, she solicits some seed ideas from her clients. Most people have the creativity to give good gifts, she said, but they need to be coaxed. "Having an objective party to not only bounce their ideas off and validate them but to expand them is probably what's really most helpful for people," she said. "They are just coming to me maybe for that great idea and the legwork that people don't want to do or don't have time to do."
 Ms. Ashley, in Atlanta, says she got her start in the personal-shopping business in her father's insurance office, where she would buy the gifts for his assistants and clients. She now charges busy professionals -- like a judge, a comedian and lawyers --$25 an hour to take care of their long gift lists. In her business, called Ashley's Personal Shopping (www.debbieashley.com), she also tackles holiday cards, right down to copying the boss's signature. 
 The holidays are clearly her crunch time. "They wait until the week before to call me in desperation," she said.
 Ms. von Sperling's three-year-old business, Polished Social Image Consultants (www.socialimage.net), includes lessons in etiquette, dance, speech and overall style, in addition to personalized shopping. She charges $85 an hour for shopping services.
 Her gift-giving credentials go back to her youth. Her father is a psychiatrist from Britain, and her mother is an industrial designer from France. She says her family spent time hobnobbing with ambassadors and presidents at parties in Europe and South America, and it was in both places that she learned about etiquette and hostess gifts. "I knew from an early age what the protocol was," she said.
 She said her mother had taught her about the finer things in life. Their Saturday afternoons were often spent curled up with a block of fine chocolate and copies of French Vogue and French Elle. Her mother would read to her while she looked at the pictures. "That's one of my warm, fuzzy memories," Ms. von Sperling said. "My mother loved to shop -- really loved to shop."
 Although she has been known to buy silver teething rings from Tiffany for baby showers, she can appreciate a bargain. After her recent trip to Armani, her next stop was Crate & Barrel, where she picked up a red leather photo album, at $44.95, for one of her client's friends. 
 Her client, Suki Sporer, 49, a manuscript editor at the Harvard Business Review, said her family would probably end up with more personalized gifts than usual this year. She typically puts off Hanukkah shopping until the last minute. "I end up doing a lot of catalog buying and gift certificates for my kids and stuff like that," she said. She also tends to go over budget, while Ms. von Sperling kept well within her guidelines of $200 a person.
 Although Ms. von Sperling searched for the gifts, Ms. Sporer said she had final approval. "She narrowed it down to choices," she said, "but ultimately, it was my choice." 
 Choice may be one reason to pick an independent shopper over a department store service. An independent personal shopper may look for one-of-a-kind gifts in boutiques or high-end department stores and search a discount store for the best prices. (Ms. Barnette has a particular affection for Home Goods and T.J. Maxx.)
 But that doesn't mean that department stores' personal shoppers show customers only the most expensive items. Stores provide personal-shopping services to build customer loyalty, and exceeding a customer's budget rarely leads to repeat business.
 "I wouldn't say it's as close as a friendship, but it is a relationship," Amanda Nicholson, an assistant professor of retail management at Syracuse University, said of the client-shopper bond. "If the personal shopper betrays that trust, like everything else, you get found out. It's just not going to be to their benefit." 
 Because customers entrust much personal information to their shopping surrogate, they should always check the background of their shopper, Ms. Nicholson added. Department stores usually keep a credit card on file for purchases, while some independent shoppers may also use a client's card.
 "That would be, to me, like having someone clean your house or come to baby-sit," she said. "I would want a reference from another client, especially for an independent." 
 The Association of Image Consultants International in Dallas (www.aici.org), which has about 450 members, offers certification for image professionals, many of whom do some form of personal shopping. 
 Many professional shoppers have one thing in common: a true love for shopping. 
 "For me, it's the thrill of the hunt," Ms. von Sperling said as she continued her search that Thursday morning, stopping at Williams-Sonoma (for peppermint bark candy), Crane & Company (for Visconti fountain pens modeled after the colors in van Gogh paintings) and Starbucks (for a much-needed shot of espresso). 
 The gift recipients may never know the role she played, but they may appreciate the newfound serenity of the gift giver.
 "It's going to keep you from feeling drained from the holidays," she said, "and keep you from feeling grouchy and Grinchlike."

A Strategy Can Ease the Gift Hunt
HERE are a few holiday shopping tips from professional shoppers:

Keep a file on family and friends. This is a handy resource for gift recipients' vital statistics, like sizes, favorite colors or musical tastes. It is also a good place to keep sales receipts, which can help you keep track of your spending.

Shop at off-peak times. Many stores are less crowded during the middle of the week than on weekends. And smaller crowds can mean less stress and better service. (While it's too late this year, think about shopping before the holiday season officially begins.)

Combine the practical and the extravagant. For example, a husband who wants a romantic gift for his business-executive wife might consider packaging an elegant nightgown or necklace in a stylish briefcase or leather tote. A woman who wants to give her husband a gift from herself and their young son could dress a teddy bear in a cashmere sweater -- in the husband's size.

Look for the unusual. Many distinctive imported goods are available online, in department stores and some discount stores for relatives and friends who appreciate something other than gloves or sweaters.

Something is better than nothing. If money is tight, consider creating a small basket of inexpensive gifts, like chocolates or tree ornaments.

Don't shop till you drop. Take plenty of breaks, and treat yourself to a cup of coffee or a snack. You may also want to take along a friend for company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Samantha von Sperling, foreground, tries on earrings in front of a mirror at Emporio Armani, where Svetlana Eghterafi works. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PERSONAL SHOPPER SERVICES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (72%); SALES FIGURES (65%) Christmas; Christmas Gifts; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (85%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (85%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%)

PERSON: Julie Flaherty

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



383 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1993 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Hopes It Won't Be Lost in Translation 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: Akabane, Japan 

 BODY:
IT'S 8:15 on a Friday morning and about 50 managers of the Seiyu supermarket chain are assembled on the second floor of their headquarters here, 30 minutes from downtown Tokyo. Surrounded by signs listing hot products, new promotions and performance rates, many of the chiefs have already been at work for an hour.
 Powered by coffee, tea and Diet Coke, they begin their daily pledge of allegiance, just as their counterparts do in Bentonville, Ark., home of Wal-Mart Stores, which owns 38 percent of Seiyu. 
 "Give me an S!" a Japanese boss shouts.
 "S!" comes the reply. 
 And so on, until the group spells "S-E-I-Y-U." 
 "Who's No. 1?" he asks. 
 "Customers!" they reply, punching the air with their fists. 
 The routine is one of the small ways in which Wal-Mart is revamping the struggling Seiyu, Japan's fourth-largest retailer. Unlike Toys "R" Us, Costco and other outside rivals that opened their own stores here, Wal-Mart has spent $513 million for a chunk of Seiyu, whose name still adorns its 400 stores. 
 The logic is simple: By working through a local partner, Wal-Mart is hoping that it can better navigate Japan's serpentine and costly network of suppliers, which has long frustrated other foreign investors. The company also avoids having to build stores and can take advantage of Seiyu's well-recognized brand.
 But as it dips its toes into Japan, the world's second-largest economy, mighty Wal-Mart is confronting something it seldom encounters: skeptics who doubt that it can succeed. The retail market here is dominated by powerful manufacturers and wholesalers whose high prices have made the country an inhospitable place for foreign discounters. And Japanese consumers are famously finicky -- as other American retailers who have simply imported goods with little regard for local tastes have learned the hard way. 
 Further complicating matters, Wal-Mart must repair a chain whose sales peaked a decade ago. Seiyu, which also sells housewares, appliances and general merchandise, has a debt-to-capital ratio that is more than twice the industry average in Japan. In the half-year that ended in August, the retailer lost 8.4 billion yen ($77 million) as sales slipped 3.9 percent from the period a year earlier. The company expects to lose 10 billion yen for the full year.
 To Wal-Mart, though, Seiyu is a risk worth taking. Japan's dense supplier network and expensive labor and land give the American discounter a chance to cut costs and bolster profitability. The company's "everyday low prices" may also prove a hit with the increasingly bargain-conscious Japanese consumer, analysts said. 
 "WAL-MART has a lot of work to do, but their timing to be in Japan is really good," said Hidehiko Aoki, a retail analyst at Goldman Sachs in Tokyo. "They can bring a new retail model to Japan."
 To that end, Wal-Mart has unveiled a five-year plan to reduce the hours worked by full-time staff members by about 40 percent, partly through early retirement and by increasing the percentage of part-time workers to 85 percent from 70 percent. The company is computerizing operations, remodeling aging stores and trying to do what it has done so effectively in the United States: persuade manufacturers and wholesalers to cut prices so Seiyu can pass along the savings to consumers.
 If all goes well, Wal-Mart can use its option to raise its share in Seiyu to 50 percent by 2005 and to 66.7 percent two years after that, giving it further management control. It is then, analysts say, that Wal-Mart will consider opening stores under its own name.
 For Wal-Mart to get that far, the company will have to do to retailing what Carlos Ghosn, the president of Nissan Motor, did to Japan's automobile industry: introduce Western-style pricing and smash entrenched and often costly corporate relationships.
 Though Mr. Ghosn has been very much in the spotlight, Wal-Mart appears content to work in the shadows. In Seiyu's stores, few overt signs of the discount giant's presence can be found. Since raising its stake in Seiyu to 38 percent in December 2002, Wal-Mart has spent most of its time centralizing the retailer's operations. The changes include giving new product scanners to aisle clerks and creating databases that provide up-to-the-minute information on sales, inventory and prices.
 The company is also teaching Seiyu's employees to sell the Wal-Mart way. That means using data to analyze sales, not just following store managers' hunches. To reinforce the lesson, Wal-Mart is putting store managers through weeklong training sessions and has flown hundreds of Seiyu workers to Arkansas.
 "Japanese might think what we're doing is very tough, but they have to realize that this is the world standard," said Seiyu's chief executive, Masao Kiuchi, who, like many Wal-Mart managers, arrived at the morning meeting in an informal open shirt and no jacket.
 After Mr. Kiuchi wrapped up the meeting, dozens of managers headed back to their desks to pore over spreadsheets on their laptop computers. Seiyu pools data from all of its stores so that everyone from clerks to suppliers can see what is on the shelves, what is selling and when.
 The data also makes it easier for Seiyu to order only what it needs and to pool those orders for volume discounts. Suppliers, too, can anticipate what Seiyu wants, planning their production and shipments accordingly and cutting the prices they charge. Wal-Mart hopes to use the savings to reduce Seiyu's retail prices.
 "Wal-Mart has to change the system from the inside out," said Seth Sulkin, president of Pacifica Malls K.K., which develops shopping centers in Japan. Mr. Sulkin said Wal-Mart had made the right decision to enter Japan through Seiyu because only the biggest Japanese stores have leverage with manufacturers. "If Wal-Mart did it themselves," he said, "they'd get nowhere."
 While the company is squeezing savings out of Seiyu's operations, it is also refurbishing the chain's older stores. Wal-Mart chose the three-story Futamatagawa store outside Yokohama as a test case, spending roughly $7 million to renovate the building. The entire first floor has been devoted to food; clothing and household goods have been moved upstairs. The aisles have been widened to allow two carts to pass, and a deli counter with prepared foods is now open until 11 p.m.
 Bowing to local tastes, Wal-Mart has also installed a small fish market, where workers slice slabs of tuna for customers. Nearby, baskets of vegetables and fruit sit on casters so workers can roll them into and out of the storeroom instead of unloading boxes in the aisles.
 The new layout appears to be a hit with customers. Food sales and traffic have risen 50 percent since the store was remodeled in June, taking business from threemajor supermarkets nearby.
 Still, Wal-Mart has learned that the Japanese, like consumers elsewhere, are creatures of habit. The company had stopped stuffing mailboxes with circulars to publicize twice-a-week sales. Wal-Mart argued that because its prices were already the lowest every day, there was no need to have special sales.
 But homemakers are addicted to circulars, using them to dart from store to store in search of deals. So, after some complaints, the circulars returned, to the relief of customers. "I only come here once a week," said Hisako Ito, a homemaker who heads to neighboring stores for other bargains. "I still go to cheaper places by car to get meat and other things."
 More and more shoppers, though, seem to be warming up to the Wal-Mart-style bulk discounts, which are available every day. Soda is a case in point. One aisle in the Seiyu store is now a wall of Coke and Diet Coke, stacked with cans, six-packs and cases. All cans are 198 yen each, or about 15 percent below the suggested retail price. Soda sales have tripled since the discounts were introduced.
 Other Wal-Mart tactics are translating well, even if the corporate lingo isn't. Few shoppers recognized the word "Rollback" -- Wal-Mart's jargon for featured discounts. But big signs nearby were unmistakable: cans of Campbell's Soup were marked down 21 percent, to 195 yen ($1.75), with the prices posted in big letters.
 "Customers don't know the name 'Rollback,' but they know that prices are being discounted," said Kazuo Funakoshi, 49, the store manager.
 Mr. Funakoshi, acknowledging that shoppers in Japan, like those in the United States, fret about a flood of cheap imports, said that less than 1 percent of the 50,000 products in his store were imported from Wal-Mart's network. And those that were on display were getting a mixed welcome.
 Some of the 46-ounce cans of grapefruit juice being sold under the "Great Value" name, for example, were dented and had labels ripped, a no-no in Japan, where presentation counts for a lot. The cans were also too big for most Japanese refrigerators, so shoppers were invited to buy clear thermoses, too. One customer, typical of the finicky, grumbled that she didn't "trust the English label."
 SATISFYING local tastes is just one hurdle. While mothers with children strolled through the aisles, several men in blue suits -- managers from rival stores, Mr. Funakoshi said -- were snapping pictures of the store with their camera phones. 
 The corporate spies are symbolic of Japan's competitive retail market and the battle that Wal-Mart faces with rivals that have tried to replicate its no-frills pitch. Japan's two largest chains, Ito-Yokado and Aeon, have also had some success using their size to pressure suppliers to cut their prices.
 Wal-Mart executives are aware of the challenge from incumbents like Aeon, whose sales are three times larger than Seiyu's. But they say that Japanese rivals cannot mimic the low-cost ethic that pervades Wal-Mart's ranks. 
 The company has dispatched 50 managers from Bentonville to teach Seiyu managers the Wal-Mart way. Workers also get a heavy dose of "culture training" to teach them to be more outspoken, upbeat and goal-oriented. During weeklong sessions, managers were forced to dance in front of the class if they broke the rules -- showing up late, for example, or forgetting to turn off cellphone ringers. The tactics apparently helped the normally wary Japanese relax, and several students in one session cried when their trainers returned to the United States.
 The Japanese, though, have a tough time adapting to the Wal-Mart practice of continually praising co-workers. Backslapping compliments are rare in a country where workers are taught to be humble and bosses often command respect through intimidation. 
 At the morning meeting, one sales manager reported brisk sales of Beaujolais nouveau and received a hearty round of applause. Minutes later, smaller groups of Japanese sat in near silence as their bosses held sway. 
 Like workers at most Japanese companies, Seiyu employees also have difficulty questioning their bosses, particularly foreign managers who often speak through translators. "People cannot even say what they want to their supervisor, let alone jump ahead to the next manager," said Tamae Kobayashi, who is in charge of the human resources group that trains Seiyu employees. Wal-Mart appears confident, though, that the Japanese workers are getting its message.
 "Once they understand what you want them to do, you get follow-through," said Jeff McAllister, Wal-Mart's chief operating officer in Japan.
 Mr. McAllister said the company was "on plan" in Japan. But Machiko Amano, a credit analyst at Standard & Poor's in Tokyo, said that even Wal-Mart might not be able to save Seiyu from "stagnant consumption, severe competition and shortened product cycles." 
 Wal-Mart acknowledges that such threats exist, but it says its decision to enter Japan through a local partner is the right one, even if it requires more subtlety and patience than simply using its huge size and muscle to go it alone. 
 "People ask when we'll be done," Mr. McAllister said. "But it's going to take hundreds of little things."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kazuo Funakoshi, manager of the Seiyu store in Futamatagawa, Japan, with Hiromi Kinoshita, a sales clerk. Wal-Mart is using the store to try out changes to the chain. (Photo by Fuminori Sato for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Wal-Mart's signature "Rollback" signs, left, haven't meant much to Japanese shopping at Seiyu stores, although shoppers have been attracted to the boldly marked price reductions. Masao Kiuchi, above, is Seiyu's chief executive. (Photo by Fuminori Sato for The New York Times); (Photo by Reuters)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (73%); BRANDING (72%); WHOLESALERS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); BRAND EQUITY (64%) Retail Stores and Trade; Discount Selling; Foreign Investments; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); TOYS 'R' US INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC (WMT) ; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Seiyu Ltd

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (55%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (55%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



384 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/2004 Chevrolet Malibu; 
G.M. Refines Its Recipe For a White-Bread Car

BYLINE:  By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
IF you are old enough, you may have heard this before: General Motors wants to be the leader in midsize family cars.
 Indeed, if your memory reaches back to the 1960's and 70's, you may recall how G.M. dominated the medium-size market. Back then, the Chevrolet Malibu, and the larger Impala, were the rocks on which G.M. built a seemingly impenetrable fortress. 
 While the company continues to sell a lot of mainstream cars, its dominance faded long ago. Today's midsize leader is the Toyota Camry, America's best-selling car in five of the last six years and perhaps the best modern example of the value-quality ideal that Chevrolet once represented.
Smooth, refined and reliable, the Camry is the target at which many companies aim. And G.M. did the same when it undertook a thorough redesign of the Malibu for 2004. 
The new car comes well-armed for the midsize gunfight. With underpinnings -- known in the industry as a platform -- that originated in Europe with the Saab 9-3 and Opel Vectra, the Malibu has more room, more safety equipment and significantly better handling, along with a more comfortable ride, than the car it replaces.
Chevrolet hopes that package -- and distinctive features like the capability of starting the car by remote control -- will let the Malibu tackle the leader of the pack.
The Malibu's introduction also marks a shift for G.M., which is turning its eye back toward the passenger cars that languished while it concentrated on more profitable pickups and S.U.V.'s.
The bread-and-butter midsize car segment cannot be ignored, since it accounts for 20 percent of vehicle sales. Accordingly, over the next three years G.M. says it will renew its entire lineup of midsize cars. Although the 2004 Pontiac Grand Prix was the first of this new generation, that car remains on an old platform with a familiar drivetrain. The front-drive Malibu is built on G.M.'s new Epsilon structure, which will be used by 8 nameplates for at least 14 models -- more than any other G.M. platform.
The midsize class is important, but it is not a place where buyers are titillated with trendy styling. That is just fine with the many mainstream buyers who don't want their cars to shout, "Hey, look at me." 
"The segment is generic and bland," said Jeff Schuster, director of North American forecasting for J.D. Power & Associates, the big market-research firm. "It fits in. It is not on the fringe of design, and the styling is consistent with the mainstream buyer."
These are customers who, G.M. says, keep their cars for six or seven years; they want classic, timeless design, not something flashy that might soon look dated. So Chevy has taken the bland, blend-in approach that has worked well for the leading cars in this segment, the Camry and Honda Accord. (Still, some midsize cars with more style, like the Nissan Altima and Volkswagen Passat, have also done well.)
The last-generation Malibu was even blander, and that car will continue to provoke yawns under a new name, the Chevrolet Classic. But it will not be sold in the retail market, only to fleet buyers. If you really must drive one, car rental agencies can get you a key.
G.M. hopes that by keeping the new Malibu out of rental fleets, which pour large numbers of low-price used cars into the market, it will improve the car's resale value and keep it from acquiring the rental-car image that has saddled many of G.M.'s recent midsize sedans.
Chevrolet also hopes a less-flashy window sticker will serve the Malibu well. Prices start at $18,995 for the base (but well equipped) four-cylinder model. The top-of-the-line LT is $23,495. My test car, an LT with $2,225 in options (including XM satellite radio, OnStar concierge service, power sunroof and 6-disk CD player) came to $25,720. Camry prices approach $30,000.
Of course, both cars often come with sales incentives, although Chevy's tend to be more generous. G.M. is already offering a $1,000 nationwide rebate (or discount financing) on the 2004 Malibu. 
The Malibu has some advantages for short people. The steering wheel both telescopes and tilts on the midtrim LS version (the Camry's only tilts), and power-adjustable pedals are standard. (They are a $120 option on the Camry.)
The Malibu has gained more room in the rear for legs, shoulders and hips. But the trunk has shrunk to 15.4 cubic feet, from 17.3. (The Camry has 16.7.)
The interior is quite an upgrade from the old model, with richer upholstery and better trim, although the plastic on the dashboard looks rather, well, plasticky.
There is more interior flexibility with a 60/40 folding rear seat and a front passenger seat that folds flat to carry items up to 9 feet long.
Car shoppers in extreme climates are likely to be attracted by the Malibu's remote starting feature. This lets the driver pre-heat or pre-cool the car before starting out. The car be started from as far as 200 feet away -- or more, since I fired up the engine from the 29th floor of our high-rise condo. Because the remote starter is integrated with the vehicle's security system, the car cannot be driven away unless the key is in the ignition switch. This nifty feature is standard on the LT and is a $150 option on the base Malibu and the LS. 
On drives in the Virginia countryside and on Cleveland's rough-rider city streets, the Malibu impressed me as being a well-rounded package in terms of ride, handling and utility.
Power for the base Malibu comes from the 2.2-liter Ecotec engine, which is pleasingly smooth for a four-cylinder engine. This twin-cam engine produces 145 horsepower.
The 3.5-liter V-6 that comes in the LS and LT is an improved version of the 3.4-liter engine familiar to drivers of G.M. minivans. Its roots go back to the 2.8-liter V-6 of the 1980 Chevy Citation. 
This engine, mated to the four-speed automatic transmission, results in a seamless and perceptive powertrain. If you give the gas pedal a slight push, the car seems to figure out quickly whether to downshift or to hold a gear for faster acceleration. 
Mileage figures for both engines are impressive -- from 23 m.p.g. city, 32 highway with the V-6 to 24/34 with the 4 -- and beat the Camry.
While it is natural to associate more power with a sportier vehicle, the lighter four-cylinder model felt quicker to respond on twisting rural Virginia roads. The V-6 shines as a highway cruiser.
Equipped either way, the Malibu corners well without the leaden, nose-heavy feeling of many front-wheel drive cars. In hard cornering, body lean is reasonable.
The Malibu feels remarkably solid and quiver-resistant even on washboard roads and other broken surfaces. G.M. engineers say that solidity will help to prevent the squeaks and rattles that tend to show up over the years, though only time will tell.
In contrast to its European cousins from Opel and Saab, the Malibu had its suspension tuned to provide a more comfortable ride on deteriorating American roads. Still the suspension manages to provide comfort without wallowing or floating. Body motions are more tautly controlled than I remember those on the Camry to be. While the electric steering is not as crisp and connected-feeling as the steering systems in the best European sedans, it is predictable and generally unobjectionable.
Of course, the driving experience is one thing, but many Camry buyers are attracted by Toyota's reputation for quality. It may surprise many people that the 2003 Malibu actually scored higher than the Camry and the Accord in this year's J.D. Power Initial Quality Study, which measures the number of problems in the first 90 days of ownership.
While G.M. hopes to capitalize on the strong showing of the previous model, the new car is actually made in a different plant. The last Malibu rolled out of a factory in Lansing, Mich., but the new car is being built in Kansas City, Kan.
But longer-term quality is still a question mark. On the 2003 J.D. Power Vehicle Dependability Study, which measures the durability of three-year-old vehicles, the 2000 Malibu had 33 percent more problems than the Camry.
"They have made dramatic improvements in Malibu," said Brian Walters, senior director for vehicle research at J.D. Power. "The reality is that they are still not as good as the likes of Toyota and Honda. They are improving, though. What G.M. is battling now is perception, and a brand image can't be turned around overnight."

INSIDE TRACK: Malibu turns a page, even if it won't turn many heads.

GRAPHIC: Photos: G.M. has markedly improved the look and feel of the Malibu's interior. (pg. 4); (pg. 1) Chart: "Chevy Takes On Camry" lists features and specifications for selected Chevys and Toyotas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MARKET SIZE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (60%) Automobiles; Reviews 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: Cheryl Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



385 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHELSEA; 
The Lease Is Mightier Than the Sword

BYLINE:  By STEVE KURUTZ

 BODY:
Fleetness of foot. Quiet strength under duress. Persistence in the face of insurmountable odds. These are all fine qualities in a fencer. These are not necessarily fine qualities in a fencing school, however, as students at Metropolis Fencing learned when the organization was abruptly closed last week. 
 The 75-year-old club, which occupied the ground floor of a building on West 26th Street near the Avenue of the Americas, was taken over by Lee Roy Longenbach, his wife, Georgine Fortunak, and their son, Zaddick Longenbach, in 1994. The son is a fencer of international reputation (he won a bronze medal in the 1999 Pan American games) and served as an instructor at the club. 
 Metropolis was, according to the elder Mr. Longenbach, "the only egalitarian fencing club in the city," with a low charge for lessons ($10) and a walk-in policy. It has been on 26th Street since July 2001.
But according to Mark Alonso, an attorney for landlord Muriel Block, the tenants have not paid the $27,000 monthly rent for the prime space since January. Then, after a protracted court battle, they were evicted on Dec. 4 -- news that came as a surprise to most members.
"The owners didn't say anything about this," said Javier Berzol, who stopped by the club the other day to clear out his locker, which still contained his epee and uniform. "I got an e-mail from another fencer that said: 'Don't come tomorrow. It's closed."' 
Indeed, the large, bright room had the telltale "frozen in time" look of a place that had been hastily departed: old sneakers still poked from metal lockers, a barrel of foils stood by the door, and in the corner, dirty laundry was piled on a washing machine. 
Mr. Longenbach and Ms. Fortunak were still soliciting new memberships just a few weeks ago. Mr. Berzol, for example, recently paid for a monthly membership, and the owners suggested he buy a yearly one. "They could have at least told me there was a possibility the club might close," he said.
In response, Ms. Fortunak said she had told several people the club was having problems, but hoped the situation could be worked through. All other questions regarding the club's eviction were referred to the club's lawyer, Hyman Silverglad. 
Mr. Silverglad explained that the rent was simply too great given the relatively small economic return of a fencing club. The landlord told the owners they could supplement their income by renting the space for events like bar mitzvahs, Mr. Silverglad said, but, in Mr. Alonso's view, the lease meant that only fencing-related events were allowed. 
To generate more income, the club installed a small concession that sold items like Gatorade and also began selling various antiques and collectibles, many of them fencing-related, but, Mr. Silverglad said, "It became an exercise in futility to make it profitable."
"These were not business people," he said. "They simply loved the sport."
Regardless, the Metropolis is currently homeless. As Mr. Berzol cleared his locker, Charisse Hiigel and her 12-year-old daughter, Isabella, arrived for Isabella's weekly lesson. When told the club had been evicted, the daughter looked flummoxed. "I'm shocked," she said. "We're both shocked," her mother said. STEVE KURUTZ

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two fencers get the bad news.; Metropolis Fencing, suddenly closed, has the look of a hasty departure. (Photographs by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVICTION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (70%); LAWYERS (69%) Fencing (Sport); Evictions

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolis Fencing

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%)

PERSON: Muriel Block; Georgine Fortunak; Lee Roy Longenbach; Zadick Longenbach; Steve Kurutz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



386 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2122 words

HEADLINE: War and Never Having To Say You're Sorry 

BYLINE:  By SAMANTHA POWER; Samantha Power's book, 'A Problem From Hell: America and the Age of Genocide," won the Pulitzer Prize in general nonfiction this year.

 BODY:
SOMETIME in the mid-1960's, the Vietnam War became known as "McNamara's War." In the seven years Robert S. McNamara served as Secretary of Defense for Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon. B. Johnson, the United States commitment in Vietnam soared -- in a soothingly gradual fashion -- from fewer than a thousand Americans to just under half a million. Mr. McNamara, in turn, went from being heralded as a whiz kid to being hounded as a war monger. In 1965, a Quaker protester set himself on fire below Mr. McNamara's Pentagon office window. In 1967, antiwar activists tried to burn down the his vacation home in Aspen, Colo. And in 1972, an artist who spotted him on a ferry tried to heave him into the Atlantic Ocean. 
 A quarter of a century later, Mr. McNamara broke his silence, publishing "In Retrospect," his best-selling memoir. He asked how he and his fellow leaders could have pushed for a war he at last acknowledged was "wrong, terribly wrong." But after the deaths of three million Vietnamese and more than 58,000 Americans, many saw Mr. McNamara's public reckoning as, at best, incommensurate with the carnage and at worst, dishonest and self-serving. In a stinging editorial in 1995, The New York Times dismissed his "prime-time apology and stale tears, three decades late," contrasting the fates of the dead with that of Mr. McNamara, who, despite his torment, "got a sinecure at the World Bank and summers at the Vineyard." 
 The debate over Vietnam and the debate over Robert McNamara -- debates that overlap, but that over the years have grown distinct -- refuse to subside, partly because Mr. McNamara, now 87, refuses to go away. In "The Fog of War: Eleven Lessons From the Life of Robert S. McNamara," opening Friday, Errol Morris, the ingenious Cambridge-based director of such documentaries as "The Thin Blue Line" and "Mr. Death," has given Mr. McNamara a big-screen chance to reflect upon a career of watching fallible human beings like himself make decisions that imperil or extinguish human lives.
While Mr. McNamara uses the film to propagate the "lessons" of his six decades in public life, Mr. Morris has another agenda: to raise questions that are moral, timeless and rarely broached with such subtlety. How do decent men commit or abet evil acts? And once they have done so, how should they interact with their victims, live with their consciences and pass along their insights? It is the indefatigable relevance of these questions that keep Americans at once enthralled and repelled by Robert S. McNamara. And it is the long-standing aversion of American decision-makers to address past mistakes that has helped undermine the American standing around the world and has hindered our ability to learn from history.
Mr. Morris is a first-class investigator, and he has hunted down fresh and provocative material, on subjects like the firebombing of the Japanese in World War II and Kennedy's intentions regarding Vietnam. He has elicited from Mr. McNamara a number of startling admissions. And he has released the film at a time when war and quagmire are very much on the mind of Americans. Revisiting Vietnam and the images of sprightly young G.I.'s so eager to serve, one is reminded how soldiers can be led astray by reckless ideology, shoddy intelligence and liberal hubris; how small, sequential decisions necessitate and compound one another; and how our faith in our own good intentions and our ignorance of local culture can undermine our objectives. (Among the 11 lessons Mr. Morris gleans from Mr. McNamara, Lesson No. 1 is "empathize with the enemy.")
But Mr. Morris is less interested in policy than in metaphysics. In a recent interview in New York, where he was promoting the film, he said he first became interested in Mr. McNamara because of an "endless fascination" with the extent to which "people who engage in evil believe in some real sense that they are doing good." Mr. Morris seems reflexively drawn to the gray zones of human morality. If "real Iagos" permeated the planet, the filmmaker rightly notes, life would be simpler, and in the end, probably safer. But the story gets more complicated when a man like Robert McNamara -- who is not only debonair, but introspective and self-critical -- comes along. "If evil is somewhat more ineluctable, it also becomes somewhat more problematic," Mr. Morris observes. "What is it? Where is it? Is it in some of us? Is it in all of us?"
And under what circumstances, he might have added, can we rationalize it? The most stirring scenes in "The Fog of War" surround America's firebombing of 67 Japanese cities in World War II, during which time Mr. McNamara was working under Gen. Curtis LeMay of the Air Force. Mr. Morris unearthed spine-curdling government reports showing the raw calculus undertaken to speed America's victory. "In order to do good," Mr. McNamara says, articulating the film's ninth lesson, "recognize that at times you will have to engage in evil." In a single bombing raid, he recalls, "We burned to death 100,000 Japanese civilians in Tokyo -- men, women and children." Some 900,000 Japanese civilians were killed overall. Was he aware this would happen? "Well, I was part of a mechanism that in a sense recommended it," Mr. McNamara tells Mr. Morris. "Lemay said, 'If we'd lost the war, we'd all have been prosecuted as war criminals.' And I think he's right. He -- and I'd say I -- were behaving as war criminals." He asks, "What makes it immoral if you lose and not immoral if you win?" The answer, of course, is that war's winners write the history books, and, if they can help it, they avoid legal accountability.
When it came to the Vietnam War, Mr. McNamara was an early advocate of escalation but came to realize the flaws in the American approach earlier than many of his colleagues. Yet in public, he continuedto defend the war. And even after he was forced out by President Johnson in 1967, he refused to air his criticisms, though the war raged on for another eight long years.
Today he declines comment on Iraq out of the same sense of bureaucratic loyalty. To the suggestion that dissent is often the highest form of loyalty, he responds, "I think it's irresponsible for an ex-secretary of defense to comment, particularly if the comments are critical -- about a president who is in the midst of a war with tens of thousands of American lives at risk, and is dealing with very, very delicate issues and relationships with other nations and with the U.N., and therefore I haven't and I'm not going to."
But Mr. McNamara's views can be inferred from the film. "What makes us omniscient," he asks, rhetorically. "Have we a record of omniscience?" He concludes, "If we can't persuade nations with comparable values of the merits of our case, we better re-examine our reasoning." 
Re-examining our reasoning is not something that has come naturally to American statesmen. In fact, Mr. McNamara is one of very few senior American government officials ever to admit major error without being forced to do so. In an interview last month, I asked him why. "People don't want to admit they made mistakes," he said. "This is true of the Catholic Church, it's true of companies, it's true of nongovernmental organizations and it's certainly true of political bodies. My rule has been to surface the tough problems. It's very unpleasant to argue with people you admire and associate with. But you have to force debate." 
BY now, Mr. McNamara has learned how to speak about the trauma in his past in much the same way one learns to speak of the death of a loved one: by rote. In our conversation, he often repeated verbatim what he had said on camera. If a question probed tender territory, he pivoted, transitioning skillfully to one of his policy causes, like nuclear nonproliferation or the International Criminal Court. But despite all his best efforts, Mr. McNamara still broke down several times during the filming of "The Fog of War" -- "a sign of weakness," he told me, embarrassed. On camera, he remains stoic as he says that his wife and son got ulcers when he was secretary of defense, and that his wife, who died in 1981, "may even ultimately have died from the stress." Mr. McNamara's emotions get the better of him when he goes on to say something he must know to be untrue. "But," he insists, waving his pen for emphasis, "they were some of the best years of our lives and" -- here the tears start -- "all members of my family benefited from it." He quickly masters the lump in his throat, and proclaims, unconvincingly: "It was terrific." In our interview, Mr. McNamara's eyes filled with tears at precisely the same moment. Though some politicians are known to muster tears as a ploy for sympathy, in the case of Mr. McNamara, who is famously controlling, they seemed anything but calculated; rather, they offered evidence that his public poise is outmatched by his personal demons. 
Remarkably, what seems to grate at people most about Mr. McNamara these days is less his role in shaping a disastrous Vietnam policy than what many take to be his public martyrdom. While it is true that his reckoning is partial and unsatisfying, and while it is true that the book did help launch him back into the limelight, it is also true that he had a lot to lose by awakening the ghosts of Vietnam. By choosing to excavate the past, he has exposed himself to ridicule, resuscitated his lowest moments in public life and let an emotional genie out of the bottle. And since Mr. McNamara seems to have generated more scorn than those who never acknowledged error -- e.g., Dean Rusk, Henry Kissinger, and three American presidents -- it is unlikely that other officials will be eager to follow his example. 
In the absence of full-fledged Congressional investigations, American policymakers rarely look back. They are bound by continuity and fealty across administrations and generations. With the proliferation of class-action suits and the advent of global courtrooms, American officials are now explicitly counseled to avoid public reckoning, for fear of creating legal liability (or constraining their ability to do it all over again, when it suits them). Whether regarding the Vietnam War, America's cold war assassinations or our misguided former alliance with Saddam Hussein, American officials keep their eyes fixed on the future. They rarely admit responsibility for failure, for costly meddling or for large-scale human suffering. They resist debate -- internally or publicly -- on how good intentions went astray. And they most certainly don't apologize to those harmed. 
On those the rare occasions when American officials have expressed remorse for previous policies, they have tended to do so offhandedly. And while on these shores, such utterances were ignored or derided as insincere, in the countries grievously affected, many victims and survivors welcomed the gesture with surprising grace.
In keeping with tradition, Mr. McNamara has never apologized to the Vietnamese or the American people for the Vietnam War. But he has broken with house rules by expressing regret for mistaken policy choices. "I'm very proud of my accomplishments," he says in the film. "I'm very sorry that in the course of accomplishing something I made errors." 
Errol Morris says Mr. McNamara's failure to apologize used to trouble him. But after taping 23 hours of interviews with him, and sharing many more meals and phone calls, the discomfort subsided. In truth, Mr. Morris says, he has come to like Robert McNamara, and to understand why so many of the tirades against him find fault with a "mea culpa" that he never issued. "An apology empowers us," Mr. Morris said, during our interview. "The person says, 'I'm very, very, very sorry,' and we can say, 'I accept your apology,' or we can say, 'Sorry, but saying sorry is not enough.' People so strongly wanted to say, 'I do not forgive you for what you've done' that they imagined an apology that didn't exist." 
Of course, compiling the lessons of history hardly guarantees that they will be applied. Soon after Donald Rumsfeld assumed the job of secretary of defense in 2000, he actually took the unusual step of circulating a handout that distilled his 40 years of service. Mr. Rumsfeld's lessons were not dissimilar from those Mr. Morris elicited from Mr. McNamara. They include: 
"It is easier to get into something than to get out of it." 
"Don't divide the world into 'them' and 'us.' " 
"Visit with your predecessors from previous administrations . . . Try to make original mistakes, rather than needlessly repeating theirs." 
The lessons, known as "Rumsfeld's Rules," were posted on the Pentagon Web site when Mr. Rumsfeld took office. They have since been removed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert S. McNamara in a new documentary, "The Fog of War." (Photo by Claire Folger.)(pg. 1); Former Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara discussing the Vietnam war during a news conference. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. 33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR (90%); FIRES (75%); BURN INJURIES (75%); FILM (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); FILM DIRECTORS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Motion Pictures; Vietnam War 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (90%) Robert S Mcnamara; Samantha Power; Errol Morris

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%) UNITED STATES (96%); VIET NAM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



387 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Azie Taylor Morton, 67, U.S. Treasurer Under Carter 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Dec. 13 

 BODY:
Azie Taylor Morton, the only African-American to serve as United States treasurer, died here on Dec. 7. She was 67.
 Ms. 
Morton died at an Austin hospital after suffering a stroke at her home in Bastrop, said State Representative Dawnna Dukes, a longtime family friend. 
 Ms. Morton was appointed treasurer in 1977 by President Jimmy Carter and served until 1981. The treasurer reports to the secretary of the treasury, the principal economic adviser to the president.
Ms. Morton served on President John F. Kennedy's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity and was an observer for presidential elections in Haiti, Senegal and the Dominican Republic.
She graduated from Huston-Tillotson College in Austin in 1956 with a bachelor's degree in commercial education. Her first job after college was teaching delinquent students.
Ms. Morton's husband, James Morton, died in January. She is survived by two daughters, Virgie Floyd and Stacey Hurst, both of Austin, as well as grandchildren and great-grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); APPOINTMENTS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); STROKES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (67%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); SENEGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



388 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: EUROPEAN UNION CAN'T REACH DEAL ON CONSTITUTION 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Dec. 13 

 BODY:
The leaders of 25 current and future members of the European Union failed to reach agreement on Saturday on a draft constitution, stumbling on a problem familiar to Americans: how to apportion power among large and small states.
 At issue was a proposal to discard a voting system agreed upon three years ago that gave Spain, a member of the union, and Poland, which joins next year, almost as much voting weight each as Germany, which has more than twice the population of either. Spain and Poland insisted on retaining the expanded rights. 
 Germany's chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, called the summit meeting "largely a failure," and said, "We don't have a consensus on a constitution here because one or another country put the European ideal behind national interest." 
Officially, the leaders said they would meet to try again next year. But the failure touched off bitter recriminations that underscored differences between current and soon-to-be members of the union. The war in Iraq also played a part: the deep divisions in "old" and "new" Europe over whether to go along with the United States' military action contributed to the wedges driving the leaders apart.
France's president, Jacques Chirac, said the failure galvanized his interest in creating a smaller union in the form of a "pioneer group" -- perhaps of the union's six founding countries, but open to others. He framed it as something that would accelerate integration. "It would be a motor that would set an example," he said at a news conference after the talks. "It would allow Europe to go faster, better."
But others read it as a move toward scaling back Europe's unification. Mr. Schroder, acknowledging the temptation to do so, said, "We will work that it not happen." 
Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, chairman of the talks, agreed. "I am not a partisan of the idea of six countries," he said.
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who had sought unsuccessfully to soften the Spanish and Polish positions, said, "It is in my view entirely sensible that we take the time to get it right." He added, "To look at this in sort of apocalyptic terms is, I think, rather misguided." 
Poland's prime minister, Leszek Miller, left Brussels and was expected to call a cabinet meeting to discuss the outcome, Polish diplomats said. 
The meeting was not without its successes. On Friday, the leaders took a first important step toward striking a deal on the constitution's draft text, the subject of almost two years of discussion, when they agreed unanimously to a common defense policy that included planning abilities independent of NATO.
The constitution is considered crucial in light of the coming enlargement, by which the union, which began as a customs union of Germany, France, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, will become a 25-member club, bringing into its embrace many former East Bloc states, including Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovenia.
"The striking thing is that 95 percent of the issues are largely resolved," said Kevin Featherstone of the European Institute at the London School of Economics.
He said it was the very fact that agreements had been reached in most areas that had narrowed the room for the usual horse trading that lies at the heart of European compromises. With little else to decide, the voting rights issue became "crystal clear."
But he also said the stewardship of the talks might have contributed to the failure. "Berlusconi has this putting-your-foot-in-it tendency," he said.
As with the American leadership in Philadelphia in the 1780's, Europe's leaders are acting because they recognize that the challenges facing an enlarged union require more efficient government structures. Recent moves, including the introduction of the euro and the creation of a central bank, have fueled the drive beyond simple economic integration toward common policies in defense and foreign affairs.
The analogy with the United States, which moved in the 1780's from a confederation to a stronger national government under the Constitution, has not escaped the Europeans. When Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the former French president and chairman of the convention that framed the draft constitution, left for vacation last summer, he took along a copy of David McCullough's best-selling biography of John Adams, the author of the Massachusetts Constitution, the oldest such text still in use.
Mr. McCullough said by phone from his home in Massachusetts that in Philadelphia, "all the small states were afraid of the large states; they feared they would take the ball and run with it." To provide equal weight in the councils of power, the founding fathers created the Senate, where all states are equally represented. "They called it the balancing wheel," he said.
Europe's leaders toyed in the past with the idea of transforming the Council of Europe into a kind of senate. But the idea was discarded in favor of a voting system agreed upon three years ago in Nice, France, that gave mid-sized countries like Poland and Spain almost as many votes each in the European Council as heavyweight Germany.
Poland and Spain are now relatively isolated, because the Nice system has been jettisoned in favor of an arrangement known as the double majority, which seeks to assure the rights of smaller states by defining a voting majority as at least half of the member states representing at least 60 percent of the total population.
Poland's foreign minister, Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz, had dug in his heels on Saturday morning. "If it is not possible to agree on the change today we shall wait," he said before the day's talks began.
Large countries like France, Germany and Britain, which embraced the double majority because of a worry about the risk of giving too much voting power to the smaller states, have also built measures into the constitution that would assure their continued influence.
Largely at British insistence, the states will retain veto rights over fiscal matters, leaving the door open to divisive issues like one that erupted recently over decisions by France and Germany, two of the largest nations, to run budget deficits that exceed limits governing the euro.
Veto rights will also be kept in matters of foreign and defense policy and changes to European treaties.
For the moment, other differences appear to have been overshadowed by the issue of voting weights. Some countries, including Poland, have in the past insisted that the preamble of the constitution evoke Europe's Christian heritage. The draft text refers to Europe's "cultural, religious and humanist heritages."
Mr. Featherstone, of the European Institute, said there was not a sense of immediate crisis if the states failed, "but there is a climate of ideas across Europe that something must be done." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); IRAQ WAR (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Constitutions

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) European Union

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (79%); JACQUES CHIRAC (69%); TONY BLAIR (50%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%) John Tagliabue; Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; Jacques (Pres) Chirac; Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) POLAND (95%); EUROPE (95%); SPAIN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (92%); ITALY (79%); IRAQ (79%) Europe; Germany; Spain; Poland; France; Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



389 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: LOOKING SOUTH; 
With Endorsement, Gephardt Turns Focus to South Carolina

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS; Jodi Wilgoren contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: SPARTANBURG, S.C., Dec. 13 

 BODY:
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri took a celebratory jaunt across this state on Saturday, showing off an important endorsement and a campaign increasingly determined to build momentum beyond the state of Iowa.
 Mr. Gephardt's aides say he must win Iowa to have any hope of capturing the Democratic presidential nomination, and on Saturday he continued to pound away at his chief rival in that state, Howard Dean. But in recent months, he has also been carefully cultivating support elsewhere. Nowhere are those efforts more visible than in South Carolina, which will be the first Southern state to hold a primary next year. 
 This month, Mr. Gephardt started running two television advertisements here, his first outside of Iowa and New Hampshire. On Wednesday, he garnered the endorsement of Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina. Mr. Clyburn, a senior member of the Congressional Black Caucus and an influential political figure here, was courted by all nine Democratic candidates. 
African-Americans are expected to account for about half of the registered voters in the primary here, and Mr. Clyburn has been viewed as a critical ally in rallying those votes. He and Mr. Gephardt stood side by side on Saturday at the University of South Carolina Spartanburg and received a standing ovation from a predominantly black crowd.
"We're going to win!" Mr. Gephardt shouted. "We're going to have a new president. It all begins here!"
Though Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and Gen. Wesley K. Clark of Arkansas have been leading in most local polls, a significant percentage of voters remain undecided, and political experts say the endorsement will give Mr. Gephardt's candidacy a boost.
"It is the most valuable endorsement a candidate could get in South Carolina," Donald L. Fowler, a former national Democratic chairman and a South Carolinian, said of Mr. Clyburn's endorsement. But, he added, if Mr. Gephardt is "not in the race because of a poor showing in Iowa and New Hampshire, it won't make a big difference."
It was perhaps with Iowa in mind that Mr. Gephardt called on Dr. Dean to release all of the records documenting his dealings with Enron, the collapsed energy concern. He was responding to an article in The Boston Globe that described how, as Vermont's governor in the 1990's, Dr. Dean promoted tax incentives to get some corporations, including Enron, to set up insurance subsidiaries in the state.
"While Howard Dean was cutting taxes for companies like Enron and cutting spending on Medicaid, public education and prescription drugs for seniors, Bill Clinton and I proved you can balance the budget a different way," he said.
For the second day in a row, Dr. Dean dismissed the criticism from Mr. Gephardt, saying, "The Enron stuff was ridiculous." Flying from Des Moines to Atlanta, he told reporters: "Enron never got any tax breaks from Vermont. That is a joke."
The Enron subsidiary was one of hundreds of such "captive" insurance companies lured to Vermont with financial incentives. 
Dr. Dean's campaign manager, Joe Trippi, said in a statement that Dr. Dean had met with business leaders as governor, and that "building a strong economy was one of the things Vermonters elected him to do." 
As Mr. Gephardt tried to capitalize on Mr. Clyburn's endorsement, Dr. Dean added Representative Elijah E. Cummings, the Maryland Democrat who heads the Congressional Black Caucus, and 17 Georgia lawmakers to a growing list of elected officials endorsing his campaign, buttressing his support among Southern and black politicians.
But Mr. Gephardt did not mention Dr. Dean to audiences here. He criticized trade deals with Mexico and China that have been blamed for job losses here and laced his speeches with a strong defense of affirmative action and a description of his life growing up in a poor family. 
"Jim Clyburn and many of you in this audience came up the same way we did," Mr. Gephardt said in Rock Hill. "We came up the hard way. That's why we fight for affirmative action. That's why we fight for equality of opportunity." 
Mr. Clyburn said he believed Mr. Gephardt's life story would resonate with voters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representatives James E. Clyburn, center, and John M. Spratt Jr., both of South Carolina, showed support for Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri on Saturday during a rally in Rock Hill, S.C. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (77%); TAX LAW (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); BUDGETS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%); INSURANCE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Endorsements; Blacks; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: JAMES CLYBURN (91%); JOHN SPRATT (59%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Rachel L Swarns; Richard A (Rep) Gephardt; James E (Rep) Clyburn

GEOGRAPHIC: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (90%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (78%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); IOWA, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) South Carolina; Iowa

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



390 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Rearguard Protection; 
Presidents' Power to Polarize Gives Them a Winning Edge

BYLINE:  By SAM TANENHAUS; Sam Tanenhaus, a Vanity Fair contributing editor, is author of "Whittaker Chambers."

 BODY:
DEMOCRATS and Republicans agree that the coming campaign will be a referendum on the president's leadership -- "the direction in which his dramatic tax-cutting policies have guided the economy and the wisdom of his force-oriented activism in foreign affairs," as The New York Times summarized it. In addition, presidential advisers foresee a polarized electorate, divided along economic and ideological lines. The wild card is the Middle East, "the most explosive issue we face," one Republican said. "If we should take 20, 30 or 40 casualties there in one day, we'd be in very serious trouble," he worried. 
 Sound familiar? Actually, all those observations were made 20 years ago. The incumbent in question was not George W. Bush, but Ronald Reagan. In 1984, he was still being blamed by Democrats for a struggling economy and a poorly planned mission in Lebanon that had resulted the previous fall in the deaths of 241 American soldiers when their barracks was bombed. Meanwhile, Republicans staunchly backed him, especially the right. 
 Yet for all of Mr. Reagan's apparent vulnerability early on, he was re-elected with a record 49 states. Now it is President Bush who is portrayed as a divisive partisan figure attracting admiration and loathing in equal measure. 
Surely, there are differences this time around -- principally the Sept. 11 terror attacks and the war on terror, which have defined the Bush administration even more starkly than Mr. Reagan's cold war assertiveness and antigovernment views. Democratic presidential hopefuls are openly contemptuous of Mr. Bush. The angriest of them, Gov. Howard Dean, is leading the pack.
But if history is any guide, Mr. Bush's power to polarize may help him. Election results over the past four decades show that incumbents who have aroused intense partisan passions easily cinched a second term. Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton divided voters as much as Mr. Reagan did. Less divisive presidents, like Gerald Ford and George H.W. Bush, were sent packing. 
Partisanship helps incumbents frame issues in clear, simple themes. It also holds off challenges from within the incumbent's own party, usually from more partisan rivals. Since 1968, every incumbent who was challenged for renomination (or, as with Mr. Ford, nominated for the first time) lost. Those unopposed were re-elected. 
Elected in a landslide in 1964, Lyndon Johnson still seemed formidable in 1968. His popularity had sunk, but a majority supported the Vietnam War and his far-reaching social programs. But antiwar Democrats formed a "dump Johnson" movement, and Senator Eugene McCarthy came within seven percentage points of winning the New Hampshire primary. Three weeks later, Johnson announced he would not seek re-election, and a crowded field brawled in primaries that left the Democratic Party in tatters. 
Subsequent races followed a similar pattern: Mr. Ford's in 1976; Jimmy Carter's in 1980; and the elder Mr. Bush's in 1992. Each was forced to fend off a partisan rival during the nomination period. Mr. Ford, who took office after Nixon resigned, was praised across party lines for healing a post-Watergate nation. He was warned of an impending challenge from Mr. Reagan, but did not take it seriously. But Mr. Reagan was the leader of the Republican Party's conservative wing, which objected to Mr. Ford's centrism. A hard-fought string of primaries fractured the party in the spring and summer of 1976. When delegates assembled at the nominating convention in Kansas City, Mr. Ford squeaked through on the first ballot and invited Mr. Reagan to address the convention. Mr. Reagan endorsed not the nominee but the aggressively conservative platform Mr. Reagan's own forces had written. Mr. Ford left Kansas City as damaged goods. 
Four years later Mr. Carter's moralistic streak and hardening cold war stance alienated liberals, who backed Senator Edward M. Kennedy in the primaries. Mr. Carter prevailed but was upstaged at the convention by Senator Kennedy's ringing vow that "the dream will never die."
In 1992, George H.W. Bush turned off party loyalists by revoking his "no new taxes" pledge. He was challenged in the New Hampshire primary by Patrick Buchanan, who, like Mr. Reagan in 1976, gained control of the convention, which climaxed when Mr. Buchanan took to the podium to declare a "religious and cultural war" against the Democrats, all but dooming Mr. Bush's race.
More adroit presidents have used the politics of polarization to fortify their grip on the White House. Nixon limped into office in 1968 with only 43 percent of the vote, owing to a fierce third-party challenge by George Wallace. But he deftly drew the party faithful into his battle with the "liberal media" and the "Eastern establishment," and sided with construction workers who attacked antiwar protesters in New York. In 1972, no viable Republican challenged Nixon, and he trounced George McGovern. 
In 1992, Bill Clinton copied Nixon's model. He, too, captured only 43 percent of the vote, and his early stumbles cost him standing among Democrats and emboldened Republicans, who won control of the House in 1994, led by Newt Gingrich and his "Contract With America." But Mr. Gingrich's ceaseless attacks on White House "McGoverniks" helped Mr. Clinton reposition himself. Even as his policies grew more conservative (the overhaul of the welfare system was the most striking example) he was able to present himself as a bulwark against a surging tide on the right. This appealed to traditional liberal constituencies and pre-empted any bid from his left. The party's convention in 1996 was a coronation, and Mr. Clinton coasted to re-election. 
Mr. Bush's political team has absorbed these lessons. Their man, too, barely won the first time around and occupies the White House at a moment when the country is split. Yet he is content to be seen as polarizing by his foes. The Republicans' first advertising blitz implies that the administration's critics are undermining the "war on terror" -- an accusation likely to resurface in the months ahead. Also, like Mr. Reagan in 1984, Mr. Bush has been capitalizing on the economic recovery by reminding voters that the Democrats opposed his tax cuts. And he was quick to criticize the recent decision by a Massachusetts court endorsing gay marriage.
All this makes Democrats fume but pulls Republicans into his camp. It is already clear that no challenger will emerge from within, meaning that Mr. Bush, like Mr. Reagan 20 years before, can look ahead to November without squandering capital on a rearguard defense.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Lane) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); WAR ON TERROR (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TERRORISM (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); ARMED FORCES (67%); VIETNAM WAR (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government; Election Issues

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); RICHARD NIXON (59%) Sam Tanenhaus; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



391 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: 2003: THE 3rd ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; 
Forget the South

BYLINE:  By Ryan Lizza

 BODY:
It has long been an article of faith among Democratic strategists that their party can't win the White House without at least part of the once-solidly-Democratic South. Since 1964, the only Democrats elected president have been Southerners, and conventional wisdom holds that only a Democrat with a Southern base can win the presidency. 
 Howard Dean courted controversy in October when he talked about the need for Democrats to win Southern votes. But privately, Dean's aides often make a different case. Al Gore's failing in 2000, they say, was not that he couldn't win in the South, but that he couldn't nail down New England. If Gore had been able to muster a few thousand more votes in New Hampshire, he would have won the presidency without a single Southern state. 
 For some Democrats, this insight has led to a heretical theory about next year's presidential election: Forget the South. The Forget-the-South argument has little to do with anti-Dixie bias. Instead, it is based on simple mathematics.
Consider the numbers. Democrats and Republicans agree that Bush and his eventual rival will each start the race with an ironclad base of states that are virtually unwinnable for the other party. Bush's base is rooted in the South, plains and interior West of the country, while the Democratic nominee can take for granted most of New England, the West Coast and a smattering of the Midwest. Most strategists calculate that Bush can count on 20 states with 170 electoral votes, and that the Democratic candidate starts with 11 states and the District of Columbia, totaling 168 electoral votes. That leaves the two candidates with a battleground of just 19 swing states.
Nine of those 19 states -- none of them in the South -- went for Clinton in 1992 and 1996 and for Gore in 2000. These are the blue-leaning states, and any Democratic candidate has to lock them up before dipping his toe below the Mason-Dixon line. Victory in all nine would increase the Democrat's total to 260 electoral votes, still 10 short of victory.
That leaves 10 red-leaning states, from which the Democratic nominee needs to scrape up those final 10 electoral votes. Four of them (Florida, Tennessee, Louisiana and Arkansas) are in the South. The six remaining battleground states (Ohio, Missouri, West Virginia, Arizona, Nevada and New Hampshire) are geographically situated in areas of the greatest Democratic growth and strength. Why, ask the proponents of the Forget-the-South strategy, waste millions of dollars fighting for the 27 electoral votes in Jeb Bush's Florida when you can wrap up the election by winning the 20 in the economically battered state of Ohio?
As for Tennessee, Louisiana and Arkansas, there is an argument to be made for the Democrats to fight hard in each of them, but they are less competitive than the swing states outside Dixie. This process of elimination leads inexorably to the Forget-the-South strategy. It also lets Democrats be Democrats. Instead of pandering to (as Howard Dean famously put it) "guys with Confederate flags in their pickup trucks," thus alienating blacks and liberals, a Democratic nominee like Dean could aim his message at Americans who might actually vote for him. Ryan Lizza

GRAPHIC: Map shows states likely to vote for President Bush and those likely to vote for Democratic candiate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (78%) Ryan Lizza

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



392 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Has Irrational Exuberance Hit China?

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: Hong Kong 

 BODY:
POWER plants in China cannot keep up with electricity demand, and so many steel mills are being built there that all the world's iron ore mines together may not be able to supply them adequately. Inflation, in the 12 months through November, ran at the fastest pace in six years, and the country's money supply is rising 20 percent a year.
 So what did China's leaders do last week? 
 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said in Washington that China was not yet ready to let its currency, the yuan, rise against the dollar in foreign exchange. Economists say that this means speculative and foreign investments are likely to continue to pour into China. 
 In Beijing, the People's Bank of China reduced the interest rate it pays on bank reserves in excess of the legal minimums. That easing of monetary policy, partly reversing a tightening that took effect on Sept. 21, will give banks an incentive to lend even more money to companies and individuals.
 While China's leaders portray themselves as farsighted engineers who can manage their country's economic growth better than a democratically elected government could, their recent economic policies show a strong inclination to let the good times roll for now and to worry later about any ensuing bust.
 Prodding the money supply while resisting currency appreciation shows a reluctance to let economic growth falter at all, even as Western economists put China's expansion at an annual pace of 10 percent this fall. "If you're very preoccupied about social stability and you've got a weak banking system, do you really want to appreciate your currency?" said William Belchere, chief Asia economist at J.P. Morgan Chase.
 Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, was accused in the late 1990's of letting the money supply grow too fast to accommodate American economic growth. Economists differ on how much this expansionary monetary policy aided the Internet boom and subsequent bust.
 But Mr. Greenspan's management of the American economy then seems downright stodgy compared with the conduct of China's rulers now. Indeed, Mr. Greenspan warned in a speech on Thursday of a possible overheating of China's economy, "with its potential recessionary consequences." 
 The official New China News Agency said on Wednesday that electricity consumption leaped 15.6 percent in the first nine months as factories opened and people bought more appliances. Blackouts are spreading: some businesses in Zhejiang Province have to operate in the wee hours of the morning.
 China's steel output is already up 15 percent this year, to an estimated 210 million tons, making China the world's largest steel producer and leaving shipping lines and iron ore mines worldwide working day and night.But Chinese provinces are already erecting additional steel mills with combined annual capacity of 120 million more tons. Even if iron ore can be found for these mills, China may have difficulty finding foreign markets for the steel.
 The common denominator in many of China's economic problems is a dysfunctional banking system that still extends some loans based on the political connections of borrowers, especially state-owned enterprises. At the same time, the executives of state-owned enterprises have shown a strong herd instinct of rushing into whatever industry seems to be growing fastest. A result is that many provinces build the same kind of factories at the same time, as is now the case with steel, and bank officers approve loans for most or all of the factories.
 LIANG HONG, an economist here for Goldman Sachs, said the decision by the People's Bank to reduce interest rates on excess bank reserves was best understood as a form of banking regulation. When the People's Bank raised reserve requirements on Sept. 21, it squeezed small banks, which had lent almost all the money they could and were holding minimal reserves at the central bank.
 The Big Four banks that already dominate Chinese finance had been more cautious and had ample excess reserves even after the minimum was raised to 7 percent of deposits, from 6 percent. But even with rates rising for interbank loans, the big banks have been reluctant to lend their excess reserves to smaller banks, which have been left so short of money to lend that they are being squeezed out of the banking market, Ms. Liang said.
 By paying less interest on excess reserves, the People's Bank is pushing the big banks to lend more money, especially to smaller banks. 
 But in trying to save the small banks, the People's Bank has sent the message that China's economic party can go rollicking on, at least in the short term. At a time when the Fed would probably be taking away the punch bowl, the People's Bank is letting China's people drink.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Lending More"Loans by financial institutions in China. Graph tracks loans, measured in trillions of yuan, since 2000. (Source by Morgan Stanley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); IRON MINING (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); RECESSION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING IN CHINA (74%); POLITICS (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (54%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Credit; Currency

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (77%); WEN JIABAO (58%) Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



393 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2228 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: THE OCCUPATION; 
A Baghdad Neighborhood, Once Hopeful, Now Reels As Iraq's Turmoil Persists

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq 

 BODY:
Ghazalia is a neighborhood on edge.
 Random violence and roadside bombs aimed at American patrols make the streets unsafe after dark. On the local council, Shiites and Sunnis squabble. Jobs are scarce, and prices are soaring. The electricity fails daily, and cooking gas, a necessity here, has grown scarce. 
 In ways large and small, life in this neighborhood of 150,000 people has worsened in the eight months since the United States toppled Saddam Hussein. Now the residents of Ghazalia, a suburban neighborhood that is in many ways a microcosm of the city, are nearly out of patience. 
For the people who live here -- a mix of Sunni and Shiite Muslims, rich homeowners and poor renters -- the daily turmoil is exhausting and enervating. For the United States, it is a serious strategic problem, as was evident during dozens of visits to Ghazalia this fall.
To right its troubled occupation, the United States has focused on reducing attacks on American troops and capturing loyalists to Mr. Hussein. But a quieter battle is playing out on these streets, as American forces try to prove to Iraqis that they can police the neighborhoods streets and deliver basic services in a country ravaged by decades of dictatorship.
If the United States succeeds, it is in a position to dry up support for Mr. Hussein's guerrillas, who are more feared than loved. But if Washington fails, it could face a greater and new wave of resistance from ordinary Iraqis disgusted with their lives.
And so far, despite the best efforts of the American military, the United States is losing that battle, many residents say.
"It was very hard in Saddam's time," Jabaar Husan, 30, said as he waited in line for cylinders of cooking gas at 5:30 a.m. one day in November outside Ghazalia's propane station. "But life becomes harder to me and my children now, so I can't consider it better. The Americans did nothing for us. They just brought killing, theft, robberies, all those things."
Nothing symbolized the problems in Ghazalia this fall more than the shortage of cooking gas cylinders.
The lines formed each morning in the darkness at 3. By 5:30, with dawn approaching, more than 100 people waited outside the neighborhood bottling station. 
The men crowded around a fire, rubbing their hands and shivering in the cold November air. The women, in long black robes, stood in a row that ran crookedly between rolls of barbed wire. 
They had come for cylinders of liquid propane gas, used to heat ovens and bake bread. The cylinders were supposed to cost 250 Iraqi dinars -- 12.5 cents -- and in Mr. Hussein's time they did.
But now, the station ran out of gas every day, leaving the people in line empty-handed. Yet each day black marketeers in the neighborhood have plenty of cylinders available for 10 or 20 times the official price. And no one in authority, American or Iraqi, could explain why.
"Saddam sucked our blood," Ban Tariq, a mother of four, said inside her tidy home on a November afternoon in Ghazalia, just before the electricity failed yet again and the lights went out. "We expected after he was toppled that we would have our fortunes again, but we really got nothing. Each day we have a new crisis."
Ghazalia is on the western edge of Baghdad, sprawling and new, the most suburban part of a suburban city. It is surrounded by highways to the south and east, open fields to the west. A sewage canal marks its northern edge.
The neighborhood's most distinctive building is the giant Mother of All Battles Mosque, which Mr. Hussein built in 1999 to mark what he portrayed as his great victory in the first Persian Gulf war of 1991. At night, the lights of the mosque's minarets -- designed to resemble machine-gun turrets -- glare out.
Mr. Hussein began building Ghazalia in the early 1980's as a home for army officers and other members of his Baath Party. Concrete mansions with pillars and domes are common in the southern half of the district. More big houses, mostly unfinished, are scattered across a military base in central Ghazalia now used by American paratroopers.
But the big houses disappear near the sewage canal at the northern end, where children playing soccer share the dusty streets with goats, and the stench of human waste fills the air. Not coincidentally, northern Ghazalia is Shiite Muslim, while southern Ghazalia is mostly Sunni.
In Ghazalia, Mr. Hussein showed his contempt for the majority Shiites in ways large and small. He refused to allow them even one mosque, while the Sunnis had nearly a dozen. To worship, the Shiites had to cross an inconveniently located bridge over the sewage canal to Shula.
Abbass al-Musawi, a heavy man with a beard and a gray robe -- favored by many Iraqi men -- that makes him look something like a monochromatic Santa Claus, is not about to forget the insults. Mr. Musawi, a Shiite, heads the Ghazalia citizens' council, a group of 32 local leaders appointed by the United States to represent the district.
Mr. Musawi and his fellow Shiite council members ruled in early November that 18 former teachers, Sunnis who had been members of the Baath Party, could not have their jobs back. "We are frightened of the Baathists, so why are we giving them assistance?" he said. "They had 35 years. The priority should go to people who were unemployed before."
On the streets, the conflict played out more openly and bloodily this fall. On a Monday night in November, a white station wagon pulled up to a roadside cigarette stand owned by Shakir Muhammad, a former officer in Mr. Hussein's Mukhabarat. Three masked men hopped out and shot him dead. "His face was all in blood," said one witness, Abu Asad. "They targeted his face." 
Mr. Muhammad's funeral was filled with Baathists not afraid to defend the old government, as long as they did not have to give their names. "Everybody has his own pluses and minuses," said one mourner who identified himself only as Abu Omer, "Father of Omer." 
"Any ruler can make mistakes," he said. "Saddam Hussein is a human being, he was good. No one who was fair and just could deny this -- in agriculture, in industry, in trade."

Conflicting Views of Reality
On a television set in the corner, L. Paul Bremer III, the American administrator of the occupation, was saying that United States needed time to root out the guerrillas opposing it. A few days earlier, the guerrillas had attacked three police stations and the Baghdad headquarters of the Red Cross, so this analysis did not strike Mr. Musawi as trenchant. Beside Mr. Bremer, Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez, the American military commander in Iraq, wore his usual preoccupied expression. 
The holy month of Ramadan had just begun, and Mr. Musawi had invited two council members to break the fast at his home, a few blocks from the council headquarters. As Mr. Musawi disappeared into the kitchen, reappearing with sweet sticky dates and other appetizers, General Sanchez called the car bombs "an operationally insignificant surge" and Mr. Bremer promised success for the occupation.
The council members watched politely for few minutes, then lost interest. What did Mr. Bremer know of their reality? He never ventured out of his heavily protected compound without an enormous armed escort.
As the roasted chickens, tart yogurt milk and fried dough flowed out of the kitchen, the conversation turned to the once forbidden and still painful topic of the destruction that Mr. Hussein had caused in Iraq. The men joked grimly about senior officials who had barely graduated from elementary school and a science minister who did not know that steam is boiled water. 
To survive, Mr. Musawi said, Mr. Hussein turned Sunni against Shiite and neighbor against neighbor, creating networks of informants reaching into every block of Ghazalia. 
"I don't trust anybody, not even my close friends," Mr. Musawi said. Any gathering, even a funeral, could attract unwelcome attention. Tribes and clerics lost influence, and social organizations faded away, until only Mr. Hussein's government was left. 
Now the Baathists are attacking the basic institutions of civil society. Mr. Hussein's henchmen meant to leave Iraq with a choice between the fist of repression or the claw of anarchy. The United States needed to fight harder to stop them, and to recognize the cunning of its enemy, Mr. Musawi said. 
"Iraqis lie," he said. "The regime was dealing with the Iraqi people by force, the Iraqi people are built on force, used to being treated by force."
When they did approach American soldiers with important information about terrorist groups, the United States rarely acted, council members complained. Lt. Col. Eric Nantz, who controls much of western Baghdad from his base in Ghazalia, could not disagree more. 
"What I'm trying to do is get the locals to stand up," he said in early November, at the site of a rocket-propelled grenade attack that narrowly missed a Humvee filled with his soldiers. The attack had come in daylight, less than 100 yards from a school; the guerrillas escaped. "The overwhelming majority of Iraqis, they understand, but they're afraid," he added. "What we need is for them to stand up and say this is wrong." 
The United States cannot arrest every former Baathist in Ghazalia, said Maj. Paul Fellinger, the battalion's second-in-command. The battalion's officers tell local leaders, "If they're as bad as you say they are, we need sworn statements," he said. 
Colonel Nantz commands the First Battalion of the 325th Regiment of the 82nd Airborne Division, whose tanks and paratroopers patrol six neighborhoods, including Ghazalia. But the 82nd has only 800 soldiers to patrol a population of a half million. 
When the battalion arrived in May, it expected to be in Baghdad for a month, Major Fellinger said. Now the soldiers fear that even after they complete this tour in Iraq, they will have to return for another one.

A Family's Struggles
Things had not always been so miserable, Ban Tariq and her husband, Hatem Zaki, said. Ms. Tariq and Mr. Zaki, who lived with their four children in a tidy house a few blocks north of the barbershop, were Sunnis who had grown up in prosperous families. Carefully arranged middle-class furnishings filled their living room: a set of teacups and a milk pourer, doilies and glass bowls and matching wooden tables. But the family was slowly losing its grip. 
Last year, to make ends meet, Ms. Tariq had sold one of the family's two rugs for 250,000 Iraqi dinars -- $125. She and Mr. Zaki had received the rug in 1984, as a wedding present. 
"I told my husband we have to sell one," she said. "It's better for me to get new clothes for my children, better than to have a carpet on the floor of my house." 
Fearing armed robbers, Mr. Zaki quit his job as a cigarette distributor, the family's main source of income, and must pay higher costs for his diabetes medicines. He had not been able to find other work. The family gets by on about $125 a month, from his pension and what little Ms. Tariq earns from a small business making meat pastries for her neighbors.
The family is still wealthier than most Iraqis. But Ms. Tariq could not hide from herself the truth that her children's lives were worse than hers had been when she was young. She had traveled to Morocco and Turkey as a young woman. Growing up during the 1970's, she studied and played in peace. "We have other ideas for our future, but you want something and God wants something else," Ms. Tariq said.
Simply by staying alive, Mr. Hussein is damaging the occupation, people here say. The prospect, however remote, that he might return to power makes Iraqis afraid to cooperate with the United States.
The people of Ghazalia do not understand why the United States cannot be rid of him, any more than they understand why the United States cannot guarantee an affordable supply of gas cylinders. They wonder whether the United States is letting Mr. Hussein remain free so that its troops can permanently stay on Iraqi soil. Is America, perhaps, even working with The Destroyer?

Simmering Discontent
To the American ear, these musings may sound absurd. But after a generation of dictatorship, Iraqis believe the worst. As the days go by without improvement, the people of Ghazalia seem increasingly willing to believe that the only explanation for their plight is that the United States wants them to suffer.
That discontent has not translated into rebellion. For one thing no credible opposition leader has sprung up in the last seven months, though the Governing Council has little support, most of its members having lived outside Iraq during Mr. Hussein's rule, far from its brutality and poverty. Osama bin Laden's brand of fundamentalism also does not have much support in relatively secular Iraq.
The calm also seems to come from the fact that Iraqis are used to being ruled; before Mr. Hussein were the British, and before them, the Ottomans. So people wait and hope.
But hope is draining away, people say, and that makes them worry that the misery will curdle into anger, and into protests.
On a recent Friday night, 11 Shiites gathered for dinner at Mr. Musawi's house. All 11 said they were more pessimistic than they had been six months before. The United States is running out of time, said Muhammad Saddam. 
"If the situation lasts for the next six or seven months, the American administrators will feel like they're sitting on a big volcano," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Women waiting for cylinders of cooking gas, now in short supply and expensive, at the propane station in Ghazalia, a Baghdad neighborhood. (Photo by Michael Kamber/Polaris, for The New York Times) Chart: "The Ghazalia Neighborhood in Baghdad"The 150,000 people who live in this northwest suburb of Baghdad are a mix of mostly poor Shiite and moslty wealthy Sunni. (Source by Satellite image from DigitalGlobe) Map of Baghdad highlighting Ghazalia neighborhood and the following: Sewage CanalPropane cylinder stationPoorer Shiite sectionArea used by the U.S. militaryLarge homesMother of All Battles MosqueWealthier Sunni section

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PROPANE (89%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ROBBERY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SUBURBS (73%); LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (72%); RELIGION (69%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) Alex Berenson

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2003 



394 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Diary 

BYLINE:  By Joe Rogers

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY:
Several years before relocating to Florida, I was commuting on the PATH to Hoboken and noticed passengers moving away from a section of the car. In a few moments it became clear that a good-size crab had escaped (from where?) and was looking for a hiding place.
 When everyone had disembarked in Hoboken -- and after a brief passing thought about a crab dinner -- I took pity on the creature. Using my newspaper, I scooped the crab up, carried it upstairs and dropped it over the railing into the river. 
 I was never quite sure if the lower Hudson would be hospitable to a misplaced crab, but it had to be better than riding the PATH.
 Clifford Reiss

Dear Diary:
Recently I was at Old Montefiore Cemetery in St. Albans, Queens, to pay my respects to my wonderful father, Ted. Since he is in the Shomrim section of the cemetery (where Jewish police personnel and their spouses are buried) only footstones are allowed.
As I approached, I noticed that he had a new "neighbor." I read the epitaph on the footstone, then read the epitaph on the next one as well.
I found myself smiling.
The husband, who died 10 years ago, had as his epitaph, "He did it his way." His wife, who was a new arrival, had as her epitaph, "She did it his way, too!"
How great to have kept your sense of humor even for after your death. As I drove away, I felt happy knowing that my dad was in good company. Dale Baskin Altman

Dear Diary:
One recent Friday evening, as I was fighting my way down the Great White Way through crowds of slow-moving tourists, I chanced to hear one of them remark, "Boy, they sure do light it up!"
His friend, in response, said, "They sure do." Then, after a pause, added, "But it's nothing compared to Vegas."
As a true native New Yorker, I wasn't sure whether to be amused or offended. Ellen Lask

Dear Diary:
After my mom died and we helped my dad relocate, I spent several weeks cleaning out, sorting and trying to let go of much of what my family had accumulated in more than 30 years in the second and last home we lived in together, in Peoria, Ill.
After giving it my best, I finally surrendered and hired two rather remarkable women to run an estate sale. I left them with some special requests -- items to watch for as they organized for the sale -- and they were careful to keep an eye out for things they thought the family might have overlooked.
A week or so after the estate sale, I opened a package expecting to see a favorite salt shaker and a set of toy dishes from the 60's that I was quite fond of. And there they were. But alongside them I was surprised to find another small box that, when opened, revealed a bird's nest that we had rescued as the winter set in more than 25 years earlier.
There are things that sit quietly for decades in a garage in the Midwest that are hard to situate in a New York City apartment. I was musing with my daughter about what we might do with it, thinking perhaps a friend's child or a nursery school might be the beneficiary of this treasure.
"Are you kidding?" said my very urban daughter. "Put it in a tree; that's like finding a furnished apartment." Elana Katz

Dear Diary:
We were living on West58th Street when our 23-year-old son died of a heat stroke/heart attack after a bike ride in Central Park on a hot autumn day. After that, I continued to walk past the Plaza Hotel and through Central Park on my way to work.
A doorman at the hotel, who knew I wasn't a guest there and to whom I was a total stranger, tipped his hat to me every day, smiled and said: "Good morning, Madam, how are you this morning? Beautiful day, today, isn't it? Have a wonderful day." He said it with feeling and genuine caring. His name was Edward Trinka.
I came to look forward to his greeting as if his wishing me a good day would make it possible. After about a year, I stopped one day and told him he couldn't possibly know how much his greetings meant to some people, and I told him my story. He was deeply touched, and from then on was even more careful to greet me.
Once as I was walked by, a small knot of people gathered to watch a celebrity get out of her limousine. Eddie rushed over to greet me, and the knot of people moved, too, certain that I must be Somebody. I laughed about that for a long time.
A little later, we moved to another place in the city, and I didn't see Eddie again. One recent Sunday, however, around the 13th anniversary of our son's death, my husband and I walked through Central Park and past the Plaza Hotel. Eddie rushed over to greet us and show us pictures of his grandchildren. He said that he hadn't worked a Sunday in 20 years but that he was working that day for someone who was ill.
Coincidence? My husband and I didn't think so. Peggy Sherertz

Dear Diary:
On the evening before the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, as I watched the inflation of the balloons on Central Park West, I overheard a boy of about 5 calling out the names of those balloon characters he recognized.
"What balloon is this, Daddy?" he asked, referring to the Uncle Sam balloon.
His father replied, "He's the one who Daddy pays his biggest check of the year to." Jeffrey Lefton Goldstein
"Ruff-ruff, ribbet-ribbet. Ruff-ruff, ribbet-ribbet."
Steve Raaen was sure it was someone truly demented muttering behind him as he crossed a street at Columbus Circle. He turned, shook his head and smiled at the fairly normal-looking young man following him. It had occurred to Steve that he was wearing an old favorite sweatshirt from an old favorite restaurant in Park City, Utah: The Barking Frog.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Phil Marden) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELOCATIONS (78%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



395 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: City Opera, In Flux, Is Changing Leadership 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
The chairman of New York City Opera, Irwin Schneiderman, a lawyer who has led the opera's efforts to leave Lincoln Center for ground zero, said on Friday that he would step down on Jan. 1 after 10 years in the post.
 He will be succeeded by Susan L. Baker, a former investment banker who is co-chairwoman of the board's strategic planning committee, which was formed recently to help chart the future of an opera company, founded partly by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia as "the people's opera." 
 With the company's location unsettled, Mr. Schneiderman said, the moment called for younger blood. He is 80; Ms. Baker is 53. "We're about to enter into a five-year project," he said, referring to City Opera's efforts to move to the former World Trade Center site. "So it seemed to me the leadership should be somebody who is going to be around to do it." 
Mr. Schneiderman is leaving at a crucial moment for City Opera, which desperately wants a home of its own, having shared the New York State Theater for 38 years with the New York City Ballet. The company has long complained that the theater was acoustically unfit for opera.
City Opera's proposal for ground zero is being evaluated -- along with those of 111 other cultural institutions -- by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs and the New York State Council on the Arts. The company said that it expected some indication of its chances by next month and a final answer by the spring.
Whatever City Opera does will shape the future of Lincoln Center, especially its ambitious redevelopment plans. If the opera were forced to stay, it would have to resume discussions with City Ballet about renovating the State Theater, talks that would probably be fraught because the ballet believes the theater, designed for dance, is fine as it is. If City Opera were to leave, Lincoln Center would need to fill the State Theater during the ballet's off-season. And City Opera, for its part, would still have to cover financial obligations on its Lincoln Center lease, which runs through 2014.
Another looming question is whether Lincoln Center would make a concerted effort to keep City Opera on campus, having almost lost the New York Philharmonic to Carnegie Hall in a proposed merger this year. Bruce Crawford, chairman of Lincoln Center, said his efforts had been only casual so far: "We really haven't done any more than express a desire that they stay."
That sentiment is a change from Mr. Crawford's position in May, a month before the Philharmonic merger was announced. "They don't want to be in the New York State Theater for reasons they have clearly stated," he said then. "They make a very good case for that."
On Friday Mr. Schneiderman said Lincoln Center still seemed indifferent about whether City Opera stayed or remained. "Frankly," he said, "I don't think Lincoln Center really cares much, which is fine."
When the Philharmonic was planning to leave for Carnegie Hall, Mr. Schneiderman and the opera's general and artistic director, Paul Kellogg, discussed with Lincoln Center the possibility of City Opera's moving into Avery Fisher Hall. "Lincoln Center wasn't interested," Mr. Schneiderman said. "They wanted that as a house for symphonic music, and they've already got an opera house," the Metropolitan Opera.
Mr. Schneiderman, whose law firm is Cahill, Gordon & Reindel, said he would remain on the board as chairman emeritus and stay on as co-chairman for a six-month transition period. "I have a great emotional stake in this company," he said. "We've been trying for a long time to get our own place. I'd love to see that under way."
As an investment banker, Ms. Baker worked at Goldman Sachs, Kidder Peabody, Lehman Brothers and elsewhere. Like Mr. Schneiderman, she has given more than $500,000 a year to City Opera, and she has been on the organization's board for four years. 
City Opera wants to stage 19 weeks of opera and 24 weeks of American musical theater each year in a performing arts center at the redeveloped World Trade Center site. Mr. Schneiderman said the opera company requested $100 million in government support for building the center, which is expected to cost $300 million. "We think, between gifts and bond issues, we can raise the other $200 million," Mr. Schneiderman said. 
Several arts executives have questioned City Opera's ability to raise that money. Robert W. Wilson, a substantial donor to the company, had initially said he might contribute $50 million toward a building, but later said he would not help subsidize an opera house downtown. "Based on the proposal they made, which would emphasize musicals as much as operas, I would not support it," Mr. Wilson said. "I think they should settle in and wait. Maybe in another 10 or 20 years another opportunity will present itself."
Even if he did contribute, Mr. Wilson said, it would not cover much. "I don't see how on earth the City Opera could come up with $300 million, even if I ponied up $50 million," he said.
Fund-raising for arts groups has been difficult despite the recent uptick in the economy; even the typically strong Metropolitan Opera had a projected deficit of about $10 million last year. City Opera had a $2.5 million deficit last year, and it is projecting a deficit of about $2 million for the current fiscal year, Mr. Kellogg said. 
The opera recently sought a line of credit to cover its expenses, to avoid dipping into its endowment. But City Opera maintains that is in solid financial shape, with an endowment of $57 million. "We are viable," Mr. Kellogg said. "We've got the reserves."
If City Opera is rejected for ground zero and tries to build somewhere else, Mr. Wilson said, the costs would be substantially greater. "To acquire land will cost at least half a billion dollars," he said. 
Another location being considered is the area around the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center if it were to be developed for the 2012 Olympics, which New York is vying for. Another site is around the Trump buildings along the Hudson River on the Upper West Side. But both locations are not on subway lines. And Mr. Schneiderman said City Opera's audience is "not the limousine crowd."
"We have to be near somewhere with very good public transportation," he said. "And that's not there now."
Mr. Schneiderman said he hoped to be involved with City Opera when it finally gets its own home. "It's the underdog," he said, comparing it with the Met. "I just love the whole notion of Mayor La Guardia and this being the people's opera. It's my kind of club."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In January Susan L. Baker, shown with her dog Giuliani will bring her experience as an investment banker to her new role as chairwoman of New York City Opera, leading that company as it considers a new home. (Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BALLET (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DANCE (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); OPERA (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); MERGERS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%) OPERA; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%) NEW YORK CITY OPERA; LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: SCHNEIDERMAN, IRWIN; BAKER, SUSAN; POGREBIN, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



396 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Another Battle For Bush 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There are two things I hope will emerge from the capture of Saddam. Like so many others, I hope the effort in Iraq becomes much more widely shared, internationalized, which would be good not just for Iraq and the U.S. but for the short- and long-term stability of the entire planet.
 My second hope is that the Bush administration will begin to apply the kind of focus, energy and resources that it used in Iraq to the economic difficulties of ordinary working families here in America. 
 If you just went by recent headlines, you'd have the impression that the U.S. economy is as bright as the Christmas tree in Rockefeller Center. The G.D.P. is surging. The stock market, retail sales and corporate profits are up. So is productivity. 
The front-page headline in The Daily News on Thursday said, "Santa Comes Early to Wall Street." It was accompanied by a photo of Philip Purcell, the chairman and C.E.O. of Morgan Stanley, who was described by The News as "the first titan to cash in at the end of a banner year."
The article cited several executives who were expected to receive year-end bonuses in the $12 million to $17 million range.
The Bush crowd will tell you that these economic goodies are bound to trickle down. Jobs will become plentiful. Pay envelopes will fatten. Nirvana is just around the corner. 
The problem with this scenario is that there are no facts to back it up. The closer you look at employment in this country, the more convinced you become that the condition of the ordinary worker is deteriorating, not improving.
The problem is that we are not creating many jobs, and the quality of those we are creating is, for the most part, not good. Job growth at the moment is about 80,000 per month, which is not even enough to cover the new workers entering the job market.
And when the Economic Policy Institute compared the average wage of industries that are creating jobs with those that are losing jobs, analysts found a big discrepancy. The jobs lost paid about $17 an hour, compared with $14.50 an hour for those being created.
The Bush administration and its corporate allies give the impression that they would welcome a big surge in employment that would raise the wages and quality of life for all working Americans and their families. But their policies tell an entirely different story. A fierce and bitter war -- not bloody like the war in Iraq, but a war just the same -- is being waged against American workers. And so far, at least, the Bush administration has been on the wrong side.
The war is being fought on several fronts. For example, after years of shipping manufacturing jobs out of the U.S. to absurdly low-wage venues, we are now also exporting increasing numbers of technical and professional jobs.
Another example: Despite the loss of more than two million jobs over the past three years, and the fact that nearly nine million Americans are officially unemployed, the Bush administration has refused to support a Christmastime extension of crucial unemployment benefits.
Worse, the administration is trying to implement a regulation that would deny overtime protection for more than eight million men and women.
Efforts to get an increase in the pathetic $5.15 minimum wage continue to fail. The benefits from productivity increases that have resulted primarily from an incredible squeeze that employers have put on workers are not being shared with workers. Health and pension benefits are in a downward spiral.
And so on.
The way to fight these and other abuses is for employees to organize. But the right of workers to form unions and bargain collectively has been under assault for years. A thriving specialty of the legal profession is the advice it gives to corporations about how to frustrate and intimidate (and fire when necessary) those impudent workers who want to form unions. That approach has been bolstered by the full force and power of the federal government, which puts struggling workers at a hopeless disadvantage.
A front-page headline in The Times on Dec. 6 said, "Employers Balk at New Hirings, Despite Growth."
That's the reality for workers. The corporations would like to hire as few people as possible, keep wages as low as possible, provide as few benefits as possible and work the workers as long and as hard as possible.
The president of the United States should be allied with working families in this struggle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); FAMILY (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); CHRISTMAS (69%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%); RETAIL SALES (54%) LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; WORKING HOURS; FRINGE BENEFITS 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES)#000T031217SRAQA01# 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



397 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: With 'Sand and Fog,' Can Year Be Salvaged?; 
DreamWorks Still Looking for a Hit in '03

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
When the dark yet strangely beautiful directorial debut of Vadim Perelman, "House of Sand and Fog," opens Friday in theaters in Los Angeles and New York, many people in Hollywood predict it will offer something that the movie studio DreamWorks SKG has lacked lately: a critical success. Whether it can be a box office success depends on the reaction of audiences, but DreamWorks needs a winner. 
 This year has shaped up to be one of the studio's worst since the director Steven Spielberg, the animation executive Jeffrey Katzenberg and the music mogul David Geffen founded DreamWorks nearly a decade ago. Known for live-action blockbusters like 2000's "Gladiator" and arty fare like 1999's "American Beauty," the domestic box office take for all of DreamWork's movies so far this year is about $164 million -- or about the same as the take from DreamWorks' 2002 Christmas hit "Catch Me if You Can." 
 While every studio is subject to the whims of moviegoers, DreamWorks produces only 6 to 10 films a year, about half the number of its rivals. Things have simply not panned out this year. The closest it has come to a hit was the Will Ferrell comedy "Old School," released in February, and its box office total of $75 million is only middling by current standards. 
 By all accounts, DreamWorks has enough talent and creative energy to make larger competitors tremble. But its once-ambitious plan to be a powerhouse in music, television and film has faltered as the economics of those businesses changed. With the exception of the "Spin City" series, its television unit has never really taken off. And last month the company sold its music division to the Universal Music Group of Vivendi Universal for about $100 million.
 As a result, now, more than ever, DreamWorks operates in a netherworld of being too big to be considered merely a production company yet too small to be a major studio. And that has led many people in and outside of Hollywood to wonder if the company's disappointing year is indicative of bigger challenges facing DreamWorks.
 "They are creative people; if anyone could build a business model, hit a home run, they could do it," said Hal Vogel, a media analyst and author of "Entertainment Industry Economics." But as the movie business matures into a slow-growth industry, he said, DreamWorks is "struggling like everyone else."
 DreamWorks executives declined to comment for this article. But executives there have said the company is financially secure. In August 2002, it received $1.5 billion in financing arranged by bankers: $500 million as a revolving line of credit and the remaining $1 billion in an asset-backed instrument whose collateral is secured by future film revenues. 
 Furthermore, it is not until 2006 that Paul Allen, a co-founder of Microsoft and a DreamWorks investor, can start cashing in on his investment. And it is possible that if the animation division prospers next year with the release of "Shrek 2" and other animated fare, the unit could be spun off in an initial public offering as early as 2005, according to two people close to the company.
 Next year, too, could be a blockbuster year. DreamWorks is producing 10 live-action movies, including "Terminal," which is being directed by Mr. Spielberg and is to star Tom Hanks. Besides "Shrek 2," there will also be another animated film, "Shark Tale," featuring the voices of Will Smith and Robert De Niro.
 But the company's critics say the management structure of the live-action division plays a big role in DreamWorks' volatility. Although overseen by Mr. Spielberg, it is run largely by his longtime producing partner and friend, Walter F. Parkes. The two, colleagues say, are especially close, and Mr. Spielberg relies more on Mr. Parkes for movie advice than on his other partners, Mr. Geffen and Mr. Katzenberg.
 Mr. Parkes shares responsibility for picking movies with his wife and partner, Laurie MacDonald, as well as Mr. Spielberg. But the day-to-day operation of running the division is left to Michael De Luca, a young film executive whom Mr. Katzenberg hired from New Line Cinema in 2001.
 Mr. Parkes, though, has come under increasing criticism in recent months for being a micromanager who at heart is a producer, not an above-the-fray studio executive. Last year, he received a producer credit on five of DreamWorks' seven movies, an unusually high percentage of producing credits for a studio executive. 
 Outsiders say DreamWorks needs to do what other big studios do and acquire distribution rights to some other filmmakers' movies. "Until they shift gears and become buyers, it is a management challenge," said one executive who has worked with them.
 In September, Spyglass Entertainment ended a months-long production agreement to finance movies with DreamWorks even before the partnership got off the ground. According to one person involved, DreamWorks was slow to make decisions and did not plan to release enough movies to make it profitable for Spyglass. What is more, this person said, "it was confusing as to what the leadership roles were and who could develop projects." 
 Which leads to Mr. Parkes's relationship with Mr. De Luca. Mr. De Luca was hired to help increase the studio's output. But, according to colleagues of both men, Mr. Parkes and Mr. De Luca clashed from the start. One person who has worked with the two said Mr. De Luca bristled over what he saw as meddling by Mr. Parkes in his projects. That has led some producers to try and bypass Mr. De Luca altogether, knowing Mr. Parkes's ties to Mr. Spielberg, the person said.
 But Mr. De Luca's track record so far has been less than stellar, too. He was largely responsible for this year's underperformers, "Biker Boyz" and "Head of State," although Mr. Parkes ultimately approved the projects. Friends of Mr. De Luca say it is possible that he will leave the studio after his contract ends next year.
 Mr. De Luca did not return a telephone call seeking comment. Mr. Parkes, who was in the desert outside Los Angeles on the set of "The Terminal," declined to be interviewed by telephone.
 Mr. De Luca would not be the first to clash with Mr. Parkes. Bob Cooper, who had Mr. De Luca's job and worked on "American Beauty" while at DreamWorks in the late 1990's, also left after chasing under Mr. Parkes, said two former employees. 
 To be sure, Mr. Parkes can be demanding, but that does not always mean he is wrong. "I'm sure there are times when people have legitimate complaints," said Michael London, a producer of "House of Sand and Fog" who said he had a good working relationship with Mr. Parkes. "But other times, those people who have complained are wilting under the scrutiny of someone who is bright and creative."
 Supporters of DreamWorks say the recent criticism is just noise in the marketplace. The company said it has made 41 films (including partnerships) with a per-picture box-office average of $79 million. As a private company, it is not beholden to public shareholders who judge performance by a daily share price or quarterly returns. "It's an unusual set up, but it seems to work for them," said James Wiatt, president of the William Morris Agency. "It's their money and their philosophy."
 By reputation, Mr. Spielberg and Mr. Parkes would rather make movies they love even if that means making fewer of them. For better or worse, supporters say, it is a form of control not often exercised at large companies.
 "If you only make movies when you truly fall in love, you can only fall in love so many times a year," Mr. London said. "The challenge is can anyone fall in love enough times to really fill a slate?"
 Eager to put this year behind them, executives at DreamWorks have begun touting next year's offerings. 
 Billboards in Los Angeles promoting next summer's "Shrek 2" have been up for more than six months. Recently, a small group of journalists were bused out to the set of "The Terminal." 
 And in October, the studio held a poolside party at the W hotel in Westwood with the young stars of "Win a Date with Tad Hamilton!," five months before the film's scheduled release in March. And not to be forgotten during the holiday film festivities, early screenings of "Tad Hamilton" begin this week.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DreamWorks needs "House of Sand and Fog," starring Jennifer Connelly, left, to be a box office success. The studio's "Biker Boyz," center, was an underperformer this year. "Old School," starring Will Ferrell, took in $75 million. (Photos by DreamWorks Pictures)(pg. C1); Laurie MacDonald and Walter F. Parkes share responsibility for picking films. (Photo by DreamWorks Pictures)(pg. C9) Chart: "Hit or Miss"Because DreamWorks produces relatively few movies each year, it is heavily dependent on having at least one hit. It has not had one yet in 2003, the studio's poorest year at the box office since 1997, when it started releasing films. Graph tracks total box-office sales in United States and Canada for studio's movies released each year (from 1997-2003*). *Excluding "House of Sand and Fog," to be released on Friday (Source by Nielsen EDI)(pg. C1) Chart: "Annual Review"DreamWorks has been known for big hits like "Saving Private Ryan" and "Shrek." Without a similar hit so far this year, though, the average revenue for each of the company's releases is the lowest it has ever been. YEAR: 1997FILMS RELEASED: 3AVERAGE REVENUE (U.S. and Canada, in millions): $49.1TOP FILM: The Mouse HuntBox-office sales for top film: $61.9 million YEAR: 1998FILMS RELEASED: 5AVERAGE REVENUE (U.S. and Canada, in millions): 97.9TOP FILM: Saving Private RyanBox-office sales for top film: 216.2 YEAR: 1999FILMS RELEASED: 6AVERAGE REVENUE (U.S. and Canada, in millions): 61.0TOP FILM: American BeautyBox-office sales for top film: 130.1 YEAR: 2000FILMS RELEASED: 10AVERAGE REVENUE (U.S. and Canada, in millions): 66.8TOP FILM: GladiatorBox-office sales for top film: 187.7 YEAR: 2001FILMS RELEASED: 5AVERAGE REVENUE (U.S. and Canada, in millions): 79.7TOP FILM: ShrekBox-office sales for top film: 267.7 YEAR: 2002FILMS RELEASED: 7AVERAGE REVENUE (U.S. and Canada, in millions): 83.2TOP FILM: Catch Me if You CanBox-office sales for top film: 164.5 YEAR: 2003*FILMS RELEASED: 5AVERAGE REVENUE (U.S. and Canada, in millions): 32.8TOP FILM: Old SchoolBox-office sales for top film: 74.7 Excluding "House of Sand and Fog," to be released on Friday (Source by Nielsen EDI)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVENUES (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RECORD REVENUES (75%); ANIMATION (72%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%) MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (85%); VIVENDI (81%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DREAMWORKS SKG 

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (85%); VIV (PAR) (81%); VIV (BIT) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (57%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (57%); PAUL ALLEN (57%); DAVID GEFFEN (57%) DE LUCA, MICHAEL; PARKES, WALTER; HOLSON, LAURA M 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%)

TITLE: HOUSE OF SAND AND FOG (MOVIE)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



398 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Phone Service Over Internet Revives Talk Of Regulation 

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
Politicians have worked hard to keep access to Internet connections and many forms of Internet communication free from regulation and taxation. But the debate over how government treats the Internet is likely to reach a new level of intensity now that Internet technology is colliding with one of the nation's most lucrative businesses, telephone service. 
 Last week AT&T and Time Warner Cable announced that they intended to make Internet-based phone service available to millions of consumers next year, allowing those consumers to bypass traditional phone companies. Those moves signaled the start of a technological shift that could change one of the biggest and most important industries in the American economy. Central to that shift is whether and how Internet phone service should be regulated, a question that the Federal Communications Commission started to explore in hearings two weeks ago. 
 In an interview on Thursday, Michael K. Powell, the chairman of the F.C.C., said he had not made up his mind on that question. But he was not at all shy about stating his preliminary view -- that Internet-based calls are fundamentally different from traditional phone calls and ought to be regulated cautiously, if at all.
 "There is no functional or technical difference between an Internet phone call and other data -- be it bits, or e-mail or Web pages," Mr. Powell said, during a visit to San Francisco. Up to now, Internet traffic has been essentially unregulated and untaxed because many politicians and regulators have argued that the technology and online commerce would grow more quickly if the Internet were left alone.
 Mr. Powell noted that while Internet-based calls might serve the same function as calls over conventional phone lines, the underlying technology was different enough that it would not make sense to subject them to "100 years of judgments" and regulations. "Let's get this thing right and define it as truer to its real nature," he said, referring to the new technology.
 His views are far from universally supported, given the many complex political and financial interests at stake. 
 What is clear is that the existing telephone infrastructure is heavily regulated, on both the state and federal levels, with intricate rules intended to keep phone access universally accessible and affordable. 
 Gene Kimmelman, the senior director for public policy at Consumers Union, said those regulations existed to satisfy important public policy concerns. He contended that goals like universal access would be gravely threatened if the world went to Internet-based services that were unregulated. 
 Mr. Kimmelman said that Mr. Powell's views, which seem to argue for far less regulation, would undo "social policy that has made phone service affordable and accessible." He added that one possible result was that basic connections which, under the regulatory structure were essentially subsidized by consumers and the industry, could cost significantly more than they did now. 
 Besides, he argued, function, rather than technology, should guide the regulatory decision. "It looks, smells, feels like plain old telephone service," he said of Internet service, and therefore it should be treated similarly. 
 This debate -- the latest front in a 20-year-old regulatory battle that started with the breakup of the Bell system -- will define the grounds on which various players in telecommunications compete. The question of how to regulate Internet-based calling will be "the communications regulatory issue over the next few years," said Eric Rabe, a spokesman for Verizon, with audible emphasis on the word "the."
 For starters, regulators will have to address some central technical questions. Telephone calls are traditionally carried to and from homes on copper lines, with routing of the traffic using circuit switch technology. Internet phone service digitizes voice signals and sends them as Internet data.
 Mr. Kimmelman argues that even with Internet-based service, the voice signals are still sent over existing communications networks, whether copper wires, coaxial cable or fiber optic lines. And he maintains that there is nothing sacrosanct about the mere fact that the signals are sent as Internet traffic.
 "It's just a different way of assembling ones and zeroes so they can be more efficiently transmitted," Mr. Kimmelman said, noting that Internet calls would still have to travel through traditional phone wires through part of their journey.
 Mr. Powell, however, maintains that what is important is not the wires but the technology involved. And, he pointed out, consumers who want to use Internet phones would still have to pay phone and cable companies to get Internet access through those networks, and in doing so, would still be supporting the basic telecommunications infrastructure. 
 "You pay Verizon $39.95" for high-speed access to the Internet, Mr. Powell said. He argued that once consumers have paid for that access, the providers should not necessarily be paid more for the use of that access to send particular communications, whether in the form of e-mail messages or phone calls. 
 Telephone and cable companies are staking out different positions, and other members of the F.C.C. may not share Mr. Powell's views. 
 The phone companies naturally are not eager to compete against Internet-based competitors who can avoid the huge costs of regulation. But some, like Verizon, also say that the solution is not to regulate Internet calling, but to deregulate the phone industry. 
 SBC, another major telephone provider, said it thinks it could compete against unregulated Internet-based services. The reason, said Dorothy Attwood, senior vice president for federal regulatory strategy at SBC, is that phone companies have a head start on features important to consumers like 911 service and the ability to make calls even when the power fails. 
 The cable companies have their own perspective on regulation. Atlanta-based Cox Communications, for instance, contends that regulation should be based, not on the technology used, but on the market share of a company, with larger companies subject to more regulations.
 Cox, which already offers phone service based on circuit switch technology to nearly one million customers, will start Internet-based phone service in Roanoke, Va., today. But it does not expect the regulatory questions to be answered soon.
 "It will be four to five years," said Carrington Phillip, vice president for regulatory affairs at Cox Communications, "before we have a good sense of how regulation is going to evolve." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (95%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CONSUMER PROTECTION 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%) AT&T CORP; TIME WARNER INC; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION; CONSUMERS UNION 

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%)

PERSON: POWELL, MICHAEL K (CHMN); KIMMELMAN, GENE; RICHTEL, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



399 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Regulators Completing Settlement With Alliance
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York attorney general's office are working out the final details of a settlement with Alliance Capital over improper trading in its mutual funds, senior people briefed on the negotiations said.
 The settlement could include a payment of as much as $250 million, some of which would go toward reimbursing investors harmed by the trading, these people said. It would also require Alliance to make certain governance changes in its funds. Page C2. 

Viacom's Blockbuster Problem
While Viacom has been talking with private equity firms about a possible sale of its 80 percent stake in Blockbuster, several people close to the company have said that no deal is imminent. At current stock levels, the market price for all of Blockbuster would be $3.5 billion -- about $3.2 billion in equity, with the balance in debt. Based on that valuation, a sale would bring about $2.5 billion in cash for Viacom. But that would generate less than the amount that Blockbuster is producing in earnings. As a result, Viacom's cash flow per share would fall, perhaps making its shares look too costly. Market Place. C9.

Black to Meet With S.E.C.
Conrad Black, the embattled chairman of the media company Hollinger International, will have his first interview with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Dec. 22 regarding questions over fees paid to him and his chief lieutenants. C2.

Some E-Tailers Struggle to Keep Up
So far in the holiday shopping season, a handful of the most popular online merchants have struggled to keep up with a stampede of traffic, according to a report by Keynote Systems, which tracks Web site performance. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C8.

A Network Needs a Bicycle
A teacher and his class at the Parsons School of Design have rigged bicycles with off-the-shelf networking gear, turning them into free wireless Internet access points using Wi-Fi technology. The bikes can connect to and amplify the signals of Wi-Fi transmitters, or they can tap into a cellular data network, allowing Internet access in places like subways. C4.

Chip Technology Resists Radiation
Researchers at an STMicroelectronics laboratory in France have developed a semiconductor memory technology that is immune to "soft errors" caused by background radiation, potentially eliminating an important barrier to shrinking the size of computer chips. C2.

U.S. Turns to India for Research
At an Intel plant in Bangalore, India, Ajith Prasad and 20 other engineers are designing and developing chips that they hope will power new types of high-speed broadband wireless technology. They are part of India's low-cost, deep pool of well-educated technical talent, a big draw for United States companies, which are increasing their reliance on research-and-development operations in India. C4.

An Appeal to Vote, but Verify
As the market for computerized voting equipment has intensified, critics have emerged, leading to demands that the new machines allow voters to verify their votes with a paper receipt or another method. New Economy. C4.

U.N. Meeting Calls for Study
Delegates to the United Nations conference on the Internet agreed that a group should be set up to examine whether to introduce more international oversight of the Internet's semiformal administrative bodies. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,042.16 up 179.48Nasdaq composite -- 1,949.00 up 11.1810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.24% up 0.01The euro -- $1.2288 up 0.0122The dollar -- 107.68 yen up 0.03

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (88%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); INTERNET RETAILING (86%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (85%); MICROPROCESSORS (84%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (84%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); DIVESTITURES (74%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (74%); CASH FLOW (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (69%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (65%); BROADBAND (64%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BB LIQUIDATING INC (92%); VIACOM INC (90%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (54%); KEYNOTE SYSTEMS INC (53%); INTEL CORP (53%); STMICROELECTRONICS NV (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (85%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (90%); KEYN (NASDAQ) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); STM (PAR) (52%); STM (NYSE) (52%); STM (BIT) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (92%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (53%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (53%); SIC2141 TOBACCO STEMMING & REDRYING (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



400 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: For a Small Kingdom, a Visual History in aBig Book 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the small Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan are worlds apart geographically, culturally and technologically. For decades, M.I.T. has turned out engineers whose labors have helped fuel America's high-tech economy, while Bhutan, a remote land of Shangri-la vistas and exotic species, has pursued an economic plan whose stated goal is "gross national happiness."
 Yet these two disparate worlds have touched in a research project that has produced a bit of publishing history, "Bhutan: A Visual Odyssey Across the Himalayan Kingdom," the largest commercial book ever published, according to Guinness World Records. 
 "Bhutan," to be released today, is five feet high, opens to nearly seven feet wide, and weighs more than 130 pounds. A picture book of 114 pages, it pushes the technological frontiers of digital photography and computer printing. 
 Each book uses a roll of paper 5 feet wide and 400 feet long, a third longer than a football field. Each copy consumes two gallons of ink and takes 24 hours of printer time.
 The big book is also a philanthropic endeavor. The plan is to print 500 copies of the book, with a price of $10,000 each. Each book costs about $1,000 to produce; the remaining $9,000 will be a tax-deductible charitable contribution. The proceeds will go to the Bhutan ministry of education and into a scholarship fund to send Bhutanese students to college abroad.
 The Bhutan book project can be seen as an act of engineering performance art, and the mastermind behind it is a 42-year-old computer scientist of a decidedly artistic bent, Michael Hawley. He is the director for special projects at M.I.T., but for a decade until 2002 Mr. Hawley was a professor at the M.I.T. Media Lab, heading imaginative research programs like "Toys of Tomorrow" and "Things That Think."
 Before M.I.T., Mr. Hawley worked at the pioneering computer graphics arm of Lucasfilm, which was spun off to eventually become Pixar Animation Studios. He then joined Steven P. Jobs at NeXT, the technically celebrated, if commercially unsuccessful, maker of graphics work-station computers. His research interests range widely across fields and disciplines touched by digital technology, including education, photography and music. An accomplished pianist, he won the Van Cliburn amateur competition in 2002. His home -- a loft in a converted church here -- has two pianos, including a Steinway grand.
 Beyond technology and philanthropy, the book project represents an expeditionary approach to education that Mr. Hawley says he wants to expand at M.I.T. The idea, he explains, is to take students to see new places, meet people from other cultures and use technology in the field. The Bhutan book is a byproduct of four such trips from 1988 to 2002, each involving a few M.I.T. students.
 "What I'm pushing at M.I.T. is that the world is our lab, not just the campus," Mr. Hawley said. "These kinds of trips can be life-altering for the people who take them. We learn from differences."
 Charles Darwin is Mr. Hawley's favorite proof of the value of educational expeditions. At 22, Darwin seemed headed for the clergy after graduating from Cambridge University. But he balked, took a round-the-world voyage, and came back to present his theory of evolution in, "The Origin of Species." Without the expeditionary adventure, Mr. Hawley said, "He would have ended up Pastor Charles Darwin, creationist."
 Ming Zhang, a 22-year-old graduate of M.I.T., went on one of Mr. Hawley's Bhutan trips in 2002. When Mr. Hawley first asked him, Mr. Zhang replied with a question, "Where's Bhutan?" Mr. Hawley explained that the kingdom is high in the Himalayas, bordered by India and Tibet. It is a nation the size of Switzerland, but with a small fraction of the population, nearly all living in rural villages. 
 Mr. Zhang's family moved to Boston from Wuhan, China, when he was 8 years old. His parents are professors at Harvard University and Boston University, and Mr. Zhang has lived in sizable cities all his life. "Bhutan was just completely what I wasn't used to," he said.
 Mr. Zhang recalled looking out the van window while on the two-lane highway that connects Bhutan's larger towns, seeing nothing but a sheer drop, and wondering if going along with Mr. Hawley was such a good idea. But he also recalled the extraordinary natural beauty, and the serenity of a culture of close-knit villages.
 Evenings were spent downloading photographs from cameras into notebook computers and assembling a database of 40,000 photos, all sorted by location using global positioning system, or G.P.S., technology. A lot of programming was done on the road. There were no help desks or textbooks to consult, and Internet connections were scarce. "Nothing really matches making technology work in the field," Mr. Zhang said.
 The technical challenges of producing the book were many. To make such large pictures print crisply and clearly requires densely packed image files of about two gigabytes, which strain the capacity of today's software and printers. Pushing the limits of every element of the hardware and software technology at once meant constant tweaking and debugging.
 Recently, as he tried to revive a crashed printer, Mr. Hawley wondered if the project was folly. "But I've always felt that any interesting endeavor should have a daft quality to it. You ought to aim high."
 Mr. Hawley's most impressive achievement in the Bhutan book, according to colleagues, has been in engineering the entire project, not only the technology but other elements as well. He taught Bhutanese children how to take pictures with professional cameras and explained the technology to them. Some of their photographs appear in the book. He came up with the fund-raising idea and rounded up support from several technology companies.
 "The true creativity is in marshalling it all, bringing everything together in ways that might never have been dreamed of," said David Salesin, a professor at the University of Washington and a senior researcher at Microsoft.
 Mr. Hawley has proved to be an engaging salesman for the Bhutan book. Seed money for the project came from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, M.I.T. and Microsoft. Corporate sponsors who contributed equipment, shipping or technical support include Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, Amazon, Federal Express, Apple, Kodak, Adobe and Dell.
 Mr. Hawley makes the calls for corporate support himself. When he called Jeffrey P. Bezos, the chief executive of Amazon, Mr. Hawley told him the Bhutan project gave him an opportunity to be the world's largest book seller, literally. "Jeff loved it," Mr. Hawley recalled. 
 Persuading a bookbinder to take on the project took some work as well. Mr. Hawley was fortunate in finding Acme Bookbinding in nearby Charlestown, Mass. Acme is a company with a long history of custom work. When Mr. Hawley first came in, Paul Parisi, Acme's president, recalled, "We looked at it and said, 'Mike, you're crazy."'
 But the more Mr. Parisi thought about it, the more intrigued he became, and Acme took on the job. The binding was an innovative design combining Japanese and European techniques, new materials and hand craftsmanship. Each book takes two people with long arms about two days to assemble. 
 The challenge lies in ensuring durability in a book of so great a size and weight. "The danger is that the book fights itself," Mr. Parisi said. "The hinges and structure had to be designed so the book finds its own center. It's like a huge, intricate machine."
Will there be a sequel to "Bhutan"? It depends, Mr. Hawley said. "After this," he said, "we may have saturated the market for huge books."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day last Monday about a large-format book on Bhutan produced by a computer scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology omitted a credit. The photographer was Jodie Hilton for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Hawley, a computer scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, with his monumental photographic study of Bhutan, the small Himalayan kingdom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (86%); ENGINEERING (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); LITERATURE (75%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (74%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); AMATEUR SPORTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); ANIMATION (68%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (68%); CHARITABLE GIVING (66%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (65%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (65%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (65%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FOREIGN STUDY, TEACHING AND TRAVEL; PHILANTHROPY; PHOTOGRAPHY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRINTING AND ALLIED TRADES; TAX DEDUCTIONS

COMPANY: PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (94%) MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (52%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (52%) HAWLEY, MICHAEL; LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) BHUTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) BHUTAN; 

TITLE: BHUTAN: A VISUAL ODYSSEY ACROSS THE HIMALAYAN KINGDOM (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 

 
