

601 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Deals To Flip Over

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
When word got out last spring that a 23-story building on Fifth Avenue and 44th Street in Midtown Manhattan was about to change hands for the second time in less than a year, some real estate specialists said that the $420 million price was too high. 
 The buyer of the property, Scott J. Lawlor, the chief executive of Broadway Partners of New York, has heard that kind of talk repeatedly during his company's six-year existence.
 After all, it was only last July when J. P. Morgan Chase, the longtime owner of the building, 522 Fifth Avenue, sold it for $165 million to Stellar Management, of New York, and the Rockpoint Group, the team that had bought the land under the building for $53 million from multiple owners the year before. J. P. Morgan Chase had occupied all 575,000 square feet of the building but was planning to move out. 
 Initially, the skepticism seemed justified, especially after a couple of financial institutions turned down the chance to take space in the building, which has a deep portico with large chandeliers. Then in June, just as the sale transaction was closing, Broadway Partners signed a long-term lease with Morgan Stanley for the entire building. According to brokers who did not participate in the deal, the rent is about $83 a square foot -- more than enough to justify Broadway's investment.
 Now Broadway is selling the building again, most likely to Morgan Stanley, which has an option to buy it for about $468 million. Another potential buyer could be an institution or company looking for a safe investment with a steady income stream, brokers said.
 That sort of risk-free investing has not been part of Mr. Lawlor's business model. Rather he is typical of a breed of real estate investors who have profited handsomely in recent years by buying important buildings and holding them for only a short time. Since its inception, Broadway has sold or is in contract to sell 13 buildings it has held for an average of 2 1/2 years, Mr. Lawlor said. Its annual returns have averaged more than 38 percent, he said. 
 ''We have a very strict discipline we try to bring to bear about sales,'' Mr. Lawlor said. Once the building's income has increased, the company's job is done, he explained. ''We never track assets under management as a measurement of growth,'' he said. ''It's, 'How are we performing and are we continuing to find new assets?' ''
 Low interest rates and an unreliable stock market have resulted in a huge flood of capital to commercial real estate, stimulating competition for choice deals, driving up prices and making it possible for risk-takers to earn huge profits quickly. Until recently, building prices continued to rise because of a phenomenon known as cap rate compression. In part because capital was cheap, buyers were willing to accept an ever-declining initial rate of return, which is known as the capitalization rate. 
 Buyers have often been able to meet their investment objectives ahead of schedule without spending additional money to spruce up their buildings, said Robert M. White Jr., the president of Real Capital Analytics, a New York research firm that tracks sales valued at $5 million or more.
 In the past, Mr. White said, most buyers would evaluate the potential cash flow for a particular building over a 10-year period. Insurance companies often used 30-year projections, he said.
 ''Investors have greatly shortened their time horizons now,'' Mr. White said. 
 Flipping, the practice of reselling real estate quickly, has been occurring in all commercial property sectors, but Mr. White said the trend was most pronounced among office buildings. Nationally, of those sold so far this year, 40 percent were acquired within the previous five years, and 13 percent were held for less than two years, he said. 
 In July, for example, Equity Office Properties, a real estate investment trust, bought the office portion of the Bertlesmann Building at 1540 Broadway for $525.1 million from a seller that had acquired the building in June 2004 for $425.8 million. 
 In Boston, Beacon Capital Partners bought a 34-story tower at One Beacon Street in June for $425 million from a group of private investors that had paid $340 million for it in October 2004.
 Though commercial real estate is not experiencing a downturn like the housing market, there are signs that the heady times are over. Some real estate specialists say this means that investors will have to begin behaving more like traditional landlords, working harder to make their buildings more attractive and developing long-term relationships with tenants.
 Evan F. Denner, the deputy chief executive of the Hypo Real Estate Capital Corporation, said he was worried that some buyers were making overly optimistic projections that could land them in trouble. ''We've seen deals where the projected cash flow is barely sufficient to cover the debt service -- or does not cover the debt service and can only cover it at rental levels that have never been achieved,'' he said.
 Only six years ago, Broadway Partners, then based in Greenwich, Conn., was playing for much smaller stakes. In August 2000, the company made its first real estate purchase, teaming up with an investment fund, the RiverOak Investment Corporation, to buy a former school building in Hartsdale, N.Y., for $4.8 million, and selling it in May 2003 for $5.1 million.
 Since then, Broadway has bought or is in contract to buy nearly $3 billion worth of real estate, mostly in very strong markets. Out of every hundred office buildings the company considers, it buys only one, said Mr. Lawlor, who has worked in a variety of real estate jobs, including brokerage and asset management.
 In March 2003, the company raised its profile by buying Washington Harbour, a 537,000-square-foot office, retail and condominium complex in Georgetown for $185 million --$30 million more than the seller had paid in November 2001. 
 Critics said Mr. Lawlor had overpaid, but he insisted that he would add value to the complex by improving its lackluster retail space. But when a law firm, Foley & Lardner, renewed its lease early and added new space, Mr. Lawlor reached his investment target without doing any renovations. So less than two years after acquiring the building, Broadway sold it to Prudential Real Estate Investors for $220 million.
 ''I can hit a three-run homer, or I can roll the dice and get a grand slam in a few months,'' he said, explaining his timing. 
 Not long afterward, Mr. Lawlor moved his headquarters to the Seagram Building on Park Avenue, signaling his intention to become a player in Manhattan. But it was only after more than a dozen unsuccessful bids that he bought his first Manhattan office building, 660 Madison Avenue, in May, for $216.5 million. In this case, Mr. Lawlor said, he will definitely make physical improvements to the building. With an updated lobby and better services, he said, annual asking rents on higher floors could match those at the General Motors building.
 ''My single biggest regret is that I took too conservative a view with respect to Midtown Manhattan leasing market,'' he said. ''I left a lot on the table.''
 By the time 522 Fifth Avenue came on the market, however, Mr. Lawlor had shed any inhibitions he had about the market. He was able to anticipate that large chunks of space were becoming scarce, and that rents were skyrocketing. ''We thought we could lease it faster and at higher rents than many other people thought was possible,'' he said. ''We took a leap and within a couple of weeks, we got it sorted out.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Scott J. Lawlor, left, paid $420 million for 522 Fifth Avenue last spring and hopes to sell it for $468 million or more
1540 Broadway, above, sold in July for $99 million more than it cost in 2004. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Broadway Partners

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Scott J Lawlor; Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006



602 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2187 words

HEADLINE: The Cheap Fix

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA LANGE

 BODY:
AFTER three years as the editor in chief of Dwell, a shelter magazine based in San Francisco, Karrie Jacobs had had enough. Homesick for New York and frustrated with the editorial direction of the magazine she had helped to launch, she decided it was time to make a new life for herself. For Ms. Jacobs, that meant finding a place that felt like home. In her post-Dwell career as a freelance writer she did not have the deep pockets of her subjects. But as an architecture critic she could not buy just any old house. 
 Her book, ''The Perfect $100,000 House,'' published last week by Viking, chronicles her 14,000-mile road trip in the summer of 2003, the year after she left the magazine, in search of an architect who could deliver the stylish, custom-made house of her dreams for what she considered a reasonable price: $100 a square foot. That figure was more a rough estimate based on instinct than a reality based on hard numbers. (Last year the median size of a new American home, according to the Census Bureau, was 2,200 square feet, and the median single-family house price, according to the National Association of Realtors, was $219,000. Although no one with a passion for numbers would decide that the median home thus cost $100 a square foot, that number sufficed to make her point when it came to writing the book.)
 Her must-haves differed slightly from those of the average American. ''Most houses offer an abundance of square footage, which I don't especially need,'' she said. At 1,000 square feet, she calculated, her house should cost only $100,000 and be big enough for a single woman. 
 She found options worthy of serious consideration in a handful of cities, including Crestone, Colo.; Perryville, Mo.; and Troy, N.Y., but not in design centers like Manhattan and San Francisco. To even look at New York, where she had lived for most of her adult life, ''seemed tragically pointless,'' she said. 
 Tell a New York City architect you are seeking the local equivalent of the perfect $100,000 house and you will receive one universal response (after a snort of laughter): ''You mean the perfect million-dollar house?'' Even after ignoring the price of land, as Ms. Jacobs did to get around some of the regional differences in the real estate market (although the national figure she used as a benchmark did include the price of land), building in New York costs more than almost anywhere else in the country because of higher labor and material costs.
 So what is the least one can hope to pay for the New York equivalent of building a modern house -- gut renovating the interior of a town house, building out a raw loft, transforming a commercial space into a home? In a search that excluded the price of real estate and instead focused, as Ms. Jacobs's book did, on finding spaces that could be made modern, stylish and filled with light despite a low renovation budget, six encouraging examples emerged. These are places so nice that you would never know their owners spent a fraction of the average renovation cost in the New York metropolitan area, a figure that is now about $250 a square foot, according to local contractors interviewed for this article. Places so nice that the architects were hesitant to talk about them. (''I have colleagues who have quoted numbers like that,'' said Reuben Jorsling of Face Design, based in Brooklyn. ''People call and basically want a house for free.'') 
 As for Ms. Jacobs, she continues to search for her dream house. ''One of the things I learned while doing Dwell was that my roots count for something,'' she said. And that meant New York, where she had lived for 16 years and which still felt like home. ''I have the perfect $225,000 studio,'' she said, in downtown Brooklyn. It is 550 square feet.

$67 A SQUARE FOOT

Maria Mackin, a real estate agent, and her husband, Declan Walsh, the director of student activities and campus life at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, bought their house in Red Hook, Brooklyn, as a rental property in 1998. In 2003, when the tenants on the lower two floors moved out, they and their three children moved in, and Ms. Mackin began remodeling the 1,050-square-foot first floor, trying to schedule the dirty work for July, when her children were at camp. She served as designer, construction manager and gofer, keeping costs down by coordinating the work and putting money into specific finishes, leaving other aspects of the space, a former A.&P. supermarket, as is.
 In the kitchen, Mr. Walsh and a friend who is a cabinetmaker added inexpensive Formica doors and quirky pulls from the Knobbery in Brooklyn to cabinet boxes from Home Depot. The glass-front refrigerator is from Roger & Sons, a restaurant supply store on the Bowery.
 Ms. Mackin splurged on the kitchen backsplash. She never disclosed the sum to her husband, saying only that it cost between $5,000 and $10,000. 
 Cindy Rose-Kadet of Rose Interiors, a friend of hers, designed the glass-and-mirror strips and the pictures of chickens made from pieces of broken plates; Cheryl Hazan, a mosaicist, did the work. The blue eggs aren't a flight of fancy. Ms. Mackin raises Araucana chickens, which lay eggs of that hue.

$100 A SQUARE FOOT

Without the deep pockets of some of their neighbors, Andrew Barrett, a director in Citigroup's investment research department, and his wife, Dana, a winemaker for Kendall-Jackson Wine Estates, still got a picture-perfect TriBeCa North condo: open floor plan, paneled bamboo walls, custom kitchen, even programmable L.E.D. lightboxes around the rooms. The Barretts live at the Greenwich Street Project, a glass-front condominium where the units are sold as basic white boxes with minimal bathrooms and kitchens. On the recommendation of their broker, they hired Eric Liftin of MESH Architectures, who has made something of a specialty of the low-cost, high-style loft.
 According to Mr. Liftin, the important thing was keeping decor simple. The wall that divides the master bed and bath from the public area was built out of Teragren bamboo plywood, which was also used for the kitchen cabinets; it costs $250 a panel, is sustainable and has an edge that can be exposed without further treatment. Mr. Barrett bought their high-end (Sub-Zero, Miele) appliances himself from a store in northern New Jersey rather than a Manhattan showroom. Because they weren't picky about getting the latest model cooktop and wall oven, he shaved thousands off the $15,000 they had budgeted.
 Each chose a few nonnegotiable items at the outset. Mrs. Barrett insisted on a wine fridge. Mr. Barrett fell in love with Mr. Liftin's lightboxes. They added $5,000 to the cost, but ''small extravagances,'' Mr. Liftin said, ''make the whole feel more luxurious.''

$100 A SQUARE FOOT

The architect Joel Sanders does not usually do low-budget work. But for JoAnn Mina Franjola, the manager of the textile design department for the Limited, and her husband, Matthew, a waiter, he made an exception, he said, because they ''seduced and charmed'' him. ''When they disclosed their budget, our initial reaction was that it seemed like it would be a major challenge,'' Mr. Sanders said. ''But after deliberating, we couldn't say no.''
 The Franjolas had planned to renovate two floors of their three-story semidetached house (the top floor is a rental) in Astoria, Queens, but settled for starting small, with a lower-level master suite and bath and a new staircase, which became the centerpiece of the plan. 
 Mr. Sanders widened the stairs and added a glass partition on one side to bring light downstairs. The stair treads are walnut, to link the upstairs, where the Franjolas had installed Brazilian walnut, to the lower level. They economized by installing oak downstairs, staining it to match the walnut. Mr. Sanders made a series of substitutions: sage-colored, fabric-covered doors made by Home Works in SoHo to hide the dressing room rather than a wall of walnut paneling, and in the bathroom, Kohler faucets instead of Dornbracht. 
 He has planned the second phase, which will involve renovating their not-so-modern kitchen and upstairs bath at about the same cost. There, he will try to keep the budget down by using Corian countertops and white lacquer Ikea cabinets, which ''are so nice and simple,'' he said, ''we often use them even on higher-end jobs.''

$150 A SQUARE FOOT

In 2005, after their longtime tenant moved out, Tom Yohe, an art director at an advertising agency, and his wife, Brigitte, a stay-at-home mother, decided to renovate their Park Slope town house.
 Mr. Yohe's brother, Jim, a partner in the architecture firm LOCALbrookyn who was supervising the renovation, advised his brother to rewire, skim-coat and paint the rooms on the second and third floors, which had intact architectural detail. They saved most of their budget for remaking the ground floor as a kitchen and playroom and updating the bathrooms. 
 To bring more daylight into the space, the architects replaced the load-bearing wall along the stairs with thick reclaimed timbers, which was less expensive than putting in an engineered beam. Jim Yohe designed an elaborate set of sliding doors, fitted with translucent acrylic panels, to close off the dining area. 
 In the kitchen, he said, ''we decided right from the beginning to use Ikea cabinets.'' The counters are absolute black granite, one of the least expensive types of stone, honed to look like slate. The Yohes added a back-painted frosted glass backsplash, which cost about the same as tile after installation.
 The Yohes splurged on appliances, but shopped around for the best prices. Their counter-depth fridge is a Liebherr and their stove is a DeLonghi, with an extra half-oven. They found the vintage marble mantelpiece for the parlor at Olde Good Things, and rather than using European designer radiators, they enclosed cheap new models in plywood boxes made on-site by Tatra Contracting. 

$167 A SQUARE FOOT

Keisha Martin, a senior marketing executive on Wall Street, knew exactly what she wanted in a home: natural light, a working fireplace, outdoor space and a large closet. When she bought her town house in central Harlem four years ago, it came with two of those things -- light and the outdoors -- but only because, behind the facade, all four stories had caved in beneath a huge hole in the roof.
 Given her budget, Ms. Martin had to abandon her dream of a ground-floor rental unit, which would have involved pushing out the back of the 16-by-50-foot house, and the parlor-level deck she wanted on top. She did get three working fireplaces, though two are Rais fireboxes, with narrower and less costly flues than those in regular fireplaces. 
 To keep costs under control her architects, Laura Briggs and Jonathan Knowles of BriggsKnowles, used high-end materials in a few places and lots of clean white paint -- to reflect light -- elsewhere. They left the staircase in its original position, reused most window openings and stacked all the plumbing. 
 The curved walls on the parlor floor and the dramatic scoops around the expansive rooftop skylight were plastered by the contractor, TMC Teamwork. The contractor also brought in an expert metalworker to weld the two-story white-steel balustrade on site, saving a lot of money. Wood-frame sliding doors in the living room were also custom-made; so were laminated bamboo cabinets in the kitchen, which turned out to be cheaper than premade components.

$180 A SQUARE FOOT

According to Matthew Baird, an architect and principal of Matthew Baird Design, to achieve a budget of under $200 a square foot you have to be careful about every choice. Mr. Baird supervised the gut renovation of the former Trilogy Photo and its basement in TriBeCa for Randolph Randolph, a director at Merrill Lynch, and his wife, Susan, a private art adviser, in 2004. To keep costs down, 15-foot wooden windows, the building's originals, were refinished rather than replaced; the oak floor was given a dark stain to make it look more upscale; the Randolphs bought a top-of-the-line Amana refrigerator, not a Sub-Zero, for a savings of nearly $2,500. The cabinets were custom-made, but Mr. Baird chose $5 pulls from Canadian Builders Products, instead of more costly ones.
 ''The other thing we did was to concentrate the expenditure on three specific areas,'' Mr. Baird said. The Randolphs got an imported limestone counter and backsplash in the kitchen; Kohler Tea for Two tubs and a 14-foot window in the master bath; and -- the most expensive feature -- a custom steel-and-acrylic staircase that brings light from the ground level into the basement.
 When they sold the apartment last year, the couple who bought it, Lesley and Brian Sondey, decided to make a few ''upgrades,'' with Mr. Baird's assistance. Mrs. Sondey, who loves to cook, wanted a stove with a big hood, and as for the refrigerator, she said, ''they didn't think a Sub-Zero was necessary, but it works for me.'' The lacquered plywood cabinetwork in the kitchen is another place Mrs. Sondey might have spent more. ''Already some of the cabinets are starting to look shoddy,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: CUTTING CORNERS -- Although the average renovation in New York costs about $250 a square foot, savvy city dwellers find ways to do it for less. It cost about $167 a square foot to restore a Harlem town house, right, including a new skylight, above. In TriBeCa, top right and far right, the gut renovation of a loft came in at about $180 a square foot. (Top left and left, photographs by John Lei for The New York Times
top, Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times
above, Elizabeth Felicella)(pg. F1)
(Photographs by John Lei for The New York Times)
(Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
(Photographs by John Lei for The New York Times)
(Photographs by John Lei for The New York Times)
(Photographs by John Lei for The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Elizabeth Felicella)(pg. F5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); CENSUS (54%) Housing; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: Karrie Jacobs; Alexandra Lange

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



603 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Revision Lifts Pace Of Growth

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The economy grew more quickly in the second quarter than initially estimated and inflation was slightly lower, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
 While the revisions were largely in line with expectations, economists said the report was a welcome sign at a time of significant uncertainty about the economy's direction.
 ''Steady as she goes,'' said Brian Bethune of Global Insight, an economic and financial research company in Lexington, Mass. ''The economy is in reasonably good health.'' 
 The gross domestic product, adjusted for inflation, increased at an annual rate of 2.9 percent, up from an earlier estimate of 2.5 percent, while a closely watched measure of prices that excludes food and energy rose 2.8 percent, rather than 2.9 percent. But the growth rate for the economy still slowed sharply from the 5.6 percent pace of the first quarter.
 Stocks closed with modest gains for the day, though they fell after the release of the economic report in the morning before rallying in the afternoon.
 Perhaps the biggest surprise in yesterday's report was new evidence of a surge in wage-and-salary income in the first half of this year. Between the fourth quarter of last year and the second quarter of 2006, pay grew at an annual pace around 7 percent after adjusting for inflation, up from an earlier estimate of 4 percent, according to an economic consulting firm, MFR. 
 As a result, wages and salaries no longer make up the smallest share of the gross domestic product since World War II. They accounted for 46.1 percent of all economic output in the second quarter, down from a high of 53.6 percent in 1970 but up from 45.4 percent in the spring of 2005. 
 Total compensation -- including employee health benefits, which have risen in cost in recent years -- equaled 57.1 percent of the economy, down from 59.8 percent in 1970. Still, compensation makes up a larger share of the economy than it did through the 1950's and early 60's, as well as during parts of the mid-1990's and the last couple of years.
 Economists said this increase in income reduced the risk that the recent economic slowdown would turn into something more dangerous, because households might have more money to spend than earlier estimated.
 Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, said that much of the income increase probably went to people who work on Wall Street or for hedge funds. The biggest spike occurred in the first quarter, when financial companies typically pay bonuses. Other data, including Labor Department figures on wage growth and private-sector surveys on consumer confidence, suggested that most families were not receiving pay increases that outpaced inflation.
 ''If this were more widely spread around,'' Mr. Shapiro said, ''we would be seeing it in readings on confidence and sentiment. It tends to indicate this is pretty concentrated on the upper end.''
 Even concentrated income growth, however, may help the economy in coming months. Research by Federal Reserve economists suggests that upper-income households spend a larger share of their incomes than they once did.
 In the second quarter, consumer spending -- the bulk of economic activity -- grew at an annual pace of 2.6 percent, down from 4.8 percent in the first quarter and 3.5 percent in 2005.
 At the same time, one of the main drivers of the economy's recent growth now looks weaker than before. Home building and other residential investment fell even more quickly than the government said earlier -- at an annual pace of 9.8 percent.
 But that drop was offset by a 22 percent rise in construction spending by businesses. The value of goods stockpiled in company warehouses also grew more quickly than reported earlier, which helped lift growth but can be a worrisome sign for the future if it is not supported by healthy consumer spending.
 For the first time in a year, foreign trade helped lift overall growth as the value of imports rose just 0.6 percent while the value of exports grew 5.1 percent.
 With the housing market weakening, economic growth has slowed markedly this year, posing a greater challenge for the Fed in its effort to contain inflation without throwing the economy into a recession. Three weeks ago, the Fed held its benchmark interest rate steady at 5.25 percent; that was the first meeting since summer 2004 that did not include a rate increase.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Real Economic Growth''Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation.2nd Qtr. revisedTo: +2.9%From: +2.5Graph tracks annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product since 2002.(Source by Commerce Department)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Wages and Salaries; Consumer Behavior; Housing; Building (Construction); International Trade and World Market; United States Economy; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department; Mfr Inc

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



604 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Fill Up On Corn If You Can; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2078 words

HEADLINE: An Alternative Fuel Is Scarce, Even in the Farm Belt

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Ill. 

 BODY:
Standing next to his pickup truck at a service station here, Robert Beck squeezed a yellow nozzle and filled up with the corn-based fuel blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline that car companies, farmers and politicians alike love to promote as a way out of America's oil addiction.
 Mr. Beck, a bearded agronomist who travels throughout the Midwest, likes the idea of E-85, as the fuel blend is known, because it is made mostly from a domestic crop. But he still finds that buying the fuel is almost more trouble than it is worth.
''Everyone talks about it, but exactly where is it?'' he said. ''You have to have more fuel out there for consumers to buy.'' 
 That could take a while.
 To assess just how efforts to help E-85 catch on were going, a New York Times reporter, accompanied part of the time by a photographer, drove through the region where its popularity is greatest. They found that despite all the good will toward ethanol, success is far from assured.
 The fuel does have plenty of powerful supporters. General Motors used the Super Bowl this year to kick off its ''Live Green, Go Yellow'' campaign to encourage Americans to buy vehicles that can run on either E-85 or conventional gasoline. Ford Motor and VeraSun Energy, the second-largest ethanol producer after Archer Daniels Midland, christened 300 miles of highway from Chicago to St. Louis the ''Midwest Ethanol Corridor'' in a marketing campaign that began in June.
 But it also has plenty of drawbacks. Most oil companies want nothing to do with E-85, which they see as a money-losing alternative to their own petroleum-based products. Without help from the oil industry or a lot more flexible-fuel cars on the road, gasoline retailers are hesitant to install the expensive pumps, which can cost up to $200,000 with a new underground storage tank.
 ''There is no way E-85 can survive on its own without massive government subsidies at the state and federal levels,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, an energy consultancy in New York.
 Many drivers whose vehicles can run on ethanol will not buy E-85 unless it is markedly cheaper than regular gasoline, which has not always been the case. Part of the reason is basic economics: E-85 delivers only three-quarters as much energy per gallon as gasoline, meaning drivers will have to fill up their tanks more often if they choose to use the fuel.
 More than 850 service stations now carry E-85, an increase from 350 since the beginning of 2005, but the fuel is still unavailable at most of the 169,000 stations in the United States. Sales are so slim that some retailers count their regular E-85 customers on one hand. 
 Customers like Mr. Beck, who want the fuel, struggle to find it: in Illinois, 135 stations carry it, but in neighboring Missouri only 54 stations have E-85 pumps. Kansas has 13.
 None of this has discouraged E-85's supporters, who are relentlessly pushing to expand use of the fuel, which already benefits from a tax credit of 51 cents a gallon for producers of all forms of ethanol. 
 And in states like Illinois, the country's second-biggest corn producer, after Iowa, politicians are lining up state financing to subsidize the installation of pumps at service stations, while offering rebate incentives to customers who use the fuel.
 ''E-85 is really I-85 -- it's about energy independence,'' said Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, an energy consultancy.
 But that dream remains far out of reach. For one thing, E-85 barely exists outside the Corn Belt. You cannot fuel up on it in New York or New England. California has only one station.
 And even in Chicago, at the entrance to the ethanol corridor, it was hard to find a flexible-fuel car for the road trip. When Janet Conlon, a travel agent from Garber Travel, contacted four major rental car agencies, none said they had such cars available. 
 ''Nobody had a clue what I was talking about,'' Ms. Conlon said. The Times ended up renting a flexible-fuel Chevrolet Impala from a company affiliated with General Motors.
 At the first stop, Becker's Hotrod BP in Dwight, Ill., 75 miles south of Chicago, E-85 was selling for $2.70 a gallon, 50 cents cheaper than the station's regular unleaded.
 Four years ago, the Illinois Corn Growers Association approached Phillip E. Becker, the station's owner and a longtime gasoline retailer, with an offer to pay to install an E-85 pump, an investment of about $100,000. Because the alcohol in E-85 corrodes traditional gasoline storage tanks, a new underground one was necessary, along with special fuel lines and a special dispenser. 
 Mr. Becker, wanting to help local farmers, accepted the deal, agreeing to sell the E-85 at no profit for at least five years so he could offer it at a price lower than gasoline.
 ''I am selling this at cost as a good-will thing,'' Mr. Becker said. The E-85, he said, also helps bring passengers into his store for sodas and collectible toy cars, and into an adjoining Burger King, in which he has a business interest. But without the help of the growers' association, he said, he probably would not have made the investment.
 Mr. Becker has enjoyed the local celebrity his E-85 pump has brought him. Officials from the state of Illinois have even shot photos there for postcards that are placed in the vehicles of state employees, urging them to stop at Becker's.
 E-85 sales at his service station, though, have proved erratic. They rose as high as 9,000 gallons a month in September last year when gasoline prices climbed over $3 a gallon, widening the spread with ethanol prices. But in July, Becker's pumped only 3,010 gallons of E-85, after gasoline prices dropped and ethanol prices rose.
 Mr. Becker said he had ''four really good customers,'' two of them believing so strongly in E-85 that they traded in their vehicles for flexible-fuel ones. ''E-85 is all they burn, no matter what the price is,'' he said.
 The farmers continue to champion their project. In June, they parked a small 1940's-era corn wagon at a highway ramp near Mr. Becker's stations to advertise the E-85 price. General Motors included him in a recent regional promotion in which the company gave away $1,000 in free fuel -- E-85 or gasoline -- to purchasers of flexible-fuel vehicles.
 The three-month promotion, however, did not help overall sales at nearby Tyler Chevrolet/Buick, said Byron Moore, the new-car sales manager. At best, it may have caused some buyers already set on certain truck models to choose the flexible-fuel engine to grab the free fuel.
 But Mr. Moore said he doubted the buyers would actually fill up on E-85 very often, because ''the word is out'' that the fuel offered less mileage per gallon than gasoline. Ethanol is made up mostly of alcohol and yields less energy.
 Mr. Becker said he saw E-85 sales slip when the price got to within a dime of gasoline. Mr. Beck, the E-85 customer in Springfield, said he had decided that E-85 was worth buying for his Ford truck only if the price was at least 30 cents lower than gasoline.
 Volatile ethanol prices in recent months, driven by a regulatory change that has led to its increased use as a 10 percent additive in more states, have stymied the goals of E-85's supporters. The National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition, a lobby group founded by corn growers, had estimated the number of stations would grow to 2,500 this year. Now, the coalition is willing to settle for 1,200, said Michelle Kautz, a spokeswoman for the group.
 Still, the buzz over E-85 is growing -- where it is available. Further south along Interstate 55, Theresa Kight, a cashier at a Qik-n-EZ in Normal, Ill., said more customers were asking about the station's E-85 pumps. ''A lot of them that are interested buy it just to support the farmers,'' Ms. Kight said.
 Outside the station, though, Kevin Hart, a heating and air-conditioning service contractor, was fueling up his van on gasoline. ''Using more E-85 won't solve the problem'' of too much oil consumption and too little conservation, he said. ''People will just think they are helping the environment, so now 'I can burn more fuel.' ''
 But the owners of Qik-n-EZ said they believed in E-85's potential to diversify the country's fuel sources -- and help the Midwest's economy. Grady Chronister, the president and founder of the company, said the stations, which get all their ethanol from VeraSun, were selling the E-85 very close to cost. 
 ''This is not a product that warrants the financial investment at this time,'' said Mr. Chronister, who added that his family owns farms that grow corn, giving them extra incentive to support E-85. ''But we are glad we did it. We are in favor of alternative energy forms, especially those produced here in the United States.''
 Along the ethanol corridor very few people were actually buying E-85. At a Qik-n-EZ in Springfield, there was a 45-minute wait before the first customer, Mr. Beck, arrived to refuel his 2006 Ford F-150 truck at the lone E-85 pump set well away from the four rows of gasoline pumps. 
 After buying his truck in April, Mr. Beck discovered only two months ago that it was dual-fuel. In the past, most drivers did not even know they had flexible-fuel vehicles because the car companies did not bother to tell them and the engines are virtually indistinguishable.
 But from now on, ''we're going to do more to let people know what they have,'' said Susan Cischke, vice president for environmental and energy engineering at Ford. She said Ford marked its flexible-fuel vehicles on the hood and fuel cap.
 American automakers hope to double annual production of flexible-fuel vehicles, to two million, by 2010. There are now about 5 million on the road, out of 238 million total vehicles. 
 Detroit has much to gain from producing E-85-ready vehicles. In addition to acting as a positive diversion from their broader financial problems, the flexible-fuel vehicles help them meet federal standards for average fuel economy without having to build far more expensive hybrid cars. 
 But car companies bristle at the notion that they alone can make E-85 a national or even regional success. ''This is a bigger problem than one industry can solve,'' Frederick Henderson, the chief financial officer at General Motors, said recently.
 Major oil companies, which own fewer than 10 percent of the country's gasoline stations, say they will not stand in the way of retailers who want to put in E-85 pumps. But they will not help, either.
 That has placed the burden on the states where E-85 is linked with the success of ethanol. This year, Iowa, the country's biggest corn producer, began giving its retailers a 25-cent-a-gallon credit for selling E-85 and is providing up to half the cost of installing E-85 pumps. The governor of Illinois, Rod R. Blagojevich, just proposed spending $30 million to add 900 pumps over the next five years, a sevenfold increase.
 At the retail level, however, the effort to trumpet E-85 is inconsistent at best. Mr. Beck said he found the Springfield station only after doing some research, because the E-85 Web site run by the National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition lists pumps only by city, with a limited mapping function that fails to show drivers their location in relation to each other. 
 Unlike the standard gasoline pumps, the E-85 pump at the Qik-n-EZ did not take credit cards, forcing Mr. Beck to stand in line for 15 minutes behind customers buying beer, cigarettes and lottery tickets.
 ''You would think it would be as easy as buying fuel,'' he said, ''but it is a pain in the fanny.'' 
 And there is no room for error when trying to drive only on E-85. Do not leave Emporia, Kan., for instance, without fueling up a nearly empty tank first. Otherwise, somewhere on the Kansas Turnpike the fuel gauge needle goes below empty. 
 What then? Turn off the air-conditioning, coast part of the way in neutral and, finally, a service station -- the only one for another 30 miles -- has gasoline. But no E-85.

The Energy Challenge
 Articles in this series are examining the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/energychallenge.
 Alexei Barrionuevo of The Times went on a road trip to find out how available ethanol fuel is for American drivers. His interviews can be found in an audio report at nytimes.com/business.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A map in Business Day on Thursday with an article about a trip through the Midwest to assess the development of E-85, a fuel blend made from ethanol and gasoline, misspelled the name of a city in Kansas used as a reference point. It is Wichita, not Witchita.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Becker's Hotrod BP station in Dwight, Ill., is one of 135 in the state to sell the corn-based fuel E-85. (Photographs by Peter Wynn Thompson for The New York Times
illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Robert Beck said E-85 was worth buying for his pickup only if it was at least 30 cents lower than gasoline. (Photo by Peter Wynn Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart/Map: ''The E-85 Hunt''A Times reporter took a recent trip through the Midwest trying to rely exclusively on E-85, a fuel blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. In states like Illinois and Missouri, the pumps are becoming more common. Elsewhere, the fuel is still hard to find.KANSASCassoday, Kan.REGULAR GAS: $3.00MISSOURIColumbiaE-85: $2.35REGULAR GAS: $2.90ILLINOISDwightE-85: $2.70REGULAR GAS: $3.20NormalE-85: $2.59REGULAR GAS: $3.03SpringfieldE-85: $2.60REGULAR GAS: $3.00LitchfieldE-85: $2.76REGULAR GAS: $3.18(Seth W. Feaster/The New York Times)(Source by National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition [www.e85fuel.com])(pg. C1)Map of Kansas, Missouri and Illinois highlighting trip and where E-85 and gasoline was purchased. (pg. C1)Chart/Map: ''Where to Find E-85''While there are now more than 850 publicly available pumps for E-85 -- a mixture of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline that can be used in flex-fuel vehicles -- most are in the upper Midwest. Minnesota has nearly 290 locations, but it is not available in more than 15 states.Map of the United States highlighting E-85 pump locations*.*As of Aug. 22. Alaska and Hawaii have none.(Source by National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); AGRONOMY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (75%); UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); RETAILERS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Surveys and Series; Ethanol ; Garages and Service Stations; Surveys and Series; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (84%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); VERASUN ENERGY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Petroleum Industry Research Foundation

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (84%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (84%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (84%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (84%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (84%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (84%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (84%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2865 CYCLIC ORGANIC CRUDES & INTERMEDIATES & ORGANIC DYES & PIGMENTS (54%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo; Lawrence J Goldstein

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) MIDWEST USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Midwestern States (US); Illinois; Missouri

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



605 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Costco Cuts Quarterly Profit Forecast 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The Costco Wholesale Corporation, the warehouse club operator, warned yesterday about lower-than-expected quarterly profit because of disappointing margins, as customers cut back on large purchases like furniture. 
 The retailer said that it expected earnings of 68 to 71 cents a share for the fourth quarter, which ends Sunday, including 3 cents a share in costs for an income tax reserve. Analysts, on average, had expected 77 cents, according to Reuters Estimates.
The warning took analysts by surprise; Costco's sales growth has been among the strongest in the retail sector. The company posted another solid performance for August yesterday, with sales up a better-than-expected 7 percent at stores open at least a year.
 Anthony Chukumba, an analyst with Morningstar, said, ''This could be an early sign that the higher-income consumer is finally starting to feel a bit of a pinch.'' 
 Those higher-income shoppers have proved resilient in the face of steep energy prices over the last year, but as the housing market slows, Wall Street has been worried that upscale retailers would start to suffer.
 Lower-priced chains like Wal-Mart Stores have been feeling that pressure for more than a year because their lower-income customers are most sensitive to rising costs.
 Costco executives said they were also seeing some signs of a spending pullback, particularly on expensive, nonessential items like furniture costing more than $1,000, electronics and jewelry. The company said total sales for the four weeks that ended last Sunday rose 11 percent, to $4.55 billion, with particularly strong demand in its foreign stores.
 An analyst with Lazard Capital Markets, Todd Slater, said the sales growth was in line with his expectations and better than many on Wall Street had expected. ''The company could begin to suffer from a decline in higher-margin discretionary spending due to slowing economic growth and a deceleration in the housing market, causing a less favorable sales mix and pressuring margins,'' he wrote.
 Shares of Costco declined $2.07 yesterday, to $47.18.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jay Hollander of West Palm Beach, Fla., did major shopping at the Costco in Lake Park, but other customers have cut back on purchases. (Photo by Mark Elias/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%) 

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (95%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Costco

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (95%); WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



606 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Alcatel Battles Criticism of Its Lucent Deal

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
With a week to go before a crucial vote on a deal that would reshape the telecommunications equipment industry, Alcatel disputed criticism about its planned takeover of Lucent on Wednesday and insisted that the deal would be good for shareholders. 
 ''Alcatel's management continues to get support,'' said Mark Burnworth, a spokesman for Alcatel, adding that it was making ''excellent progress toward the successful completion of the merger.''
 Proxinvest, a French shareholder adviser, has urged investors to vote against Alcatel's purchase of Lucent.
 ''Usually French companies are stopping foreigners from making purchases at home, but this looks like a French revolt against their executives' strategies overseas,'' said Per Lindberg, an analyst with the investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in London. ''If the French scupper this deal, then this event could be a trendsetter.'' Mr. Lindberg said that Proxinvest appeared to have support from some major investors in France, but he did not identify them.
 Serge Tchuruk, chief executive of Alcatel, agreed in April to pay $13.5 billion for Lucent, in a deal to create the world's biggest telephone equipment maker. Lucent, which is based in Murray Hill, N.J., has continued its weak performance since the bursting of the technology bubble early this decade. Even so, the initial reaction from analysts to the Alcatel deal was broadly positive.
 The merger, said analysts, would combine the growing reach of Alcatel in developing-world markets and its leadership in broadband equipment, fiber optic networks and Internet television with Lucent's strength in the wireless equipment market in the United States, where Alcatel is seeking growth.
 But Proxinvest said this week that the present proposal was too expensive for Alcatel shareholders and skewed too far in favor of Mr. Tchuruk, who would become chairman of a combined Alcatel and Lucent.
 ''This is a very, very expensive deal for Alcatel shareholders,'' said Pierre-Henri Leroy, the president of Proxinvest. Mr. Leroy was particularly concerned that the deal allowed Mr. Tchuruk, 68, to stay on past normal retirement age, and said that the conditions of the deal made it too difficult to remove him.
 Leroy said Lucent should hand over seven shares for each Alcatel share as part of any deal -- rather than five shares under the present proposal. Alternatively, Mr. Leroy said, Alcatel should drop plans to merge with Lucent and return to an earlier plan to appoint Mike Quigley, who is now Alcatel's chief operating officer, to succeed Mr. Tchuruk as chief executive. Under the merger, the chief executive of Lucent, Patricia F. Russo, would become the chief of the merged company.
 Mr. Burnworth said the arrangements for Mr. Tchuruk were ''indispensable to guarantee a stability of the management team during the three-year transition period right after the merger.''
 On Wednesday, Alcatel's stock rose 3.9 percent. Mr. Lindberg, the analyst with Dresdner, said that was a sign that investors thought that the deal might not go through after all. But Sandeep Malhotra, an analyst at Merrill Lynch in London, strongly disagreed with that analysis.
 Mr. Malhotra said Alcatel's stock was up largely because his own bank had issued a buy recommendation early Tuesday and had called on investors to vote in favor of the deal at a meeting on Sept. 7.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alcatel's chief, Serge Tchuruk, left, would be chairman of a merger with Lucent, and Patricia Russo of Lucent would be chief of the company. (Photo by Oliver Weiken/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); MERGERS (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); BROADBAND (73%); DIVESTITURES (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); INTERNET VIDEO (64%); RETIREMENT AGE (50%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (93%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Alcatel Sa; Lucent Technologies Inc

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (93%); ALU (NYSE) (93%); ALU (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%)

PERSON: PATRICIA RUSSO (58%) Mark Burnworth; Serge Tchuruk; James Kanter

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



607 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: When the Rich-Poor Gap Widens, 'Gatsby' Becomes a Guidebook 

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University, is the co-author, with Ben S. Bernanke, of ''Principles of Economics.'' E-mail: rhf3@cornell.edu

 BODY:
INTEREST in the lifestyles of the rich and famous varies with economic conditions. Just as someone who is seven feet tall may seem almost normal at an N.B.A. practice session, the purchases of the wealthy typically attract little notice when inequality is low and stable. But when inequality is high and growing rapidly, luxury purchases are sometimes as hard to ignore as a seven-foot ninth grader. 
 When ''The Great Gatsby'' was first published in 1925, income and wealth disparities were at record levels. It is thus no mystery that F. Scott Fitzgerald's tale of wealthy Americans during the Jazz Age became an instant best seller. 
Inequality diminished rapidly during the Great Depression and remained low until the 1970's. But since then, it has again been rising sharply. Today, disparities are once more at record levels, which may help explain the resurgence of interest in Gatsby. Fitzgerald's novel was recently selected, for example, for common reading programs at Cornell and other universities, programs in which students, faculty members, alumni and others on the staff are encouraged to read and discuss the same book as the academic year begins. 
 With my last literature course, taken in high school, just a dim memory, I was naturally apprehensive when Cornell administrators asked me to speak at the university's Gatsby convocation for incoming freshmen last week. In the process of preparing for that assignment, however, I was delighted to discover the extent to which my economics training actually seemed to illuminate important elements of the novel's story line.
 Consider, for example, the link between wealth and personal attractiveness. Everyone wants a home in a safe neighborhood with good schools, but those with low incomes cannot be sure of getting one. So economists are not surprised that women mention earning power at or near the top of the list when surveyed about traits they find attractive in men. Gatsby understood that his humble station in life made him an unlikely suitor for his coveted Daisy. And so he labored with singular focus and determination to achieve material success on the grandest scale possible. 
 The theory of compensating wage differentials helps illuminate a particular detail of this quest. This theory holds that the more unpleasant and risky a job is, the more it pays. Some of the largest pay premiums, it turns out, are those paid to highly qualified people who are willing to do morally questionable work. Tobacco industry consultants, for example, were once paid extremely high fees for their willingness to testify under oath that smoking had not been shown to cause serious illnesses. Gatsby realized that to have any chance of achieving his goal, he could not be cautious or squeamish. 
 Fitzgerald never reveals the precise details of how Gatsby amassed his fortune. But he leaves little doubt that Gatsby's work was not just morally suspect, but also well outside the law. Gatsby surely realized that if he were caught and punished, his dream would evaporate. But no matter. A less risky path would have meant certain failure.
 The burgeoning literature on the determinants of human well-being also sheds light on events in ''Gatsby.'' Once the almost exclusive domain of psychologists, happiness studies began to attract the attention of economists after Richard A. Easterlin posed a timeless question in an influential 1974 paper. Does money buy happiness? Current research supports seemingly contradictory answers to this question. 
 One is that in any given country, the average level of measured happiness remains essentially unchanged over time, even in the face of substantial growth in average incomes. But if getting more money does not make us happier, why do people often struggle so hard to earn more? An answer is suggested by other studies showing that at a single point in time, people are happier, on average, the more money they have. To the extent money influences measured happiness levels, then, it is relative, not absolute, income that seems to matter.
 But since Gatsby's income was enormous, in both relative and absolute terms, why wasn't he happy? Researchers have identified other factors that affect happiness levels far more than income does. For example, happiness levels rise substantially with the number of close friends someone has. One of the most striking scenes in the novel is of Gatsby's funeral, which almost no one bothered to attend. In his single-minded pursuit of material success, he appears to have developed no real friendships at all. 
 Gatsby's unhappiness may also be explained in part by the finding that those who focus most consciously and intensely on material success also tend to experience low levels of measured happiness. This is a singularly important finding for the many incoming freshmen whose only apparent goal is to become fabulously wealthy by age 25. 
 A far more promising strategy, according to the happiness literature, is to seek work you love. Those who find such a calling typically become deeply engaged in their professional lives. And engagement, in turn, leads to expertise, which in some fields, at least, leads to wealth. Finding work that you value for its own sake is thus not only a promising path to happiness, it may also increase your chances of becoming rich. But even if not, it will improve your odds of becoming an interesting person, someone who is attractive to both friends and potential mates alike. 
 F. Scott Fitzgerald probably would have appreciated the Zen-like quality of this finding. For although the novelist himself married a woman from a prosperous family, he advised others not to marry for money. ''Go where the money is,'' he counseled, ''then marry for love.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); SMOKING (63%) Personal Finances; Books and Literature; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: UTAH JAZZ (57%)

PERSON: Robert H Frank; F Scott (1896-1940) Fitzgerald

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



608 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Storm Passes, But Insurance Worries Stay

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
Jim Pozo felt he got a break on Wednesday when Tropical Storm Ernesto turned out to be nothing more than a slightly windy rainstorm as it crossed South Florida.
 And that was not just because his three-bedroom house near downtown Miami was unscathed. He had been worried, he said, that a storm causing even modest damage would push up his already sky-high insurance premiums.
''I don't know how people can afford it at these rates,'' said Mr. Pozo, a real estate broker and investor. Another big storm, he said ''is just going to make it go up more.''
 All along the coasts, from Texas to New England, insurers suffering from hurricane jitters are raising rates and cutting back on coverage. But nowhere is the situation more severe than in Florida, particularly here in South Florida and in the Florida Panhandle, where storms in recent years have added billions to the insurers' losses. 
 ''Even though this was a very mild tropical storm, it reminds the insurance industry of the risk involved in underwriting insurance in Florida and will make them even more cautious,'' said J. Antonio Villamil, the chairman of Gov. Jeb Bush's council of economic advisers and the chief executive of the Washington Economics Group, an economic and business consultant in Coral Gables.
 ''The bottom line is, this storm didn't help,'' he said.
 State officials are stymied on what to do about the problem. They can hope, like Mr. Pozo, that the next three months of hurricane season will be as benign as the first three. The officials have been struggling to restrain rising prices, but they know the more pressure they put on company profits, the more the companies will cut back on the amount of coverage they offer.
 Insurers like State Farm and Allstate have already cut back significantly and, as a result, the state-run insurance agency -- Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, the insurance company of last resort -- has become the biggest insurer in the state with about one million policies. 
 Governor Bush and other officials are considering whether to call a special session of the State Legislature to wrestle with insurance issues. Florida has also taken the lead in pushing for the creation of a federal insurance program that would relieve some of the strain, not only on hurricane-prone states but also on states like California, where earthquakes are the demon.
 Insurance prices have been climbing in Florida since Hurricane Andrew in 1992 cost the insurers $21.5 billion in today's dollars. That storm stood for years as the most costly hurricane until Hurricane Katrina a year ago led to more than $41 billion in insurance payouts. 
 Insurance prices here escalated sharply after seven hurricanes hit the state in 2004 and 2005 and as weather forecasters predicted that the particularly bad run of hurricanes could keep going for at least the next decade.
 Finding coverage at any cost is becoming increasingly difficult. Allstate, for example, has begun turning down renewals for more than 200,000 customers and turning them over to smaller companies with less robust finances, adding to feelings of insecurity among homeowners. State Farm has notified many condominium associations that it plans to stop insuring them. 
 Over the last year, insurance prices for many homeowners in Florida have jumped at least 20 to 40 percent, on top of several previous increases. And those homeowners have been the lucky ones. Along the beaches and even near the water, coverage costs have doubled this year for many homes and are now the most expensive in the country, industry officials say.
 At renewal time this year, the annual premiums on Mr. Pozo's house jumped to $6,000, from $4,000. Worse, the insurer that had been providing wind coverage for a 34-unit apartment building that Mr. Pozo owns refused to renew his policy. 
 Mr. Pozo had never filed a claim. The apartment building is not near water and is sturdily built of concrete blocks with a solid roof. The bank that holds Mr. Pozo's $1.3 million mortgage insisted upon insurance. 
 The bank found an insurer willing to provide coverage, but at staggering rates and on unusual terms: month to month through the six months of the hurricane season. For the first two months, Mr. Pozo said, the premium was $1,600 a month. Then it jumped to $5,000 and for the remaining three months of the season, he said, it will be $8,400 a month. 
 To top things off, the special policy comes with a deductible of $100,000. 
 Mr. Pozo had no choice. He could either pay the insurance rates or lose his mortgage.
 ''The insurance companies just say it's too hazardous, too risky,'' Mr. Pozo said. ''The bank has to protect itself.''
 In the suburban town of Palmetto Bay, just south of Miami, Carla and Richard Gordon were hit with a 51 percent increase in the cost of their wind insurance, which rose to $3,871 a year. They had a separate policy on their four-bedroom Mediterranean-style home, two miles from Biscayne Bay. It jumped 31 percent, to $2,400 a year. The wind policy carries an $8,000 deductible.
 Like many people, the Gordons are having a hard time understanding the steep increases. Their home was destroyed by Hurricane Andrew, and when they rebuilt they wanted to make sure they were secure. 
 ''We have every single safety thing you can put in a house,'' Mrs. Gordon said. ''Our house was built above and beyond the codes. We have orange curved roof tiles. But they're made of cement, not clay.''
 The Gordons had expected the stronger house would get them a break on their insurance prices. But it has not worked out that way.
 Mrs. Gordon, an elementary school teacher, said her next-door neighbor was paying even more for wind insurance, about $5,900. Mr. Gordon's brother lives in Hollywood, about 20 miles north of Miami. His premiums doubled, to about $4,000, Mr. Gordon said.
 ''Everybody I know has gotten major increases,'' Mr. Gordon said.
 Still, the insurance companies say regulators are preventing them from raising prices enough to reflect the true cost of providing insurance in Florida.
 In the last two years, the insurers have paid out $31 billion for claims in Florida, or about three-quarters of the $41 billion they paid for damage from Hurricane Katrina in half a dozen states, according to Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. 
 Florida, like Mississippi and Louisiana, created a state-run insurance company to provide coverage when companies like Allstate and State Farm would not. Without the ability to get home insurance, people would be unable to get mortgages and housing sales would stall. 
 But after Hurricane Katrina and the other recent hurricanes, these state-run insurance companies are all in financial trouble. In Florida, for example, the state-run company, Citizens, was more than $2 billion in the red at the end of last year. 
 To bail it out, the State Legislature allocated $715 million in tax receipts for Citizens this year and permitted it to sell bonds. In addition, Citizens was allowed to raise money from the private insurers with assessments that the companies are then passing on to policyholders, further adding to the policyholders' costs.
 The coverage the state-run companies offer is truly a last resort. Unlike most private home insurance policies, those provided by the state, at equally high prices, do not provide for the full cost of replacing a destroyed house, and instead of paying the cost of replacing furnishings, the state policies reimburse at the depreciated value of furniture and clothes. Imagine, for example, the value today of a couch purchased 10 years ago for $1,500. Insurance from a state-run insurance agency might pay $150 toward a new couch that today might cost $2,500.
 Some of the steepest price increases, industry officials say, have come in Pensacola and other towns in the Florida Panhandle that were heavily damaged by Hurricane Ivan in 2004 and Hurricane Dennis in 2005. 
 Mr. Hartwig said the insurers had paid most of the three million claims from the seven hurricanes in the last two years. But the South Florida landscape is still dotted with homes with blue tarpaulins tied down over them as temporary roofs. Except in the Panhandle region, there has not been much flooding in Florida. That is in contrast to the damage from Katrina, where flooding was the main destroyer. 
 A consequence of the high insurance costs in Florida, and especially the high deductibles, is that homeowners are taking extra steps to prevent damage. As the first winds of Tropical Storm Ernesto were brushing South Florida earlier this week, Mrs. Gordon hired a handyman to put up storm shutters. 
 ''I don't think this storm is going to be too bad,'' Mrs. Gordon said, ''but I have an $8,000 deductible.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The annual insurance premiums on Jim Pozo's Miami home increased to $6,000, from $4,000 last year. (Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times)(pg. C11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); WEATHER (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (65%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Insurance; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Law and Legislation; Insurance

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (58%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%) State Farm Insurance Cos; Allstate Insurance Co; Citizens Property Insurance

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%)

PERSON: Joseph B Treaster; Jeb (Gov) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Florida 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



609 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: A Farewell to a Quiet Man, Killed in a Violent Spree 

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON and ANGELA MACROPOULOS

DATELINE: MASSAPEQUA PARK, N.Y., Aug. 30 

 BODY:
Todd Upton was not a member of the Bloods street gang. He was a quiet, hard-working and devoted husband raising three children in the same unassuming ranch house where he grew up in this quiet suburban community.
 But the man accused of killing him in a state of delusion may have mistaken him for a Bloods member.
After a quarter-century of steady service as a deliverer for United Parcel Service, Mr. Upton, 51, was a few months from retirement. He took few chances in life, people who attended his funeral on Wednesday recalled, preferring the quiet life on Philadelphia Avenue in Massapequa Park to adventurous vacations or festive outings to New York City. 
 On Friday night, as he and Mary, his high school sweetheart and wife of 27 years, returned from taking their eldest child, Angela, 21, to Marist College in Poughkeepsie, Mr. Upton was fatally shot in the neck in Queens.
 The suspect, Matthew Colletta, 34, was an unemployed bricklayer with a long history of mental illness and erratic behavior, including violent episodes in his rocky relationship with his companion.
 The authorities said that he got into his car on Friday with a stash of drugs and a heart full of rage against his companion and began driving around Queens shooting at red cars. The police said Mr. Colletta believed he was being threatened by the Bloods gang, which is identified with the color red. Prosecutors said Mr. Colletta told them that he recalled seeing ''red cars closing in'' on him. 
 On the Cross Island Parkway, the authorities said, Mr. Colletta came upon a red minivan with the Uptons in it, returning home to the quiet streets of Massapequa Park, and shot at it. 
 The consummate family man never made it home or to his retirement or to a college graduation for his children, Angela, Erin, 19, and Keith. He died a few hours later at a hospital.
 Mr. Colletta fired at nine people, the authorities said, wounding at least four people besides Mr. Upton. All the others survived.
 Mr. Colletta was charged with second-degree murder and other crimes,, and is being held at Bellevue Hospital Center for psychiatric testing that may determine whether he is fit to stand trial.
 The senselessness and the randomness that brought an angry gunman and a quiet man into adjacent lanes for one fatal moment was pondered at a Mass for Mr. Upton at St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church in Massapequa.
 ''Why God, why did Todd die?'' Msgr. Daniel Hurley asked. 
 ''We can't make sense out of this. The message of Todd's death is to be better, more holy and more committed people.''
 He spoke of Mr. Upton as a ''sensitive, solid man'' and a reliable worker: ''As a U.P.S. driver, he was a year-round Santa Claus for so many people,'' Monsignor Hurley said.
 Referring to the book ''When Bad Things Happen to Good People,'' written by a rabbi, he called Mr. Upton's death a perfect example of the title's description, but as if unable to hear his own comforting explanation, he suddenly broke into tears himself.
 Then Mrs. Upton spoke, describing her husband with intimate tenderness, a man who loved reading Stephen King and ''Calvin and Hobbes'' and enjoyed watching fatherly sitcoms, including ''The King of Queens'' and ''Everybody Loves Raymond.''
 He preferred Coke (with lots of ice) and chocolate milk (made with Fox's U-bet syrup) to alcohol, she said, and not only finished his brussels sprouts, but also asked for more.
 ''He rarely carried more than $20 in his pocket and left all the details to me,'' she said.
 Family and friends said little about the killing or about Mr. Colletta. Joan Ratty, of Farmingdale, a friend of Mrs. Upton, said, ''I don't want to speak for Mary, but she said at the wake that this is all senseless.''
 For all of Mr. Upton's cautious living, he was just beginning to take chances, his wife said, recalling his willingness to go on a trip to Alaska on their 25th wedding anniversary recently and then to take a plane ride over a snowy mountainous expanse. 
 ''He said, 'This is the best thing ever,' and he couldn't wait to take the children there,'' she said, as her husband's coffin lay before the altar.
 ''You want to know the definition of a family man?'' she said, letting the question answer itself.
 ''I'm proud to be his wife,'' she said and addressed her quiet, devoted and now deceased husband paraphrasing the song lyrics: ''Until the twelfth of never, I'll always be loving you.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Todd Upton, who was killed in a random shooting, was eulogized at his funeral yesterday. His wife recalled a recent anniversary trip to Alaska. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GANGS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); MURDER (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (70%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); RELIGION (63%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Mental Health and Disorders ; Gangs; Threats and Threatening Messages

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (56%) Bloods (Gang)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%)

PERSON: Corey Kilgannon; Angela Macropoulos; Mary Upton; Todd Upton; Matthew Colletta

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Massapequa (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



610 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Fire in Subdivided Basement Kills Two in a New Jersey Home 

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLL

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD, N.J., Aug. 30 

 BODY:
A four-alarm fire tore through a three-story wood house on James Street here on Wednesday, killing two residents who, the authorities said, were living in illegal basement apartments. A tenant in a third basement apartment was critically injured. 
 The fire started around 3:40 a.m., said Chief Robert Moran of the Englewood Fire Department, and the flames quickly spread to the first and second floors of the house. In all, 14 people were in the house at the time of the fire, and most were members of the family that owns the property, Chief Moran said.
 One of the victims was identified as Sriwipha Phathan, 27, of Thailand. The identity of the second victim, a 41-year-old man from Mexico, was not released because his family had not been notified. Both died from burns and smoke inhalation and were found in separate bedrooms, Chief Moran said. 
 A third tenant, Augustin Palafox, was found in a bathroom with severe burns and was listed in critical condition at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. Chief Moran said it appeared that Mr. Palafox was trying to put out the fire. 
 Chief Moran said that the basement had been divided into individual units, but that the city's planning office had no record of permits being issued to the owner, Oscar Cortes, for the work. Deputy Chief Arthur O'Keefe of the Englewood Police Department said charges were likely to be filed against Mr. Cortes for illegal units. Arson investigators said the fire was accidental, but they had not determined how it started. 
 Mr. Cortes's daughter, Natalia, said the family moved into the house at 79 James Street about four years ago and renovated the basement in anticipation of the arrival of relatives from Colombia. When the relatives did not arrive, Mr. Cortes rented rooms to the three fire victims and a woman, Gloria Mendoza.
 On Wednesday morning, Ms. Mendoza stood a few doors down from the charred house, where she paid $350 a month, and spoke briefly to reporters. She said that she was at a friend's house when the fire started, and when she returned she found the house in flames. 
 Mr. Palafox and the unidentified man worked at a deli and a grocery store a few blocks from the house and Ms. Phathan worked at a Thai restaurant in town, Ms. Mendoza said. 
 A shortage of low-cost housing has become a growing problem in Bergen County, and illegal conversions are becoming more common, Bergen County officials said. Mayor Michael Wildes of Englewood said that in recent years the growing number of illegal immigrants moving into the city had led landlords to capitalize on the situation. 
 ''It is a tremendous challenge in our nation and in our city where people with economic challenges are forced into these situations,'' Mr. Wildes said. 
 He said that he did not know how many illegal units Englewood had but that the city had been increasing inspections in recent months. 
 ''Any landlord that profits or benefits from situations like this should be prosecuted,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: At 79 James Street in Englewood, N.J., flames, mostly in the back of the house, damaged the interior from the basement to the second floor. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (92%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTIES (78%); ARSON (78%); BURN INJURIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); FAMILY (75%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CITIES (70%); MAYORS (70%); CITY LIFE (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) Fires and Firefighters; Fires and Firefighters

ORGANIZATION: St Barnabas Hospital (Livingston NJ)

PERSON: John Holl; Robert Moran; Sriwipha Phathan; Augustin Palafox; Arthur (Police Chief) O'Keefe; Oscar Cortes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); THAILAND (71%) Englewood (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



611 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: City Officials in New Jersey Plead Guilty to Corruption

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS; Jill P. Capuzzo contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J., Aug. 30 

 BODY:
The powerful president of Atlantic City's City Council and a former Camden councilman pleaded guilty on Wednesday to federal corruption and bribery charges. 
 The charges grew out of a sting operation in which the two men took thousands of dollars from a local contractor and an F.B.I. agent posing as an investor in his company. In return, the two officials agreed to get them public contracts.
 Craig Callaway, 47, the president of Atlantic City's City Council since 2003 and part of a family that has long been involved in politics in the city, pleaded guilty to a single bribery count. 
 In a hearing before Judge Joseph H. Rodriguez of Federal District Court, he said that he had taken about $36,000 from the contractor over a two-year period. As part of his plea agreement, he said he had accepted the money with the understanding that he would help get the contractor work on one of the city's development projects in the northeast section of Atlantic City.
 In a statement on the steps of the federal courthouse in Camden after his plea, Mr. Callaway said he was resigning from the City Council. 
 His was the first corruption conviction involving Atlantic City officials in 22 years, according to law enforcement officials. It comes as federal corruption investigations have resulted in the indictments of more than two dozen elected and appointed officials in Monmouth and Hudson Counties to the north. It also comes at a prosperous time for Atlantic City's gambling industry, which has been adding new casinos. 
 Also pleading guilty was Ali Sloan El, 52, a longtime veteran of Camden politics who resigned his City Council post last month as federal investigators were closing in. Under his plea agreement, he admitted to accepting about $36,000 in exchange for promises to steer work on city projects to the contractor. In the past decade, he had been a vocal critic of what he called cozy relationships between the Camden County Democratic organization and businesses receiving public contracts. 
 No political figures associated with the county Democratic machine, led by George E. Norcross III, have been charged in any federal corruption cases. However, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, State Senator Wayne Bryant, also from Camden County, has been the subject of subpoenas and search warrants in connection with an unrelated federal investigation of his real estate transactions.
 The United States attorney for New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie, speaking of the guilty pleas by Mr. Callaway and Mr. Sloan El, said: ''Unfortunately, this is just more of the same of what we see all over New Jersey, north and south. Public officials sell their offices, lining their pockets and making a mockery of their service to the public.''
 The contractor who figured in the case, Terry Jacobs, 43, pleaded guilty on Wednesday as well, but to unrelated charges of conspiring to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine.
 Thomas J. Eicher, an assistant United States attorney, would not give details of Mr. Jacobs's role in the corruption case. But a law enforcement official familiar with it confirmed that it was only after Mr. Jacobs's arrest by another law enforcement agency on the drug charges, nearly a month after he and the F.B.I. agent paid an initial bribe to Mr. Callaway, that the contractor became a knowing participant in the sting operation.
 Under his plea agreement, Mr. Callaway could face up to three years in prison when he is sentenced on Dec. 12, if the judge accepts the recommendation of prosecutors. The prosecutors are expected to seek a sentence of up to 30 months for Mr. Sloan El. Mr. Jacobs faces seven to 10 years under his plea agreement. All three remain free on bond pending sentencing. 
 Mr. Callaway got his start in Atlantic City politics in the 1980's when he took to the streets to protest the barriers that black residents and black contractors like his family-owned company faced in getting work on much of the new casino construction. He and his family members built a grassroots organization, which many in the city said would continue to have political influence.
 Mayor Robert W. Levy, who was elected in 2005 after Mr. Callaway dropped out of the race and threw his support behind him, said in a statement that he was ''both saddened and disappointed by today's news.'' 
 In Camden, the reaction to Mr. Sloan El's guilty plea was disbelief among those who recalled his outspoken criticism of the county's Democratic organization and its relationship with businesses that contributed to the party. 
 Frank Fulbrook, president of the Camden Neighborhood Revitalization Corporation, a frequent ally of Mr. Sloan El in those fights, said it meant the loss of ''a good politician and street organizer.'' 
 ''But he used bad judgment and made a mistake,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (96%); CITIES (94%); CORRUPTION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); GUILTY PLEAS (92%); BRIBERY (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (86%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); SEARCH WARRANTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SUBPOENAS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); CASINOS (73%); JUDGES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); REAL ESTATE (69%); GAMING (64%) Politics and Government ; City Councils; Sentences (Criminal); Ethics; Bribery; Area Planning and Renewal; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (54%) Federal Bureau of Investigation

PERSON: Ronald Smothers; Craig (City Council Pres) Callaway; Ali (Councilman) Sloan El; Terry Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Atlantic City (NJ) ; Camden (NJ); Atlantic City (NJ) 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



612 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Protections for Rent-Stabilized Units

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
Close to three-quarters of the apartments in Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village fall under the state's rent stabilization system, which limits the size of allowable rent increases in about one million New York City apartments. Though tenants in stabilized units often fear being forced out by a new owner eager to charge market-rate rents, state law allows owners to remove units from rent stabilization only under certain conditions. 
 Under the Rent Regulation Reform Act of 1997, an occupied and rent-stabilized apartment can be deregulated after its rent reaches $2,000 a month -- but only if the household income of the existing tenants is at least $175,000 for two years in a row. If their income is lower, the unit remains stabilized. Once that apartment is vacated, the owner can have the unit deregulated and can charge the next tenant market-rate rents.
As long as an occupied unit is stabilized, the owner can raise the rent only by a percentage agreed upon by the city's Rent Guidelines Board each year. Under the board's most recent vote in June, landlords of stabilized units are allowed to raise rents by 7.25 percent on two-year leases. Once those tenants move out, the owner can add a 20 percent increase onto the next two-year lease; he or she can also add one-fortieth of the cost of any improvements made between tenants.
 ''The people in place are protected by the rent regulatory laws,'' said Peter Moses, a spokesman for the State Department of Housing and Community Renewal, which administers the rent regulation system. ''Such protection continues regardless of the sale of the property.'' JANNY SCOTT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (96%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Housing; Peter Cooper Village (NYC); Stuyvesant Town (NYC); Renting and Leasing; Rent Control and Stabilization

ORGANIZATION: Housing and Community Renewal Division (NYS)

PERSON: Janny Scott; Peter Moses

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



613 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Drafting Sanctions as Iran Ignores Deadline 

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
With Iran defying a Thursday deadline to halt production of nuclear fuel, the United States and three European allies are assembling a list of sanctions they would seek in the United Nations Security Council, beginning with restrictions on imports of nuclear-related equipment and material. 
 Eventually, punitive measures might expand to restrict travel by Iran's leaders and limit the country's access to global financial markets, according to diplomatic officials involved in the talks who spoke only on condition of anonymity.
Aside from the effort in the Council, the Bush administration is also seeking to persuade European financial institutions to end new lending to Iran. Some Swiss banks have already quietly agreed to limit their lending, American officials say. 
 Even as an agreement shapes up among the United States, Britain, France and Germany, the push for sanctions faces a high hurdle in the Council, given Russia and China's possession of veto power and their opposition to discussion of serious punishment for Iran. 
 In addition, the sanctions effort may also be hampered by a report to be issued Thursday by the International Atomic Energy Agency, in which inspectors will describe only slow progress by Iran in enriching uranium. 
 The report, according to diplomats familiar with its contents, will describe how Iran has resumed producing small amounts of enriched uranium since temporarily stopping in the spring, but has not increased the rate of production.
 Furthermore, the report is expected to say that the purity of the uranium enrichment would not be high enough for use in nuclear weapons, but only for power plants. Iran has long insisted that its program is for peaceful purposes only.
 ''The big question is why they appear to be moving so slowly,'' said one European official who has been involved in monitoring Iran's progress. One explanation, the official said, is that the Iranians have not wanted to escalate tensions by appearing to be racing ahead in the production of uranium.
 Alternative explanations, offered by some American officials, are that the country's scientists have run into technical problems or that they are hiding some facilities. The mystery has been deepened by Iran's recent restrictions on where international inspectors can roam, and its refusal to allow them to see facilities that Iran has not declared to be related to its nuclear program.
 The atomic agency's report is also expected to detail questions that Iran has failed to answer about suspected nuclear activities that it has declined to show to international inspectors.
 European and American officials say, for example, that Iran has refused to elaborate on President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's claim earlier this year that the country has an active research project under way using an advanced type of enrichment centrifuge that it obtained from the Pakistani nuclear scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan. 
 In an interview, R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, said that when the agency's report comes out on Thursday the American argument will focus on Iran's official refusal this month to stop enriching uranium despite an international ultimatum. 
 ''The only criterion that matters is whether they met the conditions that the Security Council said they had to meet,'' he said. ''And they haven't done it.'' 
 The list of proposed sanctions, according to American and European officials, would begin with low-impact measures like an embargo on the sale of nuclear-related goods to Iran, and the freezing of overseas assets and a ban on travel for Iranian officials directly involved in the nuclear program. 
 American sales to Iran have been restricted ever since the Iran hostage crisis. But European and Russian companies have sold technology for Iran's budding civilian nuclear program, and American officials said Wednesday that it was unclear whether the sanctions would force Russia to stop helping Iran complete its nuclear reactor at Bushehr. 
 The Bushehr project is worth hundreds of millions of dollars to Russia, and the government of President Vladimir V. Putin is expected to argue that sanctions should not affect civilian projects that are already under way. ''Stopping Bushehr would be the biggest impact of a nuclear-related sanction,'' said Robert J. Einhorn, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and former assistant secretary of state for nonproliferation under President Bill Clinton.
 American officials expect the debate within the Council to take weeks and say it could extend through the opening of the United Nations General Assembly in mid-September, an event that will include a speech by President Bush and meetings with other heads of state. The administration is preparing to use those meetings to press for the sanctions resolution, just as it used the same meeting four years ago to begin to build its case for demands against Iraq.
 But Russia and China, among other countries, are concerned about any American-led escalation of a confrontation. Unlike the Bush administration's effort four years ago, however, American officials appear to be shying from using intelligence information to build their case. Instead, they are citing Mr. Ahmadinejad's public statements and Iran's refusal to comply with the Council resolution passed in July, with support from Russia and China, that demanded full suspension of enrichment by Aug. 31. 
 ''Russia and China can't claim they didn't agree to impose some nonmilitary sanctions'' if Iran refused to comply, Mr. Einhorn noted. American officials said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice had received assurances in June that Russia would, at a minimum, sign on to a first phase of weak sanctions. 
 But it is unclear whether Russia or China will sign on to sanctions if they believe that commits them to voting in favor of further pressure.
 Yet that is exactly the American strategy, as described by administration and European officials. If Iran still has not suspended uranium enrichment in a few weeks, the sanctions proposed by the United States and Europe would progress to a broader travel ban and freezing of assets for government members, a senior administration official said. 
 Continued noncompliance would bring a ratcheting up of sanctions to include restrictions on commercial flights and on World Bank loans. 
 Iran has hinted at various times in recent months that it would respond to sanctions with actions of its own, from cutting oil production to threatening to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, as North Korea did.
 Other American officials said they feared that sanctions could prompt Iran to spur the insurgency in Iraq or sponsor terrorism by Hezbollah. But Mr. Burns said on Wednesday, ''We're not going to be intimidated by the Iranians.'' 
 He is expected to travel to Berlin next week to begin work on drafting a Security Council resolution, administration officials said.
 But despite the private assurances American officials say they have received, the public comments of senior Russian and Chinese officials have remained ambiguous. Russia's defense minister said last Friday that it was premature to consider punitive actions against Iran, adding that the issue was not ''so urgent'' that the Council should consider sanctions and expressing doubt that they would work in any case.


GRAPHIC: Photo: R. Nicholas Burns, an under secretary of state, is expected to spend part of next week in Germany helping to address Iran's nuclear program. (Pool photo by Mikhail Metzel)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); VETO (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); CENTRIFUGES (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%) Atomic Weapons; Uranium; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (82%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations; Security Council (Un); International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%) Helene Cooper; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Iran; Great Britain; France; Iran; Germany; China; Russia; Iran

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



614 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Three Polls Find Workers Sensing Deep Pessimism

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Three new opinion polls released yesterday found deep pessimism among American workers, with most saying that wages were not keeping pace with inflation and that workers were worse off in many ways than a generation ago. 
 The Pew Research Center found in a survey of 2,003 adults completed last month that an overwhelming majority said workers had less job security and faced more on-the-job stress than 20 or 30 years ago.
The nonpartisan Pew center, said, ''The public thinks that workers were better off a generation ago than they are now on every key dimension of worker life -- be it wages, benefits, retirement plans, on-the-job stress, the loyalty they are shown by employers or the need to regularly upgrade work skills.'' 
 In a poll of 803 registered voters commissioned by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., Peter D. Hart Research found that 55 percent said their incomes were not keeping up with inflation, 33 percent said their incomes were keeping even and 9 percent said their incomes were outpacing inflation.
 The poll found that 38 percent of respondents said the economy would become worse over the next year compared with 14 percent who predicted that it would improve.
 Pointing to this pessimism, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, John J. Sweeney, said in a news conference that organized labor would mount its largest campaign effort ever in the fall. Mr. Sweeney promised a $40 million effort to educate and mobilize union members, focusing on 56 House races, 10 Senate races and 14 races for governor. 
 Labor officials said they would focus on Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
 ''This Labor Day, it appears that a perfect storm is gathering that may well sweep away Republican control of the Congress this fall,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''Economic trends have strained working families to the breaking point. Workers are not sharing in the wealth they helped create, and our nation's economic recovery has not been a recovery for workers at all.'' 
 Mr. Sweeney said his labor federation was seeking to cooperate with the six unions that left it over the past year.
 ''The split is not helping American workers,'' he said. ''But we are working very closely with many of the disaffiliated unions.''
 A spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, Tracey Schmitt, said Republicans planned to match the turnout efforts.
 ''The reality is that Republican policies have helped create 5.5 million jobs in the past three years,'' Ms. Schmitt said. ''The unemployment rate is lower than the average of the last three decades, and the Democrats' solution to our growing economy is a $2.4 trillion tax hike.'' 
 She said Republicans would welcome a debate on economic growth.
 In a study on the economy to be released today, Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao says more Americans are working than ever. The report notes that hourly wages are 1.9 percent higher than in 2000, taking inflation into account. Over the last two years, however, wages have failed to keep up with inflation for most workers.
 A poll of 800 nonsupervisory workers released yesterday by Lake Research Partners found that 51 percent said the next generation would be worse off economically, 27 percent said the next generation would fare about the same and 18 percent said it would be better off. 
 The poll, for Change to Win, the coalition of unions that left the A.F.L.-C.I.O., found that 63 percent of respondents said the economy was on the wrong track and 28 percent said it was going in the right direction.
 ''These results tell us that five years into an economic recovery working families are feeling battered and are losing hope for the future,'' said Anna Burger, chairwoman of Change to Win.
 The Pew poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus two percentage points; the other two polls have margins of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. 
 The Pew survey found that 69 percent said there was more on-the-job stress than a decade ago, 62 percent said there was less job security and 59 percent said Americans had to worker harder to earn decent livings. Thirteen percent said they did not have to work as hard, and 26 percent said they work about the same.
 One factor increasing anxiety is the corporate trend to send job overseas. The Pew poll found that 31 percent of respondents said it would be possible for their employer to hire someone outside the country for their job. Seventy-seven percent said outsourcing jobs to other countries hurt American workers, while 13 percent said it helped. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); WORKPLACE STRESS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TRENDS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); US LABOR DAY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (72%); FAMILY (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); GOVERNORS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TAX LAW (62%); TAX INCREASES (50%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Public Opinion; Stress (Human); Organized Labor; Labor

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (83%); CHANGE TO WIN (59%) Pew Research Center; Hart, Peter D, Research Associates; American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Lake Research Partners; Change to Win Coalition

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



615 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Peace in Darfur at Risk, As New Conflict Looms
Negotiations over a proposed United Nations force to shore up the shaky peace in Darfur have limped along with no sign of compromise. The opposing sides in the conflict now seem headed toward a large-scale military confrontation. A1

Allies Ready Sanctions for Iran 

With Iran defying the deadline to halt production of nuclear fuel, the United States and three European allies are assembling a list of sanctions they would seek in the United Nations Security Council that would begin by restricting imports of nuclear material. A1

52 Die in Iraq Sectarian Attacks
Shootings and hidden bombs at an Iraqi market, a gas station and an army recruiting center killed at least 52 people, continuing a wave of sectarian violence that has claimed roughly 200 lives this week. Despite the spike in violence, the top United States general in Iraq said Iraqi forces could take over security as early as next year. A10

Israel Spurns U.N. Request
Israel's prime minister, Ehud Olmert, rebuffed a request from the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, for even a partial lifting of the seven-week-old blockade of Lebanon to allow Beirut's airport to resume normal operations. A12

A continuing Israeli offensive in the Gaza Strip killed nine people, including four civilians, one of them a 14-year-old. Israelis announced the discovery of a 150-yard tunnel stretching from a house toward the Karni cargo crossing, which Israel had closed due to security alerts, between Gaza and Israel. A14

Sri Lanka Blamed in Aid Killings
Swedish-led cease-fire monitors accused the Sri Lankan government security forces of killing 17 aid workers in the town of Mutur in one of the worst attacks against humanitarian workers worldwide in recent years. The monitors cited several reasons, including confidential conversations with ''highly reliable sources'' that they said pointed to the culpability of the security forces. A12

ARTS E1-10

Fake Letter in Poet's Biography
A. N. Wilson, one of London's most visible literary figures, was duped into printing a made-up love letter in ''Betjeman,'' his book about the British poet laureate John Betjeman. In the fake document, the first letters of each sentence, except the first, spell out an insulting sentence that starts with Mr. Wilson's name and ends with a vulgarity. E1

Chicago Critic Criticized
Hedy Weiss, a theater critic for The Chicago Sun-Times for more than 20 years, is facing criticism herself after publishing scathing comments about a weekend-long festival of musicals in progress, called Stages. Edward Albee and Tony Kushner are among those who have voiced their objections. E3

NATIONAL A16-22

California Announces Deal To Curb Greenhouse Gases
California's political leaders announced an agreement that imposes the most sweeping controls on carbon dioxide emissions in the nation, putting the state at the forefront of a broad campaign to curb the man-made causes of climate change. A1

Some Colleges Ignoring SAT's
For many small liberal arts colleges the SAT may have outlived its usefulness. More than a quarter of the U.S. News and World Report's Top 100 liberal arts colleges have made college admissions exams optional. A1

Destruction of Ballots Delayed
With paper ballots from the 2004 presidential election in Ohio scheduled to be destroyed, the Ohio secretary of state said that he would move to delay the destruction. Since the election, questions have been raised about how votes were tallied. A16

Los Angeles School Overhaul
Los Angeles passed the reins of its troubled public schools to the mayor in measure passed by the State Legislature. But the legislation gives little real power to the mayor, and, school governance experts said, lacks accountability. A16

Conservation Policy Adopted
The National Park Service will adopt a policy emphasizing conservation of natural resources over recreation when they are in conflict. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Plan for Accused Priests: Be Monitored, or Resign
Cardinal Edward M. Egan, head of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, has a new plan for dealing with priests who, although credibly accused of sexually abusing children, cannot be defrocked for various reasons. They can spend the rest of their lives in closely supervised housing, or they can leave the priesthood. B1

Challenge to Housing Goals
The Bloomberg administration's aim to preserve much of the city's moderate-income housing amid skyrocketing prices is facing serious challenges, as illustrated by the possible sale of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village along the East River, long a bastion of middle-class residents. B1

Lawyer Charged in Killing
A lawyer in Fairfield, Conn., has been charged with murder after the police say he climbed through his neighbor's window and stabbed him to death shortly after hearing that the neighbor had molested the lawyer's 2-year-old daughter. B1

OBITUARIES A22-23

Glenn Ford
A laconic, soft-spoken actor with an easy smile who played leading roles in many westerns, melodramas and romantic films from the early 1940's through the 60's, he was 90. A22

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Apple's Boardroom Move
When Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive, was named to Apple Computer's board, it touched off speculation about the motives of Apple's co-founder, Steven P. Jobs. A1

Economy Grows Stronger
The economy grew more quickly in the second quarter than estimated and inflation was slightly lower, the Commerce Department reported. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Stars in their eyes; raising nicotine doses, on the sly; homestretch for a hack; Andrew Rosenthal on the silence in the streets.

Column: David Brooks.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E9
Crossword E4
Weather B9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WRITERS (85%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); ARMIES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); MILITARY RECRUITING (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); LITERATURE (66%); POETRY (65%); THEATER (62%); COUNTERFEITING (61%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) ISRAEL (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SUDAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); EUROPE (79%); LEBANON (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



616 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Flight Controller Had Little Sleep Before Crash

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Ky., Aug. 30 

 BODY:
The air traffic controller in the tower on Sunday when a Comair jet took off from the wrong runway had had just two hours of sleep, a member of the National Transportation Safety Board said Wednesday evening.
 The controller has told investigators that he saw the jet on the taxiway and gave it clearance to take off, and then turned his back to attend to other duties, failing to see it take the wrong turn. The plane crashed 29 seconds later, killing 49 of the 50 people on board.
 The safety board member, Deborah Hersman, said Wednesday that in addition to his ground duties, the controller had radar responsibilities, including telling the crew of an American Eagle plane that was 3 minutes and 12 seconds ahead of the Comair jet to change course to avoid bad weather. Ms. Hersman said the controller told investigators that after giving the takeoff clearance to the Comair jet, he began to take a count of traffic during his shift. 
 The Comair plane crashed about 6 a.m. Sunday. The controller had come on duty at 11:30 p.m. Saturday, Ms. Hersman said, and had finished his previous shift, seven hours of work, at 2:30 p.m. Saturday. 
 The Federal Aviation Administration has a longstanding policy that controllers should not be required to perform both radar work, like ordering changes in path for planes in flight, and ground duties, and it repeated that in a memorandum to managers in November. But since the accident, it has become clear that the policy has not been enforced at small towers around the country. 
 Ms. Hersman said: ''We will not just be looking at this shift. We will be taking a systems approach to this.''
 ''We're looking at people who determine policy and make decisions about staffing,'' she added. 
 The safety board continued on Wednesday to document the circumstances of the crash, but its conclusions usually take a year or more, and it generally will not release the cockpit voice recorder transcript or detailed information from the flight data recorder for months. If the board finds an urgent problem, it often issues recommendations before releasing its conclusions.
 Others pressed for quick changes though. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, called for more air traffic controllers around the country, especially in New York. 
 ''Sadly, the F.A.A. continues to short-staff control towers in an effort to control costs while they eschew safety,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''We have seen too many close calls, and now this week a tragic accident.''
 Mr. Schumer sought to link an episode in New York last year, in which three planes came too close together, to short staffing at the radar office in the area.
 Representatives James L. Oberstar of Minnesota, the ranking Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and Jerry F. Costello of Illinois, the ranking Democrat on its aviation subcommittee, asked the acting inspector general of the Transportation Department, of which the F.A.A. is a part, to investigate. They asked how many airports, like Blue Grass Airport here, had one controller handle both ground observation and radar 
 The aviation agency has at different times explained its opposition to such doubling up as a ''policy'' or ''guidance,'' and said it was a longstanding interpretation of its rules.
 After its memorandum last November, the manager at Blue Grass Airport responded by trying to shift radar duties to an office in Indianapolis. But a spokeswoman for the aviation agency, Laura J. Brown, said that had been delayed because the Indianapolis center was in the middle of changes to improve traffic flow. 
 The F.A.A. used to have agreed-upon staffing levels with the controllers, but now says its policy is to ''staff to traffic,'' to have the appropriate number of controllers on duty, to minimize taxpayer expense while keeping the system safe. Despite the agency's policy, Ms. Brown said, the manager in Lexington apparently thought he had the flexibility to have a single controller on duty because there were usually only six to eight flights from midnight to 6 a.m.
 This dispute over staffing comes after a recent defeat for the controllers' union. The F.A.A. declared an impasse in contract negotiations this year and imposed a new contract. The agency is seeking to lower staffing levels, and especially to lower overtime, saying it cannot afford previous levels of staffing, because of changes in airline economics.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Buses leaving the airport in Lexington, Ky., after victims' families viewed the crash site yesterday. (Photo by Ed Reinke/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (91%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (89%); AVIONICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRANSCRIPTS (61%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Accidents and Safety; Air Traffic Control; Radar; Airports; Airlines and Airplanes; Sleep

COMPANY: COMAIR LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (91%) Comair Inc; National Transportation Safety Board; Federal Aviation Administration

TICKER: COM (JSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (62%); JIM OBERSTAR (57%); JERRY F COSTELLO (50%) Matthew L Wald; Deborah Hersman

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (74%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Lexington (Ky)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



617 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Early Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Medical Spending Is Generally Worth the Cost

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BOSTON, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
Despite sharply rising costs, most Americans have gotten sizable life-extending bang for their medical bucks over recent decades, according to one of the most sweeping studies ever of health care value. 
 That may come as a surprise to anyone who has ever shuddered over a medical bill, and the report itself raises questions about why costs have risen so quickly.
The study calculated, however, that Americans of all ages spent an average of $19,900 on medical care for each extra year of life expectancy gained over the last four decades of the 20th century. And that cost is worth it, the study authors say.
 ''On average, the return is very high,'' said the study leader, David Cutler, a Harvard health economist. But the situation is getting worse, Mr. Cutler said, especially for the elderly.
 The federally financed study, by researchers at Harvard and the University of Michigan, is being published Thursday in The New England Journal of Medicine.
 The researchers measured value by the cost of care that extends the average person's life by one year. The $19,900 spent for each extra year of life, when averaged over 40 years, would be widely considered a reasonable value. Many public and private insurers routinely pay for treatments that cost up to roughly $100,000 for each additional year of life.
 The study attributes this relatively low cost for longer lifespan to things like cheap blood-pressure drugs that help prevent heart attacks.
 But the study also outlines disquieting trends. It found that inflation-adjusted costs from birth rose fivefold from the 1970's to the 1990's, when the cost of an additional year of life span peaked at $36,300. That means each health care dollar of the 1990's, when expensive drugs made modest impact on cancer, bought a fifth as much real value as 20 years before, when cheaper medicines saved many lives.
 And values deteriorated seriously for older people, the study finds. By the 1990's, 65-year-olds paid $145,000 for each additional year of life gained, a value that would be challenged for many individual treatments. These higher costs presumably come largely from end-of-life care that does not extend life much.
 Kathleen Stoll, health policy chief of the advocacy group Families U.S.A., said she believed that the study suggested real value anyway. ''Each increment of gain is more expensive now, but certainly very valuable to the person involved and their family,'' Ms. Stoll said.
 Others were troubled. 
 ''The fact that someone is writing this paper shows how desperate the health care system is to justify these out-of-control increases in health spending,'' said Dr. Sidney Wolfe, who heads health research at Public Citizen, a public-interest watchdog organization.
 Many factors apart from medical care extend life, like not smoking or keeping off extra weight. So the researchers turned to previous studies suggesting that about half of all gains in lifetime stem from medical care and adjusted their findings accordingly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); TRENDS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); WRITERS (74%); AGING (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (69%); INSURANCE (65%); HEART DISEASE (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (56%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (71%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2006



618 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS: LOFTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Student Living in High Style

BYLINE: By LIZ ARNOLD

 BODY:
Loft-Right, a new residence hall for students at DePaul University in Chicago, offers a lesson in design. The six-story steel-and-glass building, top left, designed by Antunovich Associates, is furnished with Herman Miller classics by George Nelson, as well as pieces from Knoll, Vitra and Kartell. 
 Most of the furniture in the 160 units, though, is by Charles and Ray Eames: a typical shared living room, above, has the plastic molded chairs, plywood tables and sofas they created for Herman Miller.
''Eames designed these pieces for use,'' said Carlos Martinez, a senior design director at Gensler, the firm that did the interiors. ''It's economical, practical and durable,'' he said, calling the furniture ''a perfect match'' for students. For the bedrooms, Gensler designed platform beds and wardrobes fabricated by Herman Miller. ''Some of the students know that it's Herman Miller furniture,'' said Robert D. Bronstein, the president of the Scion Group, which is managing the building, ''but all of them recognize that it's cool and urban.''
 Students lease individual bedrooms; a room in a four-bedroom unit, the most common configuration, costs about $1,045 a month. The fee includes utilities, high-speed Internet and WiFi, a heated garage and 24-hour security. The ground floor has a lounge, left, and retail shops including Starbucks. MJH Education Assistance Illinois, part of a nonprofit foundation, owns Loft-Right, at 1237 West Fullerton Avenue in the Lincoln Park neighborhood. LIZ ARNOLD


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Michelle Litvin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); RETAILERS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Dormitories; Interior Design

COMPANY: HERMAN MILLER INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (91%) Depaul University

TICKER: MLHR (NASDAQ) (92%); MHR (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (92%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (92%); SIC2521 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE (92%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (92%)

PERSON: liz arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



619 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Possible 3-Way Merger Would Create Aluminum Giant 

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
The Aluminum Company of America, or Alcoa, may face a rival for global dominance if a tentative merger of two Russian aluminum companies and a major Swiss commodity trader comes to fruition, perhaps as early as this fall.
 Should Alcoa drop from its No. 1 spot -- which has been forecast for some time by analysts -- it would be partly a reflection of wider industrial shifts that now favor Russia's commodity-driven economy, which benefits from cheap domestic energy prices.
A merger would give Russia a second corporation that is the world's largest in its industry. Gazprom, the Russian natural gas producer, is the world's largest in that field. For Russia, corporate size has become a symbol of pride, in stark contrast to most of the 1990's, when Russian businesses were flat on their backs from the chaos during the breakup of the Soviet Union. 
 Under the deal, Rusal, now Russia's largest aluminum operator, would merge with its smaller domestic competitor, Sual, along with the Swiss commodity trader Glencore International, which was founded by Marc Rich, the financier who fled the United States to avoid facing charges of tax evasion, racketeering and fraud and was pardoned by President Bill Clinton in January 2001. 
 If it goes through, the deal would be a boon for Rusal and its owner, the Russian oligarch Oleg V. Deripaska, a former nuclear physicist turned corporate raider and one of the country's richest men. 
 ''Any monopoly creates the potential of price setting, dominating the market, and competing for resources around the world,'' said Konstantin Remchukov, a former senior vice president at Sibirsky Aluminum, which was a precursor to the company that became Rusal. 
 ''The president of any company wants to be No. 1 in the world,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''Then, they are listened to. It's important for our reputation and makes a lot of business sense.'' The company owners have been in backroom talks for about a month but signed a memorandum of understanding laying out the shape of the potential new company last week, according to a banker who is advising on the merger. 
 Rusal, Sual and Glencore have not publicly announced the merger negotiations. 
 A banker advising on the deal and company officials, who refused to speak for attribution because of continuing discussions, confirmed the talks on Wednesday. Russia's Kommersant newspaper reported the negotiations earlier this month and The Financial Times reported this week that the memorandum had been signed. 
 In the merger talks, the London office of Morgan Stanley is advising Rusal, while J. P. Morgan-Cazenove and UBS are advising Sual. Glencore does not have an adviser, according to the banker. 
 Under the deal, Rusal would use its stock to buy Sual and the aluminum assets of Glencore. Mr. Deripaska would own 64.5 percent of the resulting company through his holding company, Basic Element. Sual, one of the properties in the empire of the Russian tycoon Viktor Vekselberg, would own 21.5 percent, and Glencore 14 percent, according to the banker, who is a managing partner at his firm. 
 Glencore would contribute only its aluminum trading business and stakes in bauxite mines. Glencore's other commodity trading business would remain privately held. 
 An initial share float is planned within three years, according to the banker advising on the deal. The company would have a capitalization ''conservatively'' estimated at $30 billion, he said. 
 The merger would be a marriage of cheap production in Russia with bauxite mines abroad. Glencore owns mines in Ireland and Jamaica. Rusal now controls smelters but is short on bauxite, the raw ingredient of aluminum, in spite of a recent global buying spree. The other two companies have the opposite problem, with more bauxite than they can smelt. The merged company would blend the two strengths, according to the company official. 
 In a possible hint to the direction the Russians would steer the new company, a former chief executive of the global mining giant BHP Billiton is set to become chairman of the board. Mr. Gilbertson is currently chief executive of Sual. 
 Elsewhere, oil and gas are being consolidated into Gazprom and Rosneft, the state energy companies, and aircraft building is being merged into the state-owned Unified Aircraft Corporation. Some automotive and machine building have come under the state weapons trader, Rosoboronexport. 
 The proceeds from the initial public offering would be invested in mining assets outside of aluminum to meet a long-term strategy to form a global mining empire under Russian control, a company official said. He was not authorized to speak on the record because the company had not formally announced the talks. 
 The goal would be to transform the merged company with a wide business plan embracing most materials that are dug from the earth, like coal and nickel, and capable of competing with the likes of other diversified mining companies like BHP Billiton, the company official said. 
 Immediately after the merger, however, the combined company would produce about 4 million tons of aluminum a year, more than the 3.55 million tons Alcoa reported in 2005. 
 Alcoa, a famous name in American business and a century-old company, has said its global growth strategy is not focused on maintaining a No. 1 position, but rather on meeting its internal goals to maintain profitability. 
 The merged company would bring together three businessmen who all have a sense of swagger and colorful reputations, and who also all face varying degrees of legal risks. 
 Mr. Rich made his fortune as an independent oil trader in the 1970's, as the world switched from longer-term oil contracts to the spot market deals that persist today. He specialized in ''conflict trading,'' buying oil from distressed parts of the world such as Sudan and Libya. 
 Mr. Deripaska, Rusal's owner, emerged the winner of a struggle for the Siberian aluminum industry, known as the aluminum wars, after the collapse of the Soviet Union. He cemented his position in the Russian establishment in 2001 by marrying a woman who would soon be the stepgranddaughter of former President Boris N. Yeltsin. 
 Mr. Vekselberg, Sual's owner, whose best-known asset is a stake in the 50 percent Russian share of TNK-BP, a joint oil venture with BP, is Russia's fourth-richest man, according to Forbes magazine.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker at an aluminum company in Russia. A merger of Rusal, Russia's largest aluminum operator, its competitor, Sual, and the commodity trader Glencore International, could challenge Alcoa. (Photo by Dima Beliakov/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MERGERS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FUTURES (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); DIVESTITURES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); TAX FRAUD (66%) Aluminum; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (96%); GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL AG (92%); UNITED CO RUSAL LTD (92%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (80%); OAO GAZPROM (71%); SUAL INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Rusal Group ; Sual (Co); Glencore International Ag; Alcoa Inc

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (96%); AA (NYSE) (96%); GLEN (LSE) (92%); 0805 (HKSE) (92%); RUSAL (PAR) (92%); 0486 (HKSE) (92%); OGZD (LSE) (71%); GAZP (RTS) (71%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (96%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (92%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS331314 SECONDARY SMELTING & ALLOYING OF ALUMINUM (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (71%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (71%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (71%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: OLEG DERIPASKA (78%); BILL CLINTON (55%) Oleg V Deripaska; Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



620 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: 3 Candidates for Governor Offer Bleak View of New York

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The three leading candidates for governor painted a bleak picture of New York last night during a televised forum, where they lamented the faltering upstate economy, the state's troubled schools, and high taxes that squeeze homeowners and businesses.
 The Republican nominee, John Faso, a former state assemblyman, and the two men seeking the Democratic nomination, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, all gave remarkably similar diagnoses of what ails the state during a 90-minute forum in which they took questions from members of studio audiences assembled in Manhattan, Rochester, Syracuse and Rotterdam, near Albany. 
 When it came to their prescriptions for fixing the state, all three repeated their central campaign themes. 
 Mr. Faso spoke of the need to cut taxes and the other high costs that he said make the state inhospitable to business. Mr. Suozzi pointed to his success in Nassau County and spoke of the need to reform state government. And Mr. Spitzer presented himself as an optimist who has tackled tough issues before. 
 ''There's been a lot of pessimism tonight,'' said Mr. Spitzer, speaking from a stage at the Rochester Institute of Technology. ''There's been a lot of negative talk about how dire our circumstances are. And they're serious. And that is why we need to turn things around. But at the bottom of all this, I'm an optimist. If I weren't an optimist, I wouldn't be in this job. I wouldn't be seeking to become governor.''
 Given Mr. Spitzer's commanding lead in opinion polls, it was not too surprising that most of the political jabs of the night were aimed at him by his opponents. But because the forum -- which was televised by NY1 News in New York and other cable channels across the state -- was set up so that the candidates appeared consecutively instead of concurrently, with some beamed in from different cities, there was no opportunity for give and take between the candidates. At two of the sites -- Syracuse and Rotterdam -- there were no candidates, just the studio audiences.
 Mr. Faso, who appeared first, in Rochester, criticized Mr. Spitzer's support of a bill sought by environmentalists that would put deposits on bottles of noncarbonated beverages like iced tea and water, just as soda and beer bottles have now. 
 ''We shouldn't get nickeled and dimed to death by Eliot Spitzer or anybody else,'' he said, likening the deposit to a tax.
 Mr. Suozzi, speaking from a stage at Pace University in Lower Manhattan, suggested that Mr. Spitzer was too close to ''the power brokers'' to carry through on his promises to reform state government. 
 If their specific proposals were sometimes vague, the candidates still managed to convey some of their differences. 
 On schools, for example, Mr. Suozzi called for increasing school spending by $2.8 billion across the state. Mr. Spitzer said it would take $4 billion to $6 billion over the next few years to comply with a court order requiring the state to spend more on New York City's schools, and called for smaller classes and universal pre-kindergarten classes, among other things. Mr. Faso said troubled schools could not be fixed just by spending more money, and noted that he has long been a champion of charter schools and giving schools greater flexibility. 
 Mr. Suozzi complained, as he often does, that the political system is broken. 
 ''How can we have the highest taxes in America?'' he said. ''We have more people leaving our state than any state in the United States of America, 50 percent of our kids not graduating from schools in our cities, no jobs in upstate New York.'' 
 Mr. Spitzer spoke of expanding health care coverage, saying that if he is elected, he will make sure that 500,000 children in New York State who lack health insurance will be covered by the end of his first term. Mr. Faso spoke about lowering the costs of doing business in New York. ''We've got to make New York more competitive to keep businesses and jobs and young people here,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COUNTIES (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); TAX LAW (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TRENDS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); SOFT DRINKS (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%) Education and Schools; Election Issues; Taxation; Property Taxes; Economic Conditions and Trends; Primaries and Caucuses; Television

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (89%) Michael Cooper; John J Faso; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Thomas R Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



621 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: OFFICIALS REACH CALIFORNIA DEAL TO CUT EMISSIONS

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
California's political leaders announced an agreement on Wednesday that imposes the most sweeping controls on carbon dioxide emissions in the nation, putting the state at the forefront of a broad campaign to curb the man-made causes of climate change despite resistance in Washington.
 The deal between the Democratic-controlled Legislature and the Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, calls for a 25 percent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 2020, and could establish controls on the largest industrial sectors, including utilities, oil refineries and cement plants. The state has already placed strict limits on automobile emissions, although that move is being challenged in federal court.
The Bush administration has rejected the idea of similar national controls on carbon dioxide emissions, and efforts to get Congressional approval for such firm caps on emissions have repeatedly been defeated.
 Although the deal in California is strongly opposed by Republicans in the Legislature and many business leaders across the state, it assures that a bill on the restrictions will be passed before the legislative session ends Thursday and will be signed by Mr. Schwarzenegger, the leaders said Wednesday. 
 The first major controls are scheduled to begin in 2012, with the aim of reducing the emissions to their level in 1990. The legislation allows for incentives to businesses to help reach the goals, but opponents warn that the state may be sacrificing its economic interests for a quixotic goal.
 ''If our manufacturers leave, whether for North Carolina or China, and they take their greenhouse gases with them, we might not have solved the problem but exacerbated it instead,'' said Allan Zaremberg, the president of the state's Chamber of Commerce.
 Since taking office in 2003, Mr. Schwarzenegger, who is seeking reelection in November, has supported efforts to fight climate change, most recently by signing an agreement with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain to do cooperative research on new clean-energy technologies. 
 The governor said Wednesday that the deal struck with Democrats would make ''California a world leader in the effort to reduce carbon emissions.'' 
 ''The success of our system will be an example for other states and nations to follow as the fight against climate change continues,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger added. 
 The Assembly speaker, Fabian Nunez, who sponsored the bill along with Assemblywoman Fran Pavley, said at a news conference here, ''We feel that California has always been a leader in protecting the environment.'' 
 ''We now have moved it to the next level,'' said Mr. Nunez, a Los Angeles Democrat. ''We'd all like to see California one day be carbon free.'' 
 The state's action, he said, could set off a ''bottom-up'' movement for curbs of heat-trapping gases in states around the country. 
 That has been the goal of national environmental groups like Environmental Defense and the Natural Resources Defense Counsel, which helped sponsor the California legislation. It has also been the goal of Ms. Pavley, a Democrat from Agoura Hills and the author, in 2002, of a groundbreaking law reducing tailpipe emissions of heat-trapping gases.
 Already, the governors of New York, New Jersey, Delaware and four New England states have signed an agreement to curb power-plant emissions, cutting them by 10 percent by 2019. That would amount to about 24 million tons, said Dale Bryk of the New York office of the Natural Resources Defense Counsel, about one-seventh of the total envisioned in the California legislation, which will be an estimated 174 million tons. 
 Ms. Bryk added that Massachusetts and New Hampshire had enacted some emissions curbs, but that the number of power plants involved was minuscule compared with the California effort.
 A recent poll of Californians by the Public Policy Institute of California showed nearly four of five respondents said urgent action on climate change was needed.
 Aside from its long coastline, which could be vulnerable to sea-level rises due to global warming, the state depends on the Sierra Nevada snow pack for much of its water. 
 A study in 2004 by the National Academy of Science showed that unchecked global warming would cut the size of the snow pack by at least 29 percent by the end of the century. It also predicted a doubling in the number of heat waves, like the record-breaking one in July that killed 139 people statewide.
 The deal on Wednesday on the emissions legislation nearly foundered at least three times in the past week as Mr. Schwarzenegger's negotiators reached seeming impasses with the Legislature over important issues: whether the bill would require the creation of market mechanisms like emissions credits to help industries meet the new standards; how broad to make exemptions during emergencies like the state's electricity crisis six years ago, and how to administer and enforce the law.
 In the end, after three weeks filled with late-night sessions, according to legislative staffers who were not authorized to speak for attribution, Mr. Nunez met with Mr.. Schwarzenegger on Wednesday morning and said that the Assembly and the Senate had agreed on final language and intended to enact the legislation with or without his consent. 
 That left the governor to decide whether the final language fell so far short of his wishes that he could take the political risk during an election year of vetoing a signature piece of environmental legislation whose aims he had supported.
 In the end, the governor and the legislative leaders, including the Senate president, Don Perata, Democrat of Oakland, announced their agreement.
 Ralph Cavanagh, the co-director of the energy program of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a telephone interview: ''This is not an act of altruism. This is an act of enlightened self-interest. By accelerating the effort to reduce global warming pollution, California will benefit its own economy and environment and in so doing will set the best possible example for other states and nations.''
 Business leaders had been divided on the climate-change measure, with leading venture capitalists from Silicon Valley openly stumping for passage, saying the measure will create new industries and new jobs. The state's Chamber of Commerce led the opposition, saying that the measure would prompt an exodus of industry to other states without emission controls, while California would be hamstrung in trying to attract out-of-state businesses.
 The bill gives the California Air Resources Board, which enforces the state's air pollution controls, the lead authority for generally establishing how much industry groups contribute to global warming pollution, for assigning emission targets, and for setting noncompliance penalties. It sets out a two-year time frame, until 2009, to establish how the system will operate and then allows three years, until 2012, for the industries to start their cutbacks.
 Peter Darbee, the chairman and chief executive of Pacific Gas and Electric, broke with his industry as PG&E became the first and possibly only major utility in the state to support the legislation, called the Global Warming Solutions Act. 
 ''The issue of climate change is important and needs to be dealt with,'' Mr. Darbee said. ''We need a pragmatic and practical result. Since the bill has a market-based program, it will work efficiently and effectively for businesses.''
 A safety-valve provision that, in an emergency, could give companies a year's hiatus in complying with their mandates, was also key, he said.
 Wednesday's announcement is significant for Mr. Schwarzenegger's re-election campaign, potentially vaulting the governor beyond his Democratic challenger's reach.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, whose popularity plummeted after a group of polarizing ballot initiatives failed at the polls last year, has been steadily pedaling to the left for months, supporting legislation to increase the state's minimum wage, to make some prescription drugs more accessible and to improve the state's environment by adding thousands of subsidized solar roofs over the next decade.
 His strategy seems to be to appeal to the sensibilities of voters that have long driven the state's politics and to distance himself openly from President Bush. Recent polls suggest that Mr. Schwarzenegger enjoys a wide lead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (95%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); APPROVALS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); CEMENT MFG (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (62%) Weather; Weather; Weather; Law and Legislation; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: California Chamber of Commerce

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (79%); TONY BLAIR (50%) Felicity Barringer; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%) California

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



622 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Israeli Raid Kills 9 in Gaza; Tunnel Is Found 

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Warren Hoge contributed reporting from Ramallah, West Bank, for this article.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
A continuing Israeli offensive in the Gaza Strip killed nine people on Wednesday, including four civilians, one of them a 14-year-old who had gathered with his friends to watch the fighting.
 Since early Sunday, the Israelis have been looking for smuggling tunnels and explosives in northern Gaza City. Palestinian officials said 19 people had been killed in airstrikes and fighting, most of them militants.
 On Wednesday, the Israelis announced that they had discovered a large tunnel stretching about 150 yards from a house toward the Karni cargo crossing between Gaza and Israel. The crossing has been closed by the Israelis much of the time in recent months because of security alerts -- since Aug. 16 in the latest round. When the crossing is shut, it is very difficult to move goods into or out of Gaza. 
 The tunnel began in a building about half a mile from the border fence, apparently so the digging would not be visible. In a statement, the Israeli Army said, ''The tunnel was intended to be used for a large-scale terror attack, apparently against the crossing itself.''
 On June 25, Palestinian militants used a long tunnel near Rafah to enter Israel, kill two Israeli soldiers and capture another, Cpl. Gilad Shalit, who remains in captivity. Three days later, Israeli forces entered Gaza for the first time since withdrawing last August and have been fighting there since then, to try to gain the release of Corporal Shalit, throughout the 34-day second-front war in Lebanon.
 The United States has proposed strengthening security at Karni by placing 90 international monitors on the Palestinian side and constructing better facilities there. Israel says it will consider the proposal only after Corporal Shalit is freed.
 The American proposal would expand Karni, a lifeline for Gaza and the main point of entry or exit for goods, and the foreign monitors, probably European like those at the Rafah crossing between Gaza and Egypt, would oversee the work of the Palestinians. An American official said that contrary to early reports, no American monitors would be involved.
 In the West Bank, the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, called on Palestinian militants, as he has before, to stop firing rockets into Israel. Mr. Abbas said that too many Palestinians were dying in Gaza, as Israel responded to the attacks. ''What is happening in Gaza as a result of rockets fired in vain must stop right now because there is no interest in this continuing,'' he said.
 Mr. Abbas, of Fatah, was speaking to nearly 3,000 Palestinian civil servants protesting the failure of the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority to pay their salaries, while a smaller, similar rally took place in Gaza City, with 200 children of civil servants protesting outside the offices of Prime Minister Ismail Haniya, of Hamas. On Tuesday, 300 unemployed Palestinian workers surrounded the parliament building and scuffled with the police.
 Mr. Abbas is scheduled to go to Gaza City on Thursday for more conversations with Mr. Haniya about the formation of a national-unity government that might persuade Israel and Western nations to lift their freeze on aid money that helps support the Palestinian Authority. The freeze was imposed soon after Hamas won Palestinian elections in January. Hamas has rejected demands that it recognize Israel's right to exist, renounce violence and accept previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements.
 Mr. Abbas met Wednesday with the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan. At a joint news conference, Mr. Annan said, ''The suffering of the Palestinian people must not be forgotten as we strive to bring peace to the people of Lebanon.'' He added: ''Over 200 Palestinians have been killed since the end of June. This must end immediately.
 ''I have made my feelings known in talks with Israeli officials,'' he said. ''Beyond preserving life, we have to sustain life. The closure of Gaza must be lifted, the crossing points must be opened, not just to allow goods in but to allow Palestinian exports out as well.''
 Mr. Annan said he had also spoken to Mr. Abbas about the continuing efforts to secure the release of Corporal Shalit, the need to end Palestinian attacks on Israel, and the long-running issue of Palestinian prisoners in Israel.
 Yuval Diskin, the chief of Israel's Shin Bet security agency, said in testimony before Parliament on Wednesday that Palestinian militants were smuggling large amounts of weapons, including rockets, through as many as 20 tunnels dug under the Gaza-Egypt border. 
 The border is supposed to be controlled by Egypt and the Palestinians, with Europeans monitoring the formal crossing terminal at Rafah. But the Europeans are not responsible for patrolling the border itself.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A relative grieved yesterday at a Gaza City morgue near the body of a Palestinian man who was killed in an Israeli offensive in the Gaza Strip. (Photo by Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HAMAS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (83%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRORISM (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); AL FATAH (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); ARMIES (75%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); ARMED FORCES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%) Palestinians; United States International Relations

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (79%) Steven Erlanger; Gilad (Cpl) Shalit

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (79%); EGYPT (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip; Karni (Israel); Rafah (Gaza Strip); Israel

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



623 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Storm Fizzles As It Heads For Carolinas

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
The storm called Ernesto headed north toward the Carolinas on Wednesday after puffing through much of Florida with no more vigor than an ordinary summer squall.
 The weakened storm, which briefly reached hurricane force south of Cuba, emerged into the Atlantic near Cape Canaveral late Wednesday and was expected to hit the Carolinas late Thursday with winds of perhaps 50 miles an hour. The National Hurricane Center said it was expected to regain some strength. 
Jack Beven, a senior hurricane specialist at the National Hurricane Center, said the storm would probably make landfall in South Carolina. But Mr. Beven said it could also stay at sea a bit longer and not turn inland again until reaching North Carolina.
 ''There's always that uncertainty,'' Mr. Beven said. ''It's always possible it could go a bit to the left or a bit to the right.'' 
 In South Carolina, Charleston and the coastal counties announced the closing of government offices, schools and some medical centers on Thursday, but evacuation remained voluntary. 
 In North Carolina, where state officials said they expected only minor flooding, Gov. Michael F. Easley activated 150 National Guard troops. 
 The storm is expected to continue north from the Carolinas, diminishing and possibly bringing some wet weather to the Northeast. 
 Forecasters had expected the storm to strike South Florida with winds of close to 74 m.p.h., the minimum speed for a hurricane, and to flood some areas. But it arrived with winds of 45 m.p.h. at most, and Max Mayfield, the director of the hurricane center, renewed an appeal to Congress for more money for research and tracking equipment.
 ''We don't know for sure why it didn't intensify'' after leaving Cuba, Mr. Mayfield told reporters. ''But it certainly underscores that we have to do a better job of intensity forecasting.''
 Forecasters have improved their ability to estimate where a hurricane will strike. But fluctuations in atmospheric conditions that can dampen, strengthen and steer tropical storms limit their precision there as well. At their best, forecasters say that a day in advance they can estimate within about 70 miles where a storm will hit. 
 In South Florida, the storm disrupted the lives of millions. Schools closed on Tuesday and Wednesday, as did most businesses shut. But there was little damage, and even the four to six inches of rain that fell was easily absorbed. Officials attributed one highway death to the storm, and two women were hospitalized after a steel hurricane shutter fell on them.
 Economists estimated the losses to businesses at less than $10 million. 
 ''It was a very small blip in a state with an annual economy of $634 billion,'' said J. Antonio Villamil, chairman of Gov. Jeb Bush's council of economic advisers. 
 The minor nature of the storm did not become fully clear in South Florida until late Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ryan Soriano, 15, loaded mats at a shelter in Palm Beach County, Fla. (Photo by Erik M. Lunsford/The Palm Beach Post, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (94%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); CLOSINGS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Ernesto (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: National Hurricane Center; National Guard (US) 

PERSON: MIKE EASLEY (77%) Joseph B Treaster; Michael F (Gov) Easley

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) Florida ; North Carolina; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



624 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan Seeks Another Anti-U.S. Ally in Syria 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela received a hero's welcome on Wednesday in Syria, where he said the two countries would ''build a new world'' free of domination by the United States and vowed to ''dig the grave of U.S. imperialism.'' 
 Thousands of Syrians waved banners and Venezuelan flags along Mr. Chavez's route to a meeting with President Bashar al-Assad.
His visit was the latest in a series of international stops where he has emphasized his opposition to Washington's global influence and advanced what he calls a multipolar vision of world affairs. His trips also coincide with Venezuela's push to win a rotating seat on the United Nations Security Council despite opposition from the United States. 
 Venezuela, the world's fifth-largest oil exporter, is consistently among the top sources of imported oil to the United States. But Mr. Chavez has cultivated close ties with Iran, Syria and Cuba, while his relations with the Bush administration have grown more tense.
 On Wednesday he against emphasized the role that cooperation between Venezuela and Syria, which is under increasing pressure from the Bush administration, could play in curbing ambitions by the United States. 
 ''No matter how strong the American empire becomes and no matter how much force it uses, it will be defeated,'' he said. ''We and Syria as well as other countries will be an army of tigers, struggling and strong.''
 Speaking at the airport shortly after Mr. Chavez arrived, President Assad said the two countries shared a common stand, ''rejection of international hegemony,'' Syria's official news agency said. 
 Mr. Assad expressed support for Venezuela's bid to obtain the Security Council seat. The United States is supporting Guatemala.
 Mr. Chavez also called for Israeli troops to withdraw from Lebanon and demanded the lifting of the Israeli blockade against Lebanon.
 The Venezuelan leader has compared Israel's airstrikes in Lebanon to the Holocaust, and earlier this month withdrew his country's top diplomat from Israel to protest those attacks and Israel's actions toward the Palestinians.
 Mr. Chavez and Mr. Assad met for two and a half hours at the presidential palace in Damascus. With the two leaders looking on, delegates from the two countries signed 13 political and economic agreements. Mr. Chavez also said Venezuela was willing to help construct an oil refinery that Syria is considering, with a capacity of 200,000 barrels a day.
 An audience of students and dignitaries applauded Mr. Chavez's 10-minute speech after he received an honorary doctorate in international relations.
 Asked about the visit to Syria, a spokesman for the United States State Department, Tom Casey, said Mr. Chavez should remind Damascus about preventing Hezbollah from receiving weapons.
 ''We think what's important for anyone having discussions with the Syrian government to do, is to emphasize the need for Syria to meet its international obligations,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); ARMIES (73%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); HEZBOLLAH (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) Hezbollah

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Bashar Al- (Pres) Assad; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); ISRAEL (95%); LEBANON (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) Venezuela; Syria; Israel; Lebanon; Iran; Cuba; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



625 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

SILICON VALLEY POWER ALLIANCE When Google's chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, left, was named to Apple Computer's board this week, the announcement touched off a wave of speculation about the motives of the man behind the move: Apple's co-founder, Steven P. Jobs. [Page A1.] 


CALIFORNIA EMISSIONS BILL California's political leaders announced an agreement that imposes the most sweeping controls on carbon-dioxide emissions in the nation, putting the state at the forefront of a broad campaign to curb the man-made causes of climate change despite resistance in Washington. [A1.]

FILLING UP ON CORN A 2,100-mile drive through the region where ethanol fuel is most popular revealed that despite all the good will toward E-85, as the corn-based fuel blend is known, its success is far from assured. [C1.]

LOOPHOLE FOR FLEXIBLE FUEL As car companies promote E-85 as an alternative to gasoline, they are benefiting from a loophole that allows them to receive credits toward environmental standards when they sell flexible-fuel vehicles that run on the ethanol-based fuel. [C4.]

ECONOMY EXPANDED IN QUARTER The economy grew more quickly in the second quarter than initially estimated and inflation was slightly lower, the Commerce Department reported. [C1.]

STOCKS EDGE UP The Dow average and the Nasdaq rose slightly in thin trading, helped by a government report showing economic growth remains reasonably strong. [C13.]

JITTERS OVER HURRICANES All along the coasts, from Texas to New England, insurers suffering from hurricane jitters are raising rates and cutting back on coverage. But nowhere is the crisis more severe than in Florida, where storms in recent years have added billions to the insurers' losses. [C1.]

PESSIMISM AMONG WORKERS Three new opinion polls found deep pessimism among American workers, with most saying that wages were not keeping pace with inflation and that workers were worse off in many ways than a generation ago. [A21.]

ALCATEL DEFENDS LUCENT DEAL With a week to go before a crucial vote on a deal that would reshape the telecommunications equipment industry, Alcatel disputed criticism about its planned takeover of Lucent and insisted that the deal would benefit shareholders. [C3.]

COKE EXECUTIVE LEAVES The president of Coca-Cola's North American unit, Donald R. Knauss, resigned abruptly to become chairman and chief executive of Clorox. [C3.]

G.M. DROPS 'SURVIVOR' ADS General Motors has decided not to advertise on the CBS reality show ''Survivor'' for the upcoming season, one that has attracted criticism because teams of contestants are being pitted against each other based on race. Advertising. [C3.]

NEW ALUMINUM GIANT Alcoa may face a rival for global dominance if a tentative merger of two Russian aluminum companies and a major Swiss commodity trader comes to fruition. Should Alcoa drop from its No. 1 spot it would be partly a reflection of wider industrial shifts that now favor Russia's commodity-driven economy. [C5.]

TiVo'S LOSS CLIMBS TiVo reported a quarterly loss that was seven times the size of its loss a year ago, largely because of hefty legal costs associated with a high-stakes intellectual property patent dispute. [C4.]

NOT GUILTY PLEA IN OPTIONS CASE The former chief executive of Brocade Communications Systems, Gregory L. Reyes, pleaded not guilty to 12 counts of securities fraud and other charges that he improperly backdated employee stock option grants. [C11.]

NO ACTION ON SHELL'S EX-CHIEF The Securities and Exchange Commission has decided to take no action against Sir Philip Watts, the former chief executive of Royal Dutch Shell, over the 2004 scandal involving the overbooking of oil reserves. [C11.]

REVERSAL OF VIOXX AWARD Merck won the first reversal of a damage award over its Vioxx painkiller when a judge said that a $51 million verdict was ''grossly excessive.'' [C11.]

ONLINE

DEALBOOK Daily news on mergers and acquisitions, I.P.O.'s, venture capital and more is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

HUGE APARTMENT SALE With a target price of nearly $5 billion, the sale of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village would be the biggest deal for a single U.S. property in modern times. A report is at nytimes.com/realestate.

UNLIKELY DORM MATES Barnard College has built a dormitory where faculty members occupy the same floors and share laundry facilities and common space with students. A report is at nytimes.com/business.

ONCE AND FUTURE MILEAGE KING Can an automobile be ahead of its time and yet be obsolete? As it heads into retirement, the Honda Insight certainly looks that way. A report is at nytimes.com/business.

BUSINESS AFTER KATRINA A year after Hurricane Katrina, many small businesses are open across New Orleans, but times are tough and their survival is in doubt. A multimedia report is at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Alcoa shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MERGERS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (74%); ALCOHOLS (74%); TAKEOVERS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); INSURANCE (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); REALITY TELEVISION (63%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (61%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (61%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); APPLE INC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); ALCOA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); GM (NYSE) (51%); KO (NYSE) (51%); AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (91%); STEVEN JOBS (74%); DONALD R KNAUSS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



626 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Data on U.S. Growth Helps Shares to Rise

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrials and the Nasdaq market rose modestly yesterday in thin trading, helped by revised Commerce Department data that showed that economic growth remained reasonably strong.
 The gross domestic product, the output of all goods and services within the United States, grew in the second quarter at a 2.9 percent annual pace, faster than the 2.5 percent initially reported. That was a catalyst for stocks as stronger growth can lead to improved corporate profits.
 Milton Ezrati, senior economic strategist at Lord Abbett & Company in Jersey City, remarked, ''The G.D.P. was revised up, which would make people think perhaps the economy was not as weak as they thought.'' 
 But comments late in the afternoon from Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, took some of the shine off the market's advance. Mr. Lacker, speaking on Bloomberg television, said that slowing economic growth might not be enough to reduce inflation -- briefly leading stocks to pare their gains.
 His comments followed the release of minutes on Tuesday from the Fed's Aug. 8 meeting, which had helped cement the view of many investors that the Fed would not soon have to raise interest rates again. The Fed left rates steady at that meeting, pausing in a campaign of quarter-point increases in short-term rates that began in June 2004.
 Yesterday was the fifth consecutive day of gains on the Nasdaq and the third day of gains for the Dow industrials. The industrial average rose 12.97 points, or 0.11 percent, to 11,382.91. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was essentially flat, down a mere 0.01 point, finishing at 1,304.27. The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index was up 13.43 points, or 0.62 percent, to 2,185.73. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies rose 5.73 points, or 0.8 percent, to 720.58.
 On the New York Stock Exchange, advancing stocks outnumbered those declining by 5 to 3. Trading was light, with more than 1.27 billion shares changing hands, well below last year's daily average of 1.61 billion.
 Procter & Gamble provided the biggest boost to the S.& P. 500 and helped contribute to the Dow industrials' gain after UBS raised its price target on the consumer products company. P.& G. shares rose 55 cents, to $61.75.
 Apple Computer advanced 48 cents, to $66.96, after Apple said Google's chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, would join its board. 
 Pier 1 Imports jumped 41 cents, or 6.8 percent, to $6.47, after it said it had agreed to sell its private-label credit card operations to J. P. Morgan Chase for about $155 million. J. P. Morgan stock declined 24 cents, to $45.73.
 Energy company shares slid, reflecting declines in recent days in crude oil prices. Yesterday, though, oil for October delivery rose 35 cents a barrel, to $70.03, on the New York Mercantile Exchange on traders' covering of short-sale contracts.
 Exxon Mobil lost $1.11, to $68.30. ConocoPhillips dropped $1.19, to $63.50. Chevron shares shed 55 cents, to $65.19.
 A loser among larger Nasdaq stocks was Costco Wholesale, which issued a profit warning. Costco shares dropped $2.07, or 4.2 percent, to $47.18.
 In the bond market, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 6/32, to 100 30/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.75 percent from 4.78 percent late Tuesday.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of five-year notes and 14-day cash management bills.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.502
High Yield: 4.738
Low Yield: 4.694
Median Yield: 4.720
Total applied for: $47,036,541
Accepted: $17,5000,001
Noncompetitive: $215,541
Interest set at: 4 5/8

The five-year notes mature Aug. 31, 2011.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.798
Investment Rate: 5.252
High Rate: 5.170
Low Rate: 5.140
Median Rate: 5.160
Total applied for: $70,816,000
Accepted: $29,000,120
Noncompetitive: $1,000

The 14-day cash management bills mature Sept. 15, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CREDIT CARDS (66%); PRIVATE LABELS (60%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (81%); LORD ABBETT & CO (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (70%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (50%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (81%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); PIR (NYSE) (50%); JPM (NYSE) (50%); JPM (LSE) (50%); 8634 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (50%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (50%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (50%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (50%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (50%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006



627 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Students' Paths To Small Colleges Can Bypass SAT

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
It is still far too early to sound the death knell, but for many small liberal arts colleges, the SAT may have outlived its usefulness.
 Since Bowdoin and Bates dropped their testing requirements decades ago, more than a fourth of U.S. News & World Report's Top 100 liberal arts colleges have made admissions exams optional, and new ones are joining the list at a quickening pace.
 The new colleges include Mount Holyoke, Middlebury, Hamilton, Union and Dickinson. In recent months, George Mason, Providence College and Hobart and William Smith Colleges have also become test-optional. 
 Admissions officers said eliminating the testing requirement had increased both the size and diversity of their applicant pools, and bolstered their reputation as places personal enough to consider each applicant individually. 
 At the same time, the revamped, longer SAT, the drop in average scores announced Tuesday and recent problems with scoring have created growing disenchantment. College officials also say that tests -- whether the SAT, or in the Midwest, the ACT -- are not the best predictors of performance. 
 ''Test scores are a much weaker predictor of how students will do in college than their high school transcript,'' said Mark Gearan, the president of Hobart and William Smith. ''We really know our applicants, because we have an admissions staff that can read every essay, have a personal interview and review the high school transcript in depth.'' 
 Half a century ago, the SAT was a tool for opening college access to students who did not come from elite schools, a steppingstone to academic meritocracy. But many admissions officers now see the test as a barrier to low-income students and those who do not speak English at home. 
 Test scores, college officials say, present a skewed picture both of poor students who have had little formal preparation, and wealthy ones who spend thousands of dollars -- not to mention evenings, weekends and summers -- on tutoring. 
 ''We felt the system had gotten out of whack,'' said Steve Syverson, dean of admissions at Lawrence University, which admitted its first test-optional freshmen this year. ''Back when kids just got a good night's sleep and took the SAT, it was a leveler that helped you find the diamond in the rough. Now that most of the great scores are affluent kids with lots of preparation, it just increases the gap between the haves and the have-nots.'' 
 Test-optional admissions also allow colleges to admit interesting students with low scores, without pulling down rankings by U.S. News & World Report and others who use SAT scores to rate colleges. In fact, test-optional admissions may raise rankings because low scores are unlikely to be submitted. 
 More than 700 colleges and universities are test-optional, but most accept nearly all their applicants. For now, the SAT and ACT remain a rite of passage for students applying to colleges that are more selective in their admissions. There is also no evidence that guidance counselors are advising students to skip testing, and most applicants still submit scores to test-optional colleges. 
 But that could change. 
 ''We are now at a point where, if you're interested in a liberal arts education at the best schools in the country, you can put together a good portfolio of colleges to apply to and not take the test,'' said Robert Schaeffer, the public education director of FairTest, a group critical of standardized testing. 
 The College Board, which administers the SAT, sees the trend as wrong-headed, but no real threat. ''Even if half of the best small schools in America go test-optional,'' said Gaston Caperton, president of the College Board, ''it's a minimal number of students.'' 
 Of the nation's 17 million college students, fewer than 250,000 attend the top 100 liberal arts colleges. 
 ''At a time when the United States is vying internationally for excellence,'' Mr. Caperton said, ''it's very contrary to any decision-making process, in business or education, not to use the data that's available. If I were a parent, applying to a selective school, I would prefer them to use all the data they possibly can.''
 But many families visiting test-optional colleges have a different preference. ''I think SAT-optional is great, it's wonderful,'' said Lynne Brandes, of Hanover, Mass., who took her daughter, Jacqueline, on a New England college tour this summer. ''Some families have the money to pay for tutoring, but some don't. I'd love to see the SAT's abolished.'' 
 At test-optional colleges, admissions officers say they look forward to students' liberation from testing. 
 ''We hope that now that there are more test-optional schools, students will think about not taking it, and putting their time and money into other activities, like music or writing or community service,'' said Jane B. Brown, vice president for enrollment at Mount Holyoke, which dropped the SAT requirement in 2001. ''We hope they will have more interesting lives.'' 
 But most admissions officials at selective colleges continue to rely on standardized test scores. ''They're especially useful for evaluating the rural Midwestern kid who's No. 1 in a graduating class of nine at a high school you don't know,'' said Paul Thiboutot, dean of admissions at Carleton College. 
 William Shain, the dean of admissions at Bowdoin, has seen the pros and cons. Last year, he was at Vanderbilt, where tests are required. At Bowdoin, the first and most selective college to become test-optional -- admitting fewer than a quarter of its applicants -- Mr. Shain is mindful that each student admitted without scores displaces one with stellar scores and grades. He also said test scores become more helpful as high school transcripts provide fewer clear indicators of students' abilities. 
 ''Many schools won't do rankings, there's enormous grade inflation, and parents help write some of the essays,'' he said. ''It's not so easy to disentangle from SAT's. Even the bond-rating people, when a college borrows money, look at SAT scores.'' 
 True, neither the Ivy League nor most large universities are about to drop their testing requirements. At the Ivies, anything that helps differentiate among hordes of highly qualified applicants is useful. And many large public universities do admissions by the numbers. But some state universities have minimized their use of SAT scores. For example, Texas students in the top 10 percent of their high school classes are automatically admitted to the University of Texas or Texas A&M. 
 Growth in test-optional admissions would be bad news for test-preparation companies like Kaplan, which this month issued a news release playing down the trend and warning that students who plan to apply only to test-optional colleges are ''limiting their options.'' 
 Admissions requirements vary widely, even among test-optional colleges. Middlebury, for example, is not entirely test-optional, but it allows students to substitute three subject exams -- Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate or SAT II's -- for the SAT or ACT. Like several others, it also asks students for a graded high school paper. 
 At Bates College, William Hiss, the vice president for external affairs, said the policy helps attract exceptional students who might not otherwise apply. Lien Le, a Vietnamese refugee with an SAT verbal score of 400, who applied to Bates without submitting her scores, earned a biology degree magna cum laude and then got a medical degree at Brown. 
 ''Sure, all the kids who get SAT's over 700 have real academic strengths,'' he said. ''But can you say that all the kids who get under 600 don't, that they won't do well?'' 
 No, according to Bates's 20-year study of test-optional admissions, finding that the graduation rate of those who submitted scores differed by only one-tenth of a percent from that of students who did not, about a third of Bates' students. 
 ''Human intelligence and ambition is more complex, more multifaceted, than any standardized testing system can capture,'' Mr. Hiss said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A sample SAT answer sheet. (Photo by John Nordell/The Christian Science Monitor, via Getty Images)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%) Colleges and Universities; Sat (College Admission Test); Tests and Testing; Admissions Standards; Tutors and Tutoring; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (73%)

ORGANIZATION: PROVIDENCE COLLEGE (57%); ACT (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (73%)

PERSON: Tamar Lewin

GEOGRAPHIC: HOBART, AUSTRALIA (91%) MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

 
