

201 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: The World;
O.K., the Ruble's Junk. Not to Worry. Russians Get By.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
IT'S already autumn in Russia, and as a pleasure drive along any country road outside the capital will reveal, the countryside is a riot of beautiful flowers. It is also a riot of Mickey Mouse beach towels, fresh and not-so-fresh fruit, various grades of motor oil, stuffed toys, bricks, pillows, used furniture, just-picked mushrooms and, in at least one instance, gravestones, available with your choice of inscription.
From the daisies to the markers, they are all for sale, by householders and their children who sit patiently by the roadside in straight-backed chairs dragged from their homes, eking out a few extra rubles in the after hours. 
 Such riots are one reason there have not yet been riots in the face of Russia's deepening economic gloom.
Life in Russia is hard -- harder still, because so many expected better this time. But this is the nation that coped with the Golden Horde, Ivan the Terrible, the siege of Leningrad and Communism, and outlived them all. Coping is in the national genetic code, a source of humor and pride and even song: "Anything but the war," goes a refrain from a popular Soviet-era tune.
In a nation where workers go months without pay, basic services are spotty and the currency is losing its worth, Russians' ability to cope may be Boris N. Yeltsin's salvation, too. Americans lose their cool when that lever on the ice-cube maker gets stuck and the bin in the freezer isn't replenished. Russians live in a freezer with not much more ill humor, and considerably more ingenuity.
 
Rats Get a Break
In Vladivostok, on the Sea of Japan, a prolonged drought this summer rendered water supplies non-potable and limited working faucets to but a few hours a day. Strikes and bankruptcies in the coal industry made electricity a sometime thing at best. The city is broke and many toilets don't work. By the way, the Mayor also suspended rat extermination last spring.
Some 635,000 people live in Vladivostok, most of whom could not take regular baths this summer because of the drought. For entertainment, they turned to hand-cranked generators to power radios and televisions. To eat, they cooked on Bunsen burners. To bathe, one woman slept with her faucet turned on, so that a sudden decision by the water works to begin pumping -- usually in the dead of night -- would produce a sudden blast of water and awaken her.
This is the sort of things Russians do in place of just complaining. The woman with the ever-ready bathtub has a friend, an American who edits The Vladivostok News, who wrote in The Moscow Times that he left his faucet on, too -- and flooded his apartment.
In Russia, coping literally starts at childbirth. The average Russian family consists of a couple and one child, and few have more than two. In Soviet times, the reason was simple: children were too expensive. Moreover, housing was so cramped -- with husband, wife and in-laws sometimes stuffed into two rooms that shared a kitchen with three or four other apartments -- that more children were not only too much to bear but too difficult to create amid paper-thin walls.
Under capitalism, the apartments are being combined to create middle-class residences. Unfortunately, all else remains the same for Russians beneath the middle class, except that their pay is less than it was and they frequently have been evicted by landlords seeking better-paying tenants. In such cases, they and their lower-class country cousins resort to time-honored Russian coping tactics, honed under years of Communism.
The principal ploy, called "blat," is a way of getting something -- a new carburetor or theater tickets or an introduction to an employer -- by leaning on someone to whom you have granted a favor. One might call it string-pulling, but it is really a social convention, a form of barter that fills a real need that the Soviet system would not satisfy, and that capitalism so far cannot.
Where blat does not suffice, Russians turn to relatives. Parents work past retirement to feed their jobless or employed-but-not-paid children. Rural families get packages from their city relatives; city folk get food from backyard gardens that have become absolutely essential to winter survival in the boondocks.
And not only the boondocks. It is seriously believed by some that Russians have been so compliant in the face of adversity this autumn because they are so busy tending their gardens and hoarding for winter; this leaves no opportunity for full-time protest. Some units of the ill-fed Russian Army were granted leave this summer to pick mushrooms, a national passion that for some has become a necessity as well.
 
Free Lunch
In some of Russia's most remote reaches, coal miners have been on strike for months, raising families without drawing pay. They survive in part on the vegetables and chickens in their yards, in part on the money their wives earn at jobs or by selling handmade goods, and in part on a Communist-era holdover -- the factory lunch, which they still get and take home.
There is charity: American-style philanthropy, through Rotary clubs and similar organizations, is taking root. Submarine-builders in the Far East who have not been paid for 16 months survive in part on free bread, doled out through passes from a local baker.
And there is subversion of the system, sometimes called theft. True to the old Communist notion that the people own the nation's means of production, workers have been known to quietly claim their share of coal, autos and other necessities of life.
Sometimes they cut out the middleman and make the products themselves. Although Russia's production of raw ethyl alcohol is dramatically increasing -- up 12 percent in the first half of 1998 from a year before -- the vodka production of Government-sanctioned companies is plummeting. Indeed, legitimate producers of vodka make up a mere 29 percent of the market, the Government said recently. The rest appears to be controlled by a thriving industry of bootleggers.
Which suggests that however difficult it is for average Russians to cope with the collapse of their economy, capitalism has some life left in it yet.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 13, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Sept. 6 comparing the economies of the former Soviet Union and Russia misstated the per capita gross domestic product. According to the World Bank, the G.D.P., in 1998 dollars, was $6,190 in 1988 and $4,269 in 1996.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A company that picked up corpses in Vladivostok ran out of money, leaving police to do the job. Sometimes. (Associated Press)
 
Map/Chart: "Then and Now"
THE SOVIET UNION IN 1988
Just Prior to its break-up, the Soviet Union was an empire composed of 15 republics; in addition, it indirectly ruled and economically and militarily benefitted from, a number of satellite Communist states.
Population: 286 million (1988)
Gross Domestic Product: $3.2 trillion (1995 dollars)
Per capita G.D.P: $3,864.8 (1995 dollars)
Life expectancy, men: 64 years (1989)
Life expectancy, women: 74 years (1989)
Soldiers (in millions): 5.2
Tanks: 53,300
Nuclear warheads: 37,300; 11,600 strategic, 25,700 non-strategic.
 
RUSSIA IN 1998
The Russian Federation now teters on the verge of economic and political collapse, with a gross domestic product close to that of Mexico and a much depleted military arsenal.
Population: 148 million (1997)
Gross Domestic Product: $796 billion (1995)
Per capita G.D.P: $5,300 (1995)
Life expectancy, men: 57.2 years (1996)
Life expectancy, women: 70.7 years (1996)
Soldiers (in millions): 1.4; 0.6 not battle ready, 0.8 battle ready
Tanks: 14,000; 8,000 not battle ready, 6,000 battle ready
Nuclear warheads: 10,500; 6,500 strategic, 4,000 non-strategic
 
(Sources: Dr. Mark Galeotti, University of Keele, Britain; Natural Resources Defense Council; Information Please Almanac; The International Institute for Strategic Studies; World Almanac)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY RIOTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (52%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1998



202 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2288 words

HEADLINE: Generation Wallpaper;
A tribe of newly affluent global nomads has a magazine to tell them who they are.

BYLINE: By JULIA CHAPLIN 

 BODY:
IF a tabloid television talk show decided to visit downtown Manhattan, Kelly Galligan and Ed Briggs -- proudly seated on a recently bought 1950's square-cornered sofa in their apartment -- would make ideal guests for an episode called "We Traded the Grunge Life for an Eames Chair."
The couple admit, sheepishly, that they were once slackers who blasted Nirvana and made a pact to stay unemployed during the Gulf War so they could watch CNN. Today, Ms. Galligan is gainfully working at a new media production company in Silicon Alley and Mr. Briggs works in the art department of the television show "Law and Order." And like a large number of their fellow downtowners, they've chosen mid-century modernism -- the industrial, futuristic design style of the 1950's and 60's -- to mark their transition to affluence. 
 Wearing a Calvin Klein tank top, slim jeans and black rubber Adidas sandals, Ms. Galligan, 31, described how one day they put their funky votive candles and wrought-iron bed into storage and painted their natural-wood floors a lacquered black. They filled their Chelsea apartment with such modernica as a fiberglass 50's Tulip chair by Eero Saarinen, a shag rug, an amoeba-shaped coffee table and two space age chrome lamps they found on the Internet.
"We call it the Change," Mr. Briggs, 46, said. "A lot of our friends have gone through it, too. They show up for work one day wearing yellow-tinted prescription glasses, the next it's Gucci loafers and finally the long hair gets chopped off."
A wave of downtowners who once embodied the "Rent" life style, partial to thrift-store fashions and long hours at coffee houses, has been transformed into an upwardly mobile, entrepreneurial crowd. They can be described as the Wallpaper Generation, after the two-year-old design and life-style magazine that has given an ultra-hip spin to the retro-future look of the postwar decades.
It is a generation that breathes technology, fast travel and designer labels. Above all, it wants to be stylishly poised for the millennium -- in 70's-inspired Gucci clothes, conducting international business on a tiny Motorola cell phone, while lounging on a Florence Knoll sofa, circa 1954, like the one in Tom Ford's Paris apartment.
"I call them global nomads," said Tyler Brule, 29, the editor in chief of Wallpaper. "Whether they're a West Coast snowboarder, a copy writer for a hot advertising firm in Stockholm or a grunge kid working in an indie record shop that suddenly got a film deal, there's a degree of affluence all of a sudden. They're a young international group that grew up moving around without any possessions, and now they need advice on how to live a sophisticated life style."
Like Details magazine in the late 80's and Wired in the early 90's, Wallpaper, which is based in London, has momentarily captured the mind-set of Generation X. It has a small circulation -- 85,000, including 30,000 in the United States -- but its influence far outweighs the numbers. In many a downtown apartment, it is the only magazine on the (boomerang shaped) coffee table. It's a name to drop at rooftop parties and in other magazines' editorial meetings.
Almost from its first issue in September 1996, it attracted the covetous attentions of publishing giants like Conde Nast and Time Warner, and Time ultimately bought it, increasing its sporadic publication to eight times a year. The latest issue, at 334 pages the fattest ever, drips with ads for Prada clothes, Bulgari watches and Smirnoff Black vodka.
"When Wallpaper first came out, it was like, 'Why didn't I think of that before?' " said Sean MacPherson, who owns stylish Los Angeles night spots like Bar Marmont and El Carmen's and is also an avid collector of modernist furniture. "It's such an obvious idea. If you take the idea of a tribe, where I can fly to New York City and have more in common with someone I meet at a restaurant than my next door neighbor, there's definitely a Wallpaper tribe."
The magazine goes beyond traditional shelter publications by photographing fictitious living rooms inhabited by terminally hip models, wearing the latest fashions and dining on stylish but birdlike meals. For the magazine's newly arrived readers, every item, down to the wine in the glasses and the ambient-style music on the DVD player, is listed, with prices and store information.
But Mr. Brule maintains that the Wallpaper Generation is not just the latest wave of yuppies. "Our readers are not corporate -- they're entrepreneurs," he said. "They would never spend all day hung over behind a computer like in 'Bright Lights, Big City,' because most of them are self-employed or working at small companies." The prototypical Wallpaper interior seems to be the first-class lounge of an international airport.
The magazine did not create the revival of mid-century modernist design, which includes Scandinavian modern masters like Arne Jacobsen and Alvar Aalto and Americans like Eero Saarinen, Florence Knoll and Charles and Ray Eames. These visionaries used wartime technology -- materials like fiberglass and foam rubber, and techniques for bending plywood and molding plastics -- to make furniture that was streamlined and easy to mass produce.
There was a naive optimism about the future in the aluminum lamps and stacking plastic chairs, and the look was echoed in the Jetsonesque imagery of pop culture.
Its rediscovery by furniture dealers and collectors -- embraced with a hipster's wink -- has been gaining momentum for several years, and lately it has shown up everywhere from music videos to downtown clubs. Seeking evidence? In Hollywood, Tom Ford of Gucci, the actor Vincent Gallo, the actress Kelly Lynch and Eli Bonerz, who owns X-Large Clothing with Mike D of the Beastie Boys, have all bought glass-walled houses by mid-century modern architects like John Lautner and Richard Neutra. In the film "Men in Black," the headquarters building was based in part on Saarinen's gull-winged T.W.A. jetport at Kennedy airport, and the set was decorated with Jacobsen's sensuously futuristic Egg chairs from 1957.
In the Queen Latifah current video, "Bananas," there is a Peter Ghyczy 60's Egg Garden chair, and in Missy Elliot's video for "Beep Me 911," there is a fiberglass Gyro chair by Eero Aarnio. The pieces are an "easy read for a futuristic moment," said Paul Hunter, the director of Queen Latifah's video.
Wallpaper, if it didn't create the trend, had peerless timing. "It's sort of a chicken-before-the-egg question," said Matt Hanna, 31, an editor at VH1, sitting on an egg-shaped cushion at Cafeteria, a new modernist-inspired restaurant and lounge in Chelsea. "I've always been a Wallpaper kind of guy. I just didn't know it till the magazine came out."
Scarcely a year ago, cool SoHo lounges like Spy and Wax were furnished with Victorian velvet couches and dripping candles. Today, clubs of the moment, including Veruka, Lot 61, Bond Street and Moomba, have all embraced mid-century modernism. Lot 61's blocklike rubber seating was made in the 50's for a mental hospital. The new restaurant Bottino in the west Chelsea art district has 100 vintage Eames chairs. And Cafeteria, co-owned by the clothing designer Victor Alfaro, has 50's-inspired patio chairs. Even Stone Gossard, a guitarist for Pearl Jam, one of the last surviving grunge acts, is a co-owner of a new modernist-inspired club, ARO.space, in Seattle.
"We definitely wanted to move away from that found-in-a-thrift-shop look," said David Schefer, who designed Moomba and Veruka.
Allen Look, 32, an architect who was sipping an oversize cosmopolitan at Standard in the East Village, another hot spot that has adopted the style, explained it this way: "Try to imagine that downtown was a big college town. Now, it's grown up and wants to be more responsible and clean."
At Bond Street, which looks like a Zen version of a Gucci ad, with spare dark tables and muted olive banquettes, a stylist in a black Daryl K T-shirt who goes by the single name Sabrina rested her chopsticks next to the tiny sushi roll she was sharing with a friend. "It's very Wallpaper, isn't it?" she said.
Downtown, furniture and interior design have acquired a hipness once reserved for fashion designers and alternative music. At Form and Function, a new store at 95 Vandam Street that sells rare Eames pieces and vintage electronics like the first-ever Walkman-style headset from 1970, Fred Schneider of the B-52's rock band is an owner; shoppers include musicians like Moby and Mike D. In a recent Rolling Stone interview, Mike D said Wallpaper is one of the only magazines he subscribes to, and he mused about starting a line of home accessories.
The most unlikely crowd is gravitating to the Wallpaper look. On television monitors facing Lafayette Street from Supreme, a skateboard shop, educational films by the Eameses are shown. "The cool furniture just sticks out," said James Jebbia, the owner of Supreme, as well as of Stussy, a major skateboard and hip-hop clothing line.
"Many skate graphics and logos are influenced by the simplicity and humor of Eames or Nelson," Mr. Jebbia, a collector of modernist furniture, maintained. "When my friends come in from Japan or London, the first thing they want to do is check out the fresh modern furniture stores downtown."
Certainly many admiring the Eameses through the window of Supreme have no clue to the historical place of their work. And that seems true of many members of the Wallpaper Generation. Jim Walrod, 33, a co-owner of Form and Function, said the appeal of mid-century modernism to Generation X, even those without knowledge of its origins, is natural because of "an invisible reference point" young people acquired after years of exposure to the art direction of old movies and television shows, not to mention the teak and stainless-steel contents of their parents' living rooms.
"Kids with no design training will walk over to a Swan chair or an old radio and just start smiling," Mr. Walrod, a skateboarder, said. "They don't know why they're interested, but it's probably because they saw it on 'Logan's Run' or at their aunt's house."
Ronnie Morales, 28, who recently quit his job at Stussy to become a full-time modernist furniture dealer, echoed the point. "It's like the furniture belongs to our generation even though it was made 40 or 50 years ago," he said.
And Frankie Inglese, a downtown deejay who has stocked his space age bachelor pad with vintage electronics, traces his love of space age design to mid-60's album covers. "It's nearly the year 2000," he said. "We have great technology, like cell phones, the Internet and digital cameras. But we're still sitting on eyesores by Ikea. This is not what the future was supposed to look like."
In the last year and a half, older downtown stores specializing in industrial modernist design like Moss and Troy have been joined by a slew of newcomers, including Ace (295 Elizabeth Street), Re-Generation (38 Renwick Street), Antik (104 Franklin Street), Twenty (20 Prince Street), and R 20th Century Design, which is at 326 Wythe Avenue in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
Evan Snyderman, 28, and Zesty Meyers, 29, opened R 20th Century Design in a lonely industrial neighborhood eight months ago and were featured in Wallpaper almost immediately. On a recent Saturday afternoon, the store was packed with tattooed artists and other young people marveling at an aqua George Nelson daybed priced at $3,750. Mr. Snyderman said he couldn't get over how well the store is doing, considering the typical resident of the area is supposed to be a starving artist.
"At first there was some neighborhood resentment because our store was sort of slick looking and expensive," Mr. Snyderman, who set up a layaway plan, said. "But now people just want to know what the stuff is."
As modernist design becomes trendier, some of its longtime champions are skeptical of the newly converted. "It's like New Balance sneakers," said Serge Becker, a co-owner of Bowery Bar, who plans to open a new nightclub at the Joseph Papp Public Theater this fall, which he has designed in 1930's Italian-modern style. (Think cork walls and Perelli rubber floors.) "Soon, people will get sick of it and the people that liked it all along will be left," he predicted.
The London press has recently proclaimed the end of the buzz about Wallpaper. The magazine is an easy target for critics of its achingly hip fashion models either posing amid lavishly priced interiors or racing to catch the Concorde. "It's as if you can't be cool unless you can afford to fly first class on your own private jet with the perfect modernist interior," said Mike Mills, a graphic designer for hipster bands like the Beastie Boys, Cibo Mato and Air, who has lectured on the Eameses to college students. "A better magazine would have furniture that cost under $20 and where jet-set meant Tower Air. It's very un-Eames-like."
Bill Doige, a set designer who works for Calvin Klein, said he wouldn't dream of using modernist furniture again because "everyone and their grandmother is using it."
"When you see a Citibank commercial that has all modernist furniture, then you know it's time to try something else," he said. "Next season, I'm going to try the Dada look: lots of shapes but no recognizable props."
Still, at Form and Function, Mr. Walrod predicted that the look and the life style have plenty of mileage left in them.
Recalling a television commercial for L'Oreal Preference with Heather Locklear tossing her blond mane while seated in a luscious purple 50's Egg chair, he said, "If I was a kid and saw that, I'd be so happy I'd start investigating modernism immediately."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 1998, Wednesday
PUB-DATE: September 28, 1998

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Sunday about a magazine called Wallpaper and the people who buy the modernist furniture it promotes misstated the address of Ace Furniture in Manhattan. It is 269 Elizabeth Street, not 295.
An article in Sunday Styles on Sept. 6 about the design magazine Wallpaper and the consumers influenced by its emphasis on midcentury modernism misstated the age of Re-Generation, a furniture store in downtown Manhattan that specializes in industrial design. It opened in 1993, not in the last year and a half.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ed Briggs and Kelly Galligan, above in their Chelsea apartment, are among the former bohemians cleaning up their acts and turning to mid-century modern furnishings like those featured in Wallpaper magazine. Their collection includes a shag rug, an amoeba-shaped table and space age lamps. Frankie Inglese, left, a downtown deejay, at home with his collection of vintage electronics. He traces his love of space age design to mid-60's album covers. Simplicity and humor: a 1956 George Nelson chaise, above, at Form and Function in SoHo. At Form and Function, below: Sony's first transistor television (1959). Bottom, a recent take on the amoeba table. Chicken or egg? Wallpaper magazine, left, took up modernism at the right time. (Photographs, above and below right, by Boyd Hagen for The New York Times; chaise and television set, right, by David Corio for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Jim Walrod, an owner of Form and Function, surrounded by some of the store's wares, including a table by Charles Eames for Herman Miller, top left. (David Corio for The New York Times); Fiberglass nation: Among the futuristic furniture in Missy Elliot's "Beep Me 911" video is an Eero Aarnio Gyro chair. The biomorphic Egg chair by Arne Jacobsen, circa 1960, had a cameo in "Men in Black." (William Doyle Galleries)(pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WALLPAPER GENERATION (MAGAZINE) MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: WALLPAPER GENERATION (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN; LIFE STYLES; NINETEEN HUNDRED FIFTIES TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); MILLENNIUM (74%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); CLOTHING LABELS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); WRITERS (66%); MUSIC STORES (62%); SNOWBOARDING (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); 

PERSON: CHAPLIN, JULIA MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1998



203 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 4; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: The Wasteland

BYLINE: By Thurston Clarke; Thurston Clarke is the author of "Equator" and "California Fault." He is currently writing "Searching for Crusoe," a book about islands.

 BODY:

AN EMPIRE WILDERNESS
 Travels Into America's Future.
 By Robert D. Kaplan.
 393 pp. New York:
 Random House. $27.50. 
 Robert D. Kaplan has traveled to Omaha and seen the future. Here it is: "Standardized corporate fortresses, privately guarded housing developments, Disneyfied tourist bubbles"; "isolated suburban pods and enclaves of races and classes unrelated to each other"; an automobile-oriented city where "you will be even less comfortable outside of your car in the future than you are now"; a business elite with its own foreign policy "dominated by the concerns of trade and Realpolitik rather than by human rights and spreading democracy"; a politically apathetic populace more interested in health clubs and the Internet than in community life; a society where the poor fend for themselves; and a "civilization influenced by the impersonal, bottom-line values of the corporations."
And Omaha, believe it or not, is where Kaplan discerns the outlines of a future he describes as "not so bleak," one that "might, in its own way, be as wondrous as our past." He also glimpses this wondrous future in California's Orange County, a "more refined and sophisticated" Omaha-style suburban pod city.
Thinking I had somehow missed the "wondrous future," I reread these chapters of "An Empire Wilderness." I found only the cold comfort that Omaha's and Orange County's high-security suburban laagers will boast a pleasing multicultural population because corporations find it more cost efficient to recruit the talented of the third world than to train low-skilled Americans, and the still colder comfort that because evolving city-states like Omaha are plugged into the world, their elites are increasingly skilled at the efficient exploitation of low-wage third world laborers. This has facilitated a relationship Kaplan describes as "oligarchal, like that between the citizens of ancient Athens or Rome and their slaves."
After following Kaplan through the rest of his travels in the West, where, like generations of writers before, he believes our future is most easily perceived, I finally got the point about Omaha and Orange County. After learning how global materialism and the communications revolution promise the slow and subtle withering away of the traditional nation-state, the death of the traditional middle class, a "wilderness" of region-states and suburban oases linked to a global marketplace and a new class of "rooted cosmopolitans" loyal only to their own region but intellectually and professionally inhabiting a larger world, I finally understood that Orange County and Omaha were simply the best of these fortified posturban oases.
Both are less bleak than, for example, St. Louis, which Kaplan describes as a corporate fortress circled by high-security suburbs of lonely and overworked people, and desperate slums of blacks who are irrelevant to the American economy. And better than Tucson, Ariz., with its miles of strip malls, subdivisions of cheaply framed Sheetrock houses and mobile home parks crammed with drifters and broken families who are forever drunk, dirty and in debt, with no connection to neighbors or relatives. Wages in Tucson are stagnant, urban planning nonexistent, political and community involvement negligible; local business leaders, who might feel some responsibility for the mess, are being swept away by national chain stores. The city boils with class resentment and violence, offers low-paying service jobs and is presided over by a millionaire elite that acquired its wealth by sitting on real estate. Just when you think the news could not get worse, Kaplan announces that by the middle of the next century 98 percent of Arizona's population will live in greater Phoenix or Tucson.
Kaplan believes the West's rural remnants will become irrelevant to its culture and economy. In Guymon, Okla., he finds a devastated landscape of cheap aluminum siding, increasing gang activity and desperate Mexican migrants slaughtering hogs in factory farms. Garden City, Kan., is the "sharp-contoured loneliness of one-story buildings without an architectural past, set against the moaning wind." Bozeman, Mont., has suburban sprawl, Disneyesque ranches and new class divisions threatening its natural beauty and social cohesion. He travels into this shattered countryside on a Greyhound bus he likens to a prison van transporting the underclass from one impoverished urban wreck to another, reporting that even in Eastern Europe and Africa he "had never traveled among a more rootless or unstable crowd whose members took such poor care of themselves."
Kaplan's journeys through Yugoslavia were the basis for his acclaimed "Balkan Ghosts," and his experiences in Africa resulted in "The Ends of the Earth," which forecast a grim future for impoverished nations. In both cases, his predictions have proved remarkably accurate, and I fear "An Empire Wilderness" may be similarly prescient, as long as you ignore the spurious optimism I suspect is a defense against the kind of unjustified criticism he received for his bleak vision of Africa.
As in his earlier books, Kaplan braids together his own observations with his meetings with leading businessmen, academics, journalists, politicians, social workers and government functionaries, and proves himself a journalist of impressive skill -- tireless, curious and smart. His theories are brave and provocative, and I cannot imagine anyone will concoct a more convincing scenario for the American future. But he can be a frustrating companion. His narrative lacks the humor and serendipity found in the best travel literature; it sometimes gives the impression of being an undigested, even unmasticated diary. When he concludes a major section with "So now I will pick up my journey from Omaha," you wonder: Would Kaplan's editors at The Atlantic Monthly, where he is a contributing editor, allow him to end an article this way?
After finishing "An Empire Wilderness," I felt like Scrooge asking the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come, "Why show me this, if I am past all hope?" Unlike Scrooge, we are not going to discover that this apparition was a nightmare, and unlike Dickens, Kaplan offers no remedies. At the end, he visits Vancouver, British Columbia, and Portland, Ore., lavishing praise on their environmental consciousness, dynamic urbanity, human scale and determination to control the automobile and suburban sprawl. He says Vancouver is a "rebuke" to the places he visited in the United States, including Orange County of the wondrous future, proof that high-density cities are desirable because they mean convenient, interesting places in which to live. But before we can grab this little life preserver he yanks it back by insisting that the Portland and Orange County models will compete for ascendancy and that the Orange County model will win, although he never explains why.
Kaplan's concluding chapter brings another small dose of curious optimism with the suggestion that places like Tucson, surely the most depressing city in a narrative with many contenders for that title, are somehow an "image of our dynamism." But if Tucson is all our dynamism can produce, I say let's spend more time in the hammock.
Like Churchill proclaiming that Britain's overseas colonies, dominions and allies would continue to fight if England fell to the Nazis, Kaplan imagines it will comfort us to know that as the culture of the European Enlightenment dissolves in the United States, and as wealthy Americans choose protected and isolated communities, the American ideal of a middle-class society will spread throughout Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. I take more comfort in recalling that famous photograph of the high-rise housing project in St. Louis being dynamited into rubble because its design encouraged isolation, crime and sociopathic behavior. It is easy to imagine the sprawling suburbs, big box stores and gated communities as permanent features, particularly because they are so enormous, pervasive and new. But if enough people become repelled at how they have disfigured our landscape and society, and insist on communities resembling Portland rather than Tucson, perhaps they too will some day be blown to smithereens.
"An Empire Wilderness" is not written as a call to arms, but its vision is so frightening and powerful it could have that effect. Maybe Kaplan's alarming predictions have brought closer the day when we finally tear down the gates, put the automobile in its place and walk out our front doors to rediscover our families and neighbors, revive our communities and save ourselves from his bleak future.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: EMPIRE WILDERNESS, AN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SUBURBS (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); CLASSICS (66%); LITERATURE (65%); WRITERS (65%); 

PERSON: CLARKE, THURSTON; KAPLAN, ROBERT D ROBERT D KAPLAN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1998



204 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
KEFALIDIS, NIKOS

 BODY:
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. Of Manhattan. On September 2, 1998, aboard Swissair 111. Best friend and beloved husband for 18 years of Laurie. Dearest and devoted father of Melanie (17), Elias (14) and Marisa (8). Loving son of Kerasia and Symeon Kefalidis of Alexandroupolis, Greece. Cherished brother of Chrysanthos Kefalidis of Athens and Efthimia Melidis of Alexandroupolis. Caring uncle of four nephews. Nikos spent the first nine years of his life with his family in Alexandroupolis, Greece, his birthplace. He then attended Anavryta College, a boarding school near Athens, as a scholarship student. He later studied at the University of Athens, graduating with a degree in economics. In 1970, he immigrated to the United States and became a U.S. citizen several years later. As founder and President of KLM Construction, Inc., he developed residential and commercial real estate projects throughout New York City. In 1989, he was instrumental in founding Beta Steel Corp., a privately held steel mill in Portage, Indiana, of which he was Chairman of the Board of Directors. In addition to his business ventures, Nikos was active in numerous community, political and religious organizations. He was appointed a member of the Democratic National Committee in 1994. He served on the Archdiocesan Council of the Greek Orthodox Church in the Americas and as Vice President of the Board of Trustees of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocesan Cathedral of the Holy Trinity in New York City. A Memorial Service will be held at The Cathedral, 319 East 74th Street (between 1st and 2nd Avenues) on Tuesday, September 8, 1998 at 6 PM, with His Eminence, Archbishop Iakovos presiding. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in his memory either to The Greek Children's Fund at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, NY, NY 10021, or to The Dalton School Scholarship Fund, 108 East 89th Street, NY, NY 10128.
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The directors and employees of Beta Steel Corp. of Portage, Indiana express their own deep sorrow while extending profound sympathy to the entire Kefalidis family on the untimely death of our founder, Chairman of the Board of Directors and indomitable helmsman. Through times both good and bad, his vision, wisdom and compassion provided us with the courage to do the right thing, as well as the strength to endure and overcome misfortune. He stood by all of us, supporting and encouraging us, more than just as an employer, but as a genuine friend. His door would always open, in response to our knock for every single need, whether personal or professional. We mourn the loss of an exceptional leader, a dedicated executive, a loyal friend and-in every sense of the definition-a "good man."
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. Our partners, associates and staff deeply grieve the horrible and tragic loss of our universally respected client and loyal and warm-hearted friend. We have shared a unique privilege in having had the opportunity to know and work with Nikos. His strength of character, remarkable creativity and insights, and understanding, generosity and compassion for all were inspirational and irreplaceable. We offer for Laurie, Melanie, Elias and Marisa our deepest, heartfelt sympathy. Carl Hollander Murray & Hollander, L.L.P.
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. We lost our dearest friend whom we trusted and loved as a brother. His loyalty, love and generosity were without measure. Our lives have forever been enriched by his kindness and humanity. His spirit will remain in our hearts. Laurie, Melanie, Elias and Marisa, we love you. Joanna and Bob
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The employees of KLM Construction, Inc., mourn the untimely death aboard Swissair 111 of our founder, President, example and true friend. To the Kefalidis family, our wish for peace and love.
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. You invited us into your life to share your love, joy, good counsel and extraordinary family. Good-bye, dear friend; you will be in our hearts, thoughts and prayers forever. Grant and Mimi Ruthizer
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The example of your magnanimous heart and generous spirit will forever stay as a source of strength and inspiration in our lives. Apostolos and Areti Fliakos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: AKH (NYSE) (56%); AF (PAR) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ATHENS, GREECE (91%); 

COMPANY: SWISSAIR AG (58%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (91%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ATHENS, GREECE (91%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); RELIGION (87%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (75%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CITIZENSHIP (56%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (54%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (53%); CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: KEFALIDIS, NIKOS

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



205 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Blue-Collar Greenwich

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Although your Aug. 31 news article on Greenwich, Conn., provides an accurate description of part of the city, it leaves readers believing that everyone here owns a Porsche, or at least a 1998 Ford. The reality is different. 
 Among the 58,000 residents of Greenwich are hundreds of people whose hourly wages provide little more than a subsistence living. Tradesman, small-business owners, teachers and health care workers may live in expensive homes, but their children hold jobs to buy the clothes they want, and expensive private college tuitions are not possible for them without scholarships.
There is greater diversity in Greenwich than in many American towns. Within the city's 50 square miles are families whose wealth comes from prudent management of their grandparents' success, as well as families from around the world who are the first in their generation to pursue the American dream. This variety of socioeconomic levels makes Greenwich a healthy town.
 
WILSON S. ALLING
Greeenwich, Conn., Sept. 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENWICH (CONN); UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (87%); TUITION FEES (87%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SMALL BUSINESS (55%); 

PERSON: ALLING, WILSON S

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



206 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Looking to Doonesbury as an Economic Indicator

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
Has Doonesbury, the political comic strip by Garry Trudeau, become the latest sell signal?
The most recent story line, which began on Aug. 24, features Mike Doonesbury and his fledgling Internet company, Mikim Inc. Like most of its peers, it is losing money -- lots of it. But, as Mike explains to his daughter, Internet companies are supposed to lose money. That's why they go public. 
 As easy as Internet companies are to lampoon, the sight of them in the comics may be the clearest indication yet that their stocks have reached a top. Since peaking in July, when valuations were the most elevated, these stocks have dropped sharply. Yahoo is down 27 percent, for example, and Amazon.com has fallen 41 percent.
"When the mainstream press and humorists start to pick up on something, it does send something of a message," said Edward J. Mathias, managing director at the Carlyle Group in Washington, who has spent more than 15 years collecting various clippings, including editorial cartoons, on business and the stock market in the popular press.
Cartoonists and others "are very topical about what they do," Mr. Mathias said. While they may not be a leading indicator, they affirm that a particular topic has penetrated the public consciousness. And whenever something becomes that well known, an investor should assume that its popularity is reflected in the price of any assets, he said.
What makes many Internet companies easy targets, for Mr. Trudeau's satire or for worried investors wondering what to unload from their portfolios, is their lack of profits. While investors typically value public companies by some multiple of what they earn, many of Internet companies are measured by anything but.
"I'm interested in future profits," said Paul T. Cook, who manages the Munder Netnet Fund. He argues that Internet companies need to spend today to build market share tomorrow.
"A lot of these companies could be profitable today if they were satisfied with their current station," he said.
But some investors' willingness to ignore profits creates an atmosphere ripe for ridicule. As a result, Mike Doonesbury is proud of his company's burn rate, the amount of money he spends over whatever he takes in as revenues. His daughter scolds him for being "braggy" when she overhears him tell someone the company could lose $2 million this year -- easy. The same atmosphere was the subject of Michael Wolff's "Burn Rate," a tongue-in-cheek look at Mr. Wolff's own Internet company.
Many investors seem to have dispensed with even the pretense of profitability. How else do you explain the ability of Broadcast.com Inc., which went public in July, to report increasing quarterly losses and still see its stock jump by nearly 7 percent the same day?
This overreliance on growth in revenue and market share at the expense of profitability, a cornerstone of any successful business, makes other investors scornful.
"I think it's the silliest thing I've ever heard," Susan M. Byrne, the president of Westwood Management, said. While she is enthusiastic about the vast potential of the Internet, calling it "the rails of the new millennium," she remains convinced that a company must have a business plan if it is to profit from the Internet's popularity. Market share does no good if the business model does not make clear how a company can make money.
The problem, said Michael Murphy, a money manager and technology stock analyst who recommends selling short some of the Internet stocks, is "a good chunk of the Internet companies will never be profitable."
Alas, Mike Doonesbury may now be too late. With the overall market, and especially small stocks, down, the opportunity to win a favorable reception from investors is shrinking. "In markets like this, people get religion," said John E. Fitzgibbon Jr., the editor of The IPO Reporter, a weekly newsletter in New York.
By the end of last week, newspaper readers knew that Doonesbury's Mikim was faced with the abrupt withdrawal of its principal financial backer. But Mike himself still wanted to press ahead with a stock sale, in the hope that gullible investors would believe the appearance of success is the real thing.
"A luxury car might help," Mike ventured.

GRAPHIC: Cartoon (Doonesbury© 1998. G. D. Trudeau. Reprinted with permission of Universal Press Syndicate. All rights reserved.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); CG (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BROADCAST.COM INC (60%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMIC BOOKS AND STRIPS INTERNET & WWW (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (85%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); 

PERSON: TRUDEAU, GARRY; ABELSON, REED GARRY TRUDEAU (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



207 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: In-House Competition From Web News Team

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL 

 BODY:
The next time Michael Jackson rumors start to swirl, word spreads of a Hollywood murder-suicide or Matt Damon changes his hair style, E! Entertainment will probably dispatch not one, but two teams of Hollywood news hounds.
One will come from the cable channel, the other from its sister Web site, E! Online, and company executives will not mind seeing the hounds race to get the exclusive. "They're trying to scoop each other all the time," said Lee Masters, president and chief executive of E! Entertainment. "It keeps everybody on their toes." 
 Mr. Masters said he did not intend the E! site (www.eonline.com) to compete with the network so much as to complement it, but he does intend for the on-line entity to have its own identity. Unlike some Internet sites that are linked to television programs or even entire networks, Mr. Masters wants E! Online to be something more.
Whereas E! Entertainment has sought to build its television programming on a shoestring budget, the company has spent more freely to build up the Web site, Mr. Masters said, though he declined to discuss specific figures. Companies that want to stake a claim on the Internet need to do so aggressively, and immediately, he said, and that costs money.
"You have to have mouth-watering content and you have to have an incredibly seductive environment," Mr. Masters said. "You have to stake out that territory now."
He is less effusive about E! Online's revenue, which he declined to disclose though he concedes that like most Internet companies, it is losing money.
E! went on the Web in August 1996 in a partnership with Cnet, a new-media company based in San Francisco. The partnership ended a year later, when E! paid a reported $10 million for Cnet's 50 percent of the venture. At the time, Cnet said it wanted to focus on its core businesses and E! decided it wanted to own its own brand on the Internet.
Today, 55 full-time E! employees work on the site, 40 of whom are producing the content -- a daily helping of Hollywood, including updated news, gossip, Webcasts of movie premieres, and features like "Stalkers," a three-part article on fans who stalk celebrities.
To be sure, not all the Hollywood scoops are exactly the stuff of the Lehrer Newshour. "We identified that Matt Damon was hot back in 1996," one staffer said, touting the site's accomplishments. "We broke the fact that Blues Traveler was leaving the Horde Festival."
The site appears to be getting heavy traffic, with roughly two million visitors a month, according to @plan, a Gallup Organization unit that tracks on-line traffic.
And a June 1998 survey by Relevant Knowledge Inc. ranked E! Online as the 23d most heavily trafficked news and entertainment site over all, placing it above ABC.com and MTV.com, and ahead of its direct competitors, which include Entertainment Weekly (www.pathfinder.com/ew), the News Corporation's TVgen.com site, and Entertainment Asylum (www.asylum.com).
E! Online is also one of the anchor entertainment tenants on America Online and offers entertainment programming for broadband Internet services that provide access and content over television cable lines, including At Home Network.
Mark Mooradian, a group director at the Internet research firm Jupiter Communications, said one of E! Online's strengths was its ability to complement the E! Entertainment cable channel.
E! Entertainment cites figures from @plan indicating that nearly two-thirds of the visitors to its Web site also watch its TV programs. That gives Mr. Masters confidence in his long-term plan to make E! a player in the industry's oft-predicted convergence of television and cyberspace. "We want to get our grubby little paws on every aspect of this business that we can," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: E! ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION E! ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (91%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: E! ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TELEVISION; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; E! ONLINE (WEB SITE) INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SUICIDE (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); WEBCASTS (72%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (50%); 

PERSON: MASTERS, LEE; RICHTEL, MATT MATT DAMON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



208 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Technology Start-Ups Suffer Market Jitters

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
After a month of hot and heavy flirting about a prospective merger, last Monday was going to be the day that CKS Group and USWeb finally got serious and set the price. Then the stock market started falling, dragging with it the already depressed shares of both companies.
"Things just froze," Mark Kvamme, the chief executive of CKS, an interactive advertising agency, said in describing how the $340 million deal with USWeb, an Internet programming and services company, came to a standstill. "We just stayed in our offices watching the market on our computers. We just hit return, return, return" to get up-to-the-second quotes on how far each company's stock had fallen. 
 At the end of the day, their screens showed that CKS stock was down 18 percent while USWeb had dropped 16 percent. That was close enough that the two companies were able to proceed with their deal, which was announced on Wednesday.
And that was the way things were playing out in the offices of start-ups throughout the high-flying technology industry, which had been watching a slide in market value for weeks before Monday's plunge. After that day of frozen panic, by the end of the week, much of the business was cautiously proceeding as before.
Sure the Nasdaq market, where most technology company stocks are traded, closed Friday down 22 percent from its high on July 20, but it is still essentially flat for the year.
Yet, for many technology executives, the jumpy movement of the market within a narrow range last week created the sort of nervous anticipation felt on a plateau in one of those darkness-enclosed roller coasters: you know the next move will be sudden and fast; you just do not know whether it will be up or down.
"There is no real effect on the mood here yet," said Garrett Gruener, a venture capitalist with Alta Partners in San Francisco. "But if the Nasdaq were to drop another 20 percent, that wouldn't be the case."
If the market fell further and looked as if it was not going to bounce back, the voluminous investments by venture capitalists and public stock investors in small technology companies would slow, bankers and investors say. And the existing companies would have to scramble for cash.
But for now, there is still a lot of money poised to be invested in promising new start-up companies involved in information technology and the Internet. Less certain, however, is how many of the two- and three-year-old companies now lined up to sell stock to the public will be able to do so in a suddenly skittish market.
"There is not pain or panic here in the Valley," said David Cowan, a venture capitalist with Bessemer Venture Partners in Palo Alto, Calif. "But there is concern. A stalled stock market will create billionaires at a lower frequency."
Indeed, more than a few longtime technology financiers see the fall in technology stocks from outer orbit to mid-stratosphere as a sign of some rationality in the universe.
"Personally, I lost a lot of money, but I think it's very healthy," said Richard M. Burnes Jr., a partner in Charles River Ventures, an old-line venture capital firm in Waltham, Mass. "Stock prices had taken on a life of their own, and that is very dangerous for everybody."
Mr. Burnes said he was worried about the billions of dollars that have poured into venture capital funds. Over the last few years, the soaring market for technology stocks has allowed many of these funds to post returns of 50 to 100 percent a year as they take the young companies in their portfolios public or sell them at equally high prices to bigger technology companies. Now, anyone who can tap out a business plan in Powerpoint has come to expect ready cash and lucrative terms.
"Entrepreneurs come into our office who don't have $1 million in revenue and they expect to value their companies at 30, 40, 50 million dollars," said Fred Wilson of Flatiron Partners, a New York venture capital fund. "That's absurd. You can't make money investing in companies like that."
Flatiron, he said, had stopped making investments and had encouraged the companies it owns to raise cash as a cushion in case of a downturn.
Other funds say they are still investing, only more cautiously. "I'm looking at things differently than I did two weeks ago," said Geoffrey Y. Yang, of Institutional Venture Partners in Menlo Park, Calif. "We will still invest, but the prices we pay could come down 20 to 25 percent."
And the mad rush may have slowed, he added.
"Deals that would have been done in a week are now taking six to eight week to get done," Mr. Yang said.
Yet other observers say all this talk of discipline will be quickly set aside as the venture capitalists realize they need to put to work the billions of dollars they have raised for their new funds.
"There is so much capital out there that the supply will drive up the prices of deals," Mr. Cowan said. "That means the return of the funds will ultimately go down."
Once the venture capitalists write their first checks to the budding entrepreneurs, their minds almost immediately turn to the "exit strategy." That is, how they can sell the company at a tenfold multiple, either to the public or to another company. In tougher times those multiples may not be possible.
For now, deals of all sorts have slowed until the state of the market becomes clearer.
"A record number of public offerings have been pulled in the last month or two," said Alex Lynch, the co-head of the public offerings practice at Brobeck Phleger & Harrison, a law firm that specializes in high-technology firms.
One of the best indicators of the strength of the market will be the fate of the public offerings planned for the next few months. These include E-Bay, a rapidly growing Web site that lets people run their own auctions, and the Globe, a New York-based chat service aimed at Generation-X users.
Even if these companies are not going to be able to proceed with their public offerings, they will still be able to raise money from venture capitalists and other private investors.
Many companies that had already gone public issued more stock over the summer, taking advantage of the surging market to build a cash reserve to ride out periods of tight money.
"We completed a secondary offering two months ago, adding $22 million to the $47 million we already had in the bank," said Jason Olim, the chief executive of CD Now, an on-line music store. "Our burn rate is probably $10 million a quarter," he said, referring to the deficit spending common at start-up companies. "So we have a stockpile of cash that will last us longer than a year."
Moreover, as stock prices fall, some midsized technology companies may find themselves in a position to buy other companies whose stocks have been hit even harder than their own.
Some entrepreneurs say that a perhaps less visible consequence of the careening market for technology stocks is the toll it takes on employees with the perhaps enviable problem of coping with the sudden appearance and disappearance of paper wealth.
"You get concerned about he morale of people in the company if everyone is looking at the stock price all day," said Christos M. Cotsakos, the chairman of the E-Trade Group, an on-line stock brokerage firm. "When your stock price rockets up like a meteor, it creates false expectations. Then when the price gets hammered, it drives people crazy."
Yet in recent years, every dip in the market has been followed shortly by another surge. And many longtime executives worry that too many newcomers to technology companies have never seen a truly down market.
"The thing that's scary to me is a lot of kids are coming here who think that their options are automatically going to go up by 40 percent a year," Mr. Kvamme of CKS said. "It's terrible when people start to believe they are invincible."
Yet to many young entrepreneurs, it seems perfectly clear that the Internet, is, in fact, changing everything, and that they can ride this wave to prosperity.
"I see only progress, only growth," said Mr. Olim, the 29-year-old founder of CD Now. "Value is being created at such a dramatic pace that it overwhelms any macro-economic phenomenon."
Mr. Kvamme, a 34-year-old alumnus of Apple Computer who has seen a few of Silicon Valley's earlier surges and dips, says that things are a lot more vulnerable now than they might seem.
"We're in a feel-good business," he said last week. "Any time there is uncertainty, it erodes confidence. Then decisions take longer; people stop spending. And once they stop spending, things only get worse."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (60%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (85%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FLATIRON PARTNERS BESSEMER VENTURE PARTNERS (60%); ALTA PARTNERS LLP (52%); CKS GROUP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLATIRON PARTNERS CKS GROUP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (85%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SMALL BUSINESS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; VENTURE CAPITAL STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); STARTUPS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); BONDS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL GEOFFREY Y YANG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



209 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Diary

BYLINE: By Enid Nemy with Ron Alexander 

 BODY:

DEAR DIARY:
"You're having a Senior Moment," my friend told me when I said I sometimes look for something in another room and then forget what I came for.
When my cousin came for a visit and said she had forgotten her house keys, I told her she was having a Senior Moment. She laughed and when the occasion arose, and it did, kept repeating it throughout the day. 
 The second day we went shopping -- she for gifts, I just browsing. Suddenly I heard her say "Who am I buying this gift for? I guess I'm having . . . What am I having?" We cracked up. DIDA PORECKI
Bill and Rachel Schultz are still wondering if a seafood bar in Montauk on Long Island ever succeeded in filling the job with this description: "Wanted: piano player who knows how to open clams."
Emily Gioseffi and two friends were waiting in line in front of the Public Theater for tickets to "Cymbeline." The woman ahead of them was growing increasingly frustrated, glancing toward the front of the line every few minutes. Turning to the group, she asked if the line always took so long. One of the women informed her that tickets to the event were not distributed until 1 o'clock.
"Is everything in New York so inefficient?" the woman retorted, with an accent that indicated she was a foreigner. She then whipped out her Metrocard and added: "Besides, I shouldn't have to wait, I've already got my ticket."
The three realized that the woman had been waiting for an uptown bus to Madison Avenue and had mistakenly thought the theatergoers' line had something to do with the bus.
Attempting to help, Ms. Gioseffi went to check the bus schedule posted nearby, but the tourist frantically instructed her to get away from the bus stop, explaining "You're not allowed to stand there."
The conscientious visitor then read the sign aloud, slowly and deliberately, "No standing any time."
P.S. The three directed the woman to the subway.
Josephine Dalldorf overheard this exchange at an elevator in the World Trade Center:
First Woman: "What are you doing this weekend?"
Second Woman: "We're taking David out to North Shore Animal League to get a puppy."
First Woman: "Why are you going all the way out there? You have a wonderful shelter near you in Mount Vernon."
Second Woman: "I know, but they have a better class of animals at North Shore."
Another overheard exchange, this one by Florence K. Peate of two elegant elderly women chatting as they waited for an elevator at Bergdorf Goodman:
First Woman: "When I die, I've told everyone I want to be buried in a shroud with a closed coffin."
Second Woman, sounding puzzled: "Why?"
First Woman: "Because if I were laid out, you would look at me and say 'My God -- she's wearing last year's dress!' "
Scene: Columbus Avenue at 85th Street.
Time: Late Sunday afternoon brunch.
Players: A young man and woman, obviously a couple, sitting at separate small outdoor tables and deeply engaged in conversation.
Observer: Leslie J. Gersing who, on closer inspection, realizes that the couple are eating at different cafes. He's sipping coffee and smoking at the French-inspired Avenue. She's eating pizza at the adjacent Firehouse sports bar.
Who says love requires compromise?
Emanuel Kahn can't forget this conversation, and small wonder. He wanted a compact disk by Johann Sebastian Bach, so he telephoned a classical record music club and asked for the recording. After a short interval, the operator said that she couldn't find this artist. Mr. Kahn spelled the name and she replied that perhaps the artist was too new and wasn't listed yet.
J.S. Bach died a few hundred years ago, Mr. Kahn said, and he had previously bought recordings by "this artist." Please check again.
She came back on the line. "We don't have anything by this artist," she said. "He never signed a contract with us."
Honesty Is Not Always the Best Policy Department:
The sales clerk at the bakery counter of her local supermarket looked at Elaine Green and said "Yes, young lady, what can I do for you?" Ms. Green said, "First of all, thank you for calling me 'young lady,' and second, I'll have a plain rye bread."
The clerk replied: "Oh, I call all my elderly customers 'young lady' or 'young man.' "
Somehow the bread felt a little heavier to Ms. Green as she walked away.
The Scene: Vera Institute of Justice Ombudservice booth at New York State Supreme Court in Brooklyn. The Ombudservice listens to juror concerns and handles individual juror problems.
First Juror: "You gotta get me out of jury service. It's against my principles to judge my fellow man. It's against my religion."
Second Juror (interrupting): "Hey, buddy! How much do we get paid?"
Brian Maxey, the Ombudservice law intern: "$40."
First Juror: "A day?" Muses a moment. "Well, for $40, maybe I could judge my fellow man."
Public primping isn't unusual in New York but it's usually done on a subway or bus, and it isn't often as all-encompassing as that recently witnessed by Erika Boyd and her husband.
They were standing at a bus stop on 49th Street awaiting a Waterway Ferry bus when a young woman standing next to them began her elaborate toilette. She opened her oversize black bag and pulled out a mirrored compact, lipstick, eye liner, eye shadow and mascara, and carefully made up her face. She then dabbed complexion makeup to cover blemishes on her bare legs. The next stage was brushing out her complicated hairdo, twisting it into a knot and securing the new coiffure with two long black plastic hair sticks, placed to form an X. This was followed by the placement of long dangly earrings and a ring.
Finally she stepped in front of her full-length mirror -- in this case, a storefront window -- and inspected the length of her skirt and her overall appearance.
She appeared satisfied. The Boyds were, too. It was a Manhattan experience. She went on her way -- to a job interview? a date? a photo shoot? -- and they boarded the bus en route to the ferry and their home in New Jersey.
 
U.S. OPEN (AND SHUT) CASE
Heavens to Betsy, holy moley
When frankfurters are no longer lowly,
When they're served up on a sesame bun
And covered over with Grey Poupon,
When we find to our profound dismay
That all the foods are now Gourmet
When we care less who goes down in defeat
Than how we pay for what we eat,
Then it's time to admit the game of tennis
Has become an economical menace! MURIEL LILKER
Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary, Style Department, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York 10036. Please include your name, address and daytime telephone number; upon request, names may be withheld in print. Letters become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished in all media.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Phil Marden)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: METROPOLITAN DIARY (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON NEON (51%); NEW YORK STATE SUPREME COURT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE SUPREME COURT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WOMEN (87%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); PETS (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (58%); 

PERSON: NEMY, ENID; ALEXANDER, RON MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



210 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: As Demand for Teachers Exceeds Supply, Schools Sweeten Their Offers

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
In Baltimore this summer, prospective special-education teachers were in such demand that they were offered more money than the union contract requires: those with just a year's experience got the starting salaries of four-year veterans -- the equivalent of a $2,000 raise before ever putting chalk to blackboard. And like applicants in all other subject areas, they were also entitled to reduced-rate mortgages and low-interest $1,500 loans for relocation.
In Massachusetts, teaching candidates will soon be able to compete for an even bigger windfall: Acting Gov. Argeo Paul Cellucci signed a law last month establishing $20,000 signing bonuses for nearly 200 of the most promising rookie teachers who apply to work in the commonwealth's schools next year. 
 And despite a new law curtailing bilingual education, California districts remain so desperate for teachers who speak languages like Spanish and Vietnamese that some are offering bonuses of up to $5,000.
Long accustomed to being supplicants in the labor force, candidates for public-school teaching jobs -- especially in special education, math and science -- are being put in the decidedly unfamiliar position of being wooed with financial sweeteners.
In making those overtures, recruiters from even the smallest districts have logged thousands of miles in the spring and summer, with those from teacher-needy states like Nevada and Alaska canvassing universities in upstate New York, Montana and Iowa, where there are far more rookie teachers than available jobs.
New York City recruiters, frustrated in their search for qualified math and science teachers, looked as far as Austria, where they hired 23 instructors eager to escape widespread teacher unemployment.
Even substitute teachers, the second-class citizens on so many faculties, have found themselves in demand: so depleted are the ranks of substitutes in Kentucky that the state has allowed some districts to hire those with only high school diplomas.
"In the past," said Marcia Brown, the director of personnel administration for the El Paso Independent School District in Texas, "what this school district has had to offer has been enough to attract teachers: the climate, good sound programs and a safe working environment."
"But now," she said, "because every district across this country is running short, especially in the high-need areas, the competition is tremendous."
Outbid countless times this past year by districts in Dallas and Fort Worth, which offered signing bonuses of $500 to $2,000 to hundreds of teaching candidates who committed virtually on the spot, El Paso has decided to join the fray. Beginning later this fall, new math teachers hired in El Paso will have their $25,012 starting salaries increased by $2,000 bonuses.
Buffeting the current market are rising enrollments -- the schools in Las Vegas, Nev., have had to hire 2,000 new teachers over each of the last two summers, largely to accommodate an influx of 20,000 new students -- as well as a drought of college graduates choosing teaching careers, especially in math and science.
The pressure on districts is building as total public and private school enrollment is expected to reach a record 52.7 million this fall, which the Department of Education says would exceed the record high last fall by 500,000.
And the competition promises only to get fiercer. The department expects new enrollment records to be set for at least the next eight years.
Public school rolls are expected to grow by 4 percent over the next decade, to 48.3 million from 46.4 million, as hundreds of thousands of teachers hired in the late 1960's and early 1970's to teach the Baby Boom generation retire.
While education experts say that signing bonuses and other perks signal a new respect for teachers in some quarters, they say they worry that such measures will amount to little more than a Band-Aid on a profession that is in danger of hemorrhaging.
But for now, as districts around the country seek to fill vacancies even after schools have opened for the year, they say the best they can offer are virtual carrots. Yet they say they have learned that even the most modest of gestures can cinch a candidate's decision.
Lasheaka Timmons, 23, who graduated last spring with a degree in secondary education and social studies from the University of Arizona, was offered a job teaching a continent away at West Baltimore Middle School, through Teach for America, which places rookie teachers in urban districts. But Ms. Timmons said she would have had to turn down the job, and work instead in Phoenix, without the $1,200 loan to cover moving expenses that school officials offered her through the municipal workers' credit union.
Ms. Timmons is to pay back the loan at a rate of 13 percent -- better than that offered by most credit card companies -- through weekly deductions from her paycheck over the next year.
"Just out of college, unless you come from a background where your parents can afford to help you, especially coming from Arizona, you wouldn't be able to relocate," she said. "It definitely makes you feel they want you."
Baltimore officials say that such perks, as well as mortgage loans that are discounted by an eighth to a quarter of a point, provided the teachers settle within the city limits, have been mentioned as critical enticements by several dozen of the more than 700 teachers hired over the summer.
But even as Baltimore schools opened last week, the district had been unable to fill nearly 100 vacancies, especially for special-education and elementary-school teachers, needed to reduce class size, and officials said they were still hiring. "If you could slant your story that way," Albrie Love Jr., personnel director for the Baltimore schools, told a reporter, "I would appreciate it."
In Massachusetts, where 59 percent of teaching applicants failed an entrance examination last spring, officials said they hoped to use the $20,000 bonuses, spread over the first four years of a teacher's career, to entice 175 of "the best and the brightest" into the profession each year. Under the program, up to 300 high-performing veteran teachers would receive bonuses of $50,000 divided over 10 years.
But Kathleen Kelley, the president of the Massachusetts Federation of Teachers, said it would take far more than bonuses to elevate the working conditions for teachers in the state.
"It affects so few people," Ms. Kelley said. "It's a drop in the bucket, and it doesn't take a systemic look at the problems."
Lupe Cruz, a bilingual education teacher in California with more than a decade's experience, said she ranked the reputation of the superintendent and his sense of teamwork as her top priorities in choosing this summer to move from a nearby district to the Alum Rock Union Elementary School district in East San Jose. Of no weight, she said, was the $1,000 signing bonus that she received for being a certified bilingual education teacher.
In fact, she says that she intends to spend the bonus money on her students.
"What's $1,000 when you look at it?" she said. "It's not going to pay for a major vacation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lasheaka Timmons, 23, of Arizona, said a $1,200 loan for moving expenses that Baltimore offered had been an important factor in her decision to accept a teaching job at West Baltimore Middle School. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (68%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (68%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; FINANCES; ENROLLMENT; MATHEMATICS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; BONUSES TEACHING & TEACHERS (95%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (78%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



211 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: El Paso, Feeling Gouged At Pump, Fights Back

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: EL PASO, Sept. 4

 BODY:
A citizens movement to protest the high price of gasoline has become the hottest political issue in El Paso, drawing in Texas officials and entangling itself in a contentious proposal to open a pipeline from the Gulf Coast -- a kind of cavalry charging to the rescue.
A Dallas oil consortium that hopes to run gasoline through the dormant pipeline, which once carried West Texas crude oil to Houston, has fastened itself to the El Paso protest movement, hoping to override the objections of officials in Austin and central Texas who say they are worried about potential leaks into crucial waterways. 
 The squabble reveals not only the image that many El Paso residents have of themselves as beleaguered victims of a "continual and unrelenting fleecing at the hands of an out-of-control industry," as Ken Haverfield, head of the consumer group that is leading the movement, put it, but what has in recent years become an endless tug-of-war of economic, political and environmental interests in the nation's second largest state.
Mr. Haverfield first heard about the consumer group he heads, Make-a-Difference, or MAD, when he was turning the radio dial. The group had just been formed and was having one of its first gatherings.
"The prices in El Paso are higher than just about anyplace," said Mr. Haverfield, a substitute teacher. "Rent, milk, you name it, but especially gas. So I went to their meeting several months ago and kind of got caught up in it." Two meetings later, he was chairman. Not long after, he was president. And last Thursday, Mr. Haverfield found himself sitting before a microphone in the El Paso Civic Center, testifying to a pair of reassuring Congressmen.
Mr. Haverfield and his supporters say that until recently gasoline prices for most of the last 20 years have been 10 to 20 cents a gallon higher in El Paso than in Houston. They believe it is the result of a conspiracy by producers to artificially inflate prices.
The Federal Government is not so sure. John Cook, director of the oil and gas division of the Federal Energy Information Administration, said that while his agency did find a history of high gasoline prices in El Paso -- 10 to 15 cents a gallon higher than in Houston -- the differential is not unusual. There are many such regional differentials in the United States, he said, caused by variations in taxes, geography, competition and the laws of supply and demand.
The crux of El Paso's gasoline problem is geographic. The city is more than 700 miles from the Gulf of Mexico, where gasoline is cheaper to produce; residents often note they are about as close to Los Angeles, three states away, as they are to Houston. And while there are many refineries on the Gulf Coast, drawing crude oil from all over the world, there is only one in El Paso, a relatively small Chevron plant that draws its crude solely from the more expensive West Texas fields. The rest of El Paso's gasoline is from fields and refineries further west, where gasoline is more expensive to produce than it is on the Gulf Coast.
"Whether it's geography or not, I don't know, but we're like a lot of people wondering why it is that gas is so expensive in El Paso," said David Morales, spokesman for the Cab Association of El Paso, another proponent of lower gas prices.
Last year, the consortium, Longhorn Partners Pipeline, took over an 18-inch-wide, 430-mile-long Exxon pipeline that had been carrying crude from the West Texas fields into Houston and the Gulf Coast refineries. The plan was to clean out the pipe, test its structural integrity, build a 250-mile extension west into El Paso and ship gasoline, diesel and jet fuel through it.
"I started to go out to El Paso three or four years ago," said Carter Montgomery, president of Longhorn, which includes Amoco and Exxon among its investors. "The attitude out there has always been, bring on the pipeline."
But a lawsuit filed earlier this year on behalf of several ranchers charges that the pipeline project violates environmental restrictions. The suit is being underwritten by the Navajo Refining Company, a leading distributor of gasoline to El Paso, Mr. Montgomery said, and a potential competitor of the pipeline.
So last month, Longhorn filed suit against Navajo, charging it with violating anti-trust laws "in an attempt to maintain artificially high gas prices" in El Paso.
The suit against Longhorn, though, attracted the attention of politicians and water officials in central Texas. Both the City of Austin and the Lower Colorado River Authority joined in the suit, demanding that Longhorn conduct an environmental impact study before using the pipeline.
Last month, a United States district court judge in Austin agreed and ordered the study, which Mr. Montgomery said would delay the project up to two years. It is also unnecessary, Mr. Montgomery said, since the pipeline consortium has already conducted sufficient tests.
Mark Rose, general manager of the Lower Colorado River Authority, said his group's concern about the pipeline was one of safety.
"Our issue is that they are reconverting a 50-year-old pipeline that once carried West Texas crude to now carry gasoline, diesel and jet fuel," Mr. Rose said. "The goal to get gasoline to El Paso is a noble one. We just hope it doesn't turn out to be tragically bad for everyone in central Texas."
Mr. Montgomery said that Longhorn was continuing to build the pipeline and appealing the judge's order.
The high prices in El Paso, which has a per-capita income well below that of other major Texas cities, remain a staple of the talk-radio shows.
But Wayne Ederer, regional marketing director for Chevron, cannot see why. "I feel there is a lot of misunderstanding out there among the citizens," he said. "They see a refinery here and refineries in Houston and wonder why prices are higher here. They don't understand the cost situation that we have, using more expensive West Texas crude."
Mr. Haverfield said that the producers have no one to blame but themselves for the widespread distrust. "We've tried to get answers from them," he said. "If you can get them on the phone, all you end up with is scrambled eggs. You can't figure it out."
A dip in the price of gasoline here since March has further muddied the situation. Chevron and other distributors say it is a result of an increase in the local supply. Mr. Haverfield and others believe it has something to do with the pressure applied by his organization and by local politicians, including Mayor Carlos Ramirez and Representative Silvestre Reyes, Democrat of El Paso.
"I did notice that the price of gasoline here this morning was competitive with what it was when I left Houston," said Representative Gene Green, a Houston Democrat who joined Mr. Reyes at the public hearing in the civic center last week. "If it'll help keep the prices down, I'll be glad to come out here every couple of weeks for a public hearing."
Mr. Montgomery says it has become a pleasure for Longhorn officials to visit El Paso.
"There was a 5K road race a while back that we agreed to help sponsor," he said. "At the end, when they read the list of sponsors and they got to our name, everybody in the audience stood up and applauded. I mean, we had 2,500 people standing up, applauding us."
This, he said, does not happen every day in the pipeline business.

GRAPHIC: Photo: El Paso cabdrivers like Joe Valadez of the Sun City Cab Company were among those protesting high gasoline prices last week at a public hearing. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Texas shows location of El Paso: A Texas oil consortium hopes to use an old oil pipeline for gasoline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GULF COAST WATER AUTHORITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO (TEX); UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (96%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PIPELINES; CONSUMER PROTECTION CONSUMER LAW (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%); 

PERSON: LYMAN, RICK KEN HAVERFIELD (69%); CARTER MONTGOMERY (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



212 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Labor Unions Show New Aggressiveness

 BODY:
Major strikes this summer indicate a new aggressiveness by the nation's labor unions, which, after several disasters, had generally shunned large-scale walkouts.
Unions have grown bolder despite declining membership rolls and the slowing economy, experts say, because of the tight labor market, more combative union leadership and the teamsters' gains in last year's U.P.S. strike. But many business leaders disagree, asserting instead that recent strikes were coincidental with the expiration of agreements in industries where labor relations are volatile. And one expert suggested it was not workers but employers who were being more aggressive in their contined demands for concessions. 
 Still, with workers' wages finally climbing faster than inflation, labor leaders worry that a slowing economy and a retreating stock market will cause corporate America to clamp down on pay raises.
Article, page A12.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LABOR UNIONS (92%); STRIKES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



213 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Unions, Growing Bolder, No Longer Shun Strikes

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The recent strikes at Northwest Airlines, General Motors, Bell Atlantic and U S West represent the biggest surge in major walkouts in years and, industrial relations experts say, point to a new aggressiveness on the part of the nation's labor unions.
For years unions were so discouraged by several disastrous strikes, most notably the Caterpillar and the air controllers' strikes, that they had generally shunned large-scale walkouts. And even though union membership rolls are slipping and the slowing economy threatens workers, unions have grown bolder, labor experts say, because of the tight labor market, more combative union leadership and the teamsters' gains in last year's U.P.S. strike. 
 In 1996, the number of strikes nationwide had fallen to its lowest level in 50 years, 374, before rising to 394 last year. Even before the prominent strikes of this summer, the number of work stoppages increased this year, rising to 226 in the first six months from 214 the first six months of last year, according to the Bureau of National Affairs, a private research organization.
Even more significant for labor, striking unions have emerged more successful than in recent years, pressuring U S West, for example, to scale back mandatory overtime and Bell Atlantic to stop making most new jobs nonunion.
"All this represents a more confident and aggressive labor movement," said Harley Shaiken, a professor of industrial relations at the University of California at Berkeley. "In the 1980's, so many highly visible, pivotal strikes ended somewhere between disaster and debacle, but what we've seen this year is a number of important successes for unions. It might not be time to crack out the champagne bottles, but it's probably time for a couple of cold beers on Labor Day to celebrate what's taken place."
But many business leaders say the recent eruption of strikes stems not from an emboldened labor movement, but from coincidence: many collective bargaining agreements in industries with volatile labor relations have expired this summer.
"I don't see a trend," said Patrick Cleary, vice president for human resources policy at the National Association of Manufacturers. "I don't get a sense of any change in the national Zeitgeist."
But one cause for the surge in strikes is that many corporations continue to demand concessions. The 34,000 workers at U S West went on strike after the company insisted on replacing the across-the-board pay increases that unions favor with a pay-for-performance system, which would give management total discretion over each worker's raises: an idea abhorred by unions. The General Motors strike began after the company refused to make good on promises to invest $300 million in a metal-stamping plant in Flint, Mich.
"All of these strikes show unions' willingness to fight back more," said Richard Hurd, a professor of labor relations at Cornell University. "But it's not clear to me whether these strikes are caused by newfound aggressiveness on the part of unions or newfound aggressiveness on the part of employers."
John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., attributes the increase in strikes to both sides: greater labor confidence and to management hardheadedness. He said it was understandable that workers opt to strike when many corporations are making record profits and union members feel they are not getting their fair share of the expanding pie.
Mr. Sweeney called the current Northwest Airlines pilots' strike an example of this, asserting that the airline had made a stingy offer to its 6,200 pilots despite the company's booming profits and soaring executive pay. But the airline maintains that it cannot meet the pilots' demands, which it says would make them the nation's highest-paid pilots.
"What we're seeing is a complete lack of respect for workers, for the jobs they do," Mr. Sweeney said in a telephone interview with reporters. "We're seeing so many examples of how insensitive corporate America can be to their workers."
Labor leaders also note that workers' wages are finally climbing faster than inflation, after years of lagging behind. Despite recent wage gains, the average worker's inflation-adjusted wages remain 3 percent below 1989 levels.
But they fear that the slowing economy and reeling stock market will soon cause corporate America to clamp down on wage increases.
"If there is an economic slowdown or a recession, then wages won't fully recover to where they were in 1989," said Lawrence Mishel, research director of the Economic Policy Institute, a union-backed research center.
Despite the unions' new aggressiveness and their recent strike successes, labor is still faced with a declining membership.
There were victories in recruitment of new members, like organizing 19,000 passenger-service workers at United Airlines. So far, however, labor has fallen short of the goal Mr. Sweeney set upon becoming president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. nearly three years ago: to increase the labor federation's membership, now at 13 million, by 3 percent a year.
Nonetheless, Mr. Sweeney predicts that the labor movement will be adding, not losing, members over all within a year or two because unions are pumping more money and manpower into organizing.
Unions represent 14 percent of all workers, down from 35 percent in the 1950's, and Mr. Sweeney has repeatedly warned that unless labor recruits millions of workers, it risks fading into irrelevance and losing its bargaining clout. Under him, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has allocated $20 million a year for organizing, up from $2.5 million before he was elected.
The federation says that unions recruited nearly 400,000 new members last year, but nonetheless, union membership is down by more than 200,000 since early 1996, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The recruitment gains have been outweighed by losses caused by layoffs, plant closings and other factors.
Organizing faces other problems. The highly publicized campaign to unionize 20,000 strawberry workers in California has made little headway. And the teamsters' financial scandals and unions' tradition of holding lavish conventions in places like Hawaii have hardly helped labor burnish their image or woo new members.
"They're up against some pretty daunting challenges," said Mr. Cleary, of the manufacturers association. "You look at where the new jobs are -- data base administration, systems analysts -- and unions have not had much luck penetrating those occupations. And if you look where the job growth is geographically -- in the South and Southwest -- these are areas where labor hasn't had great success."
Nonetheless, Mr. Sweeney predicts that the labor movement will be adding members over all within a year or two largely because unions are pumping much more money into organizing. He boasted that 8 unions had membership growth of at least 3 percent last year, but that is a small fraction of the 70-plus unions in the federation. He also boasted that a handful of unions, like the Service Employees International, have met his goal of devoting 30 percent of their budget to organizing.
But many labor experts are unimpressed. "My assessment is that union organizing efforts have only been modestly successful," said Professor Hurd, of Cornell. "There's not a tremendously significant movement building for a wholehearted shift in commitment to organizing. You can't blame Sweeney. The bottom line is decisions have to be made by people in individual unions, and in most of those unions, hard decisions are not being made."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS INC (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; STRIKES; LABOR UNIONS LABOR UNIONS (93%); STRIKES (92%); AIRLINES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE METAL STAMPING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); TRENDS (78%); OVERTIME (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); MERIT PAY (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); METAL STAMPING (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JOHN J SWEENEY (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



214 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: As Irked Creditors Wait, Officials Squabble in Syracuse Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
It is the sort of fight usually found on a playground, complete with glares, name-calling and a tussle over strawberry Twizzlers.
But this dispute is going on in a courtroom in upstate New York, where two men who are supposed to be unraveling an enormous financial mess are fighting each other instead. 
 Their battle is just the latest twist in the case of Bennett Funding Group, a Syracuse operation that the authorities call the biggest pyramid scheme in American history. When the concern, which financed equipment leases collapsed in 1996, about 10,000 people -- many of them retirees from New York, New Jersey and Florida -- lost as much as $600 million.
Richard C. Breeden, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, is responsible for trying to get their money back. As trustee of the Bennett companies' bankruptcy, he has already had unusual success, recently mailing checks to investors totaling $50 million. While that amounts to only about 6 cents for every dollar lost, most victims of pyramid schemes are lucky to get even a penny back.
And Mr. Breeden promises more to come, including $125 million from an insurance settlement.
But in the course of his efforts, he has run afoul of Guy A. Van Baalen, a Justice Department official based in Utica whose job is to supervise bankruptcies in northern New York.
In court documents, Mr. Van Baalen accuses Mr. Breeden, whose pay as trustee amounts to $600,000 a year, of overbilling for his work (and for personal expenses like candy), and with creating conflicts of interest so serious that he should be removed from the case. Among other things, Mr. Van Baalen criticizes Mr. Breeden for serving as chairman of Equivest Finance Inc., a company invested in by the Bennett group, whose ownership stake has been taken over by the creditors.
Mr. Breeden contends that Mr. Van Baalen is a petty bureaucrat who has willfully misunderstood his efforts to help the investors. "I control the company because it's the creditors', and I want to be damn sure how their money is spent," Mr. Breeden said of his role at Equivest, which finances consumers' purchases of time-share resorts.
The dispute has delayed -- and may ultimately derail -- Mr. Breeden's efforts to sell stock in Equivest, which he describes as the only valuable asset Bennett has. But even if the sale occurs, Wall Street's sharp decline has cut into the value of the stock, which was trading for almost $175 million in late July but today is worth less than $100 million.
Mr. Van Baalen opposes the sale, saying Mr. Breeden has not given the court enough information about it. But he says he understands that it is the foundation of Mr. Breeden's efforts to recover money for the investors. "The trustee has put so much into this sale of stock as really crucial, that if it doesn't go . . . oh, my God," he said.
All of which has some people involved in the case rolling their eyes in exasperation. Indeed, a creditors' committee that represents almost all the individual investors in the case asked the bankruptcy judge in the case to put off any discussion on the conflict-of-interest allegations until after he rules on the Equivest sale, which he may do this week.
While the committee has criticized Mr. Breeden's fees -- and what it calls his high-handed ways -- it wants the stock sale to go through, said Daniel M. Stolz, a lawyer for the creditors.
How this dispute is resolved has enormous implications for the reputations of the men involved and for the thousands of investors who are awaiting more cash.
It may also affect the criminal trial of Patrick R. Bennett, who ran the Bennett companies and has been charged with 37 counts related to securities fraud. His trial is to begin in November in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
The dispute may ultimately have implications for Syracuse, the struggling upstate city of 164,000 where the whole mess began. Though the city's economy is starting to show signs of growth after years of stagnation, the pace is slow -- the city added just 200 new jobs in the year ended in June, according to the State Department of Labor, an increase of 0.1 percent (in New York City, by contrast, jobs increased by 2.3 percent in the same period).
So Syracuse is still a place where every job counts. At its peak, the Bennett group employed 250 people, the bulk of whom still work there but could become unemployed as the bankruptcy winds down. Mr. Breeden hopes Equivest will be able to hire some of them.
The Bennett companies were founded in 1977 by Edmund T. Bennett, known as Bud, and his wife, Kathleen. The bulk of their business came from financing leases on office equipment, like copiers and fax machines, which are often rented by state and local governments.
The company appeared to be extremely successful. From 1985 to 1987, it made Inc. magazine's list of the 500 fastest-growing private companies in America. The elder Bennetts, and their two sons, Patrick and Michael, became important figures and philanthropists in Syracuse.
"They were big, let me tell you, big things in the community," said William J. Moran, who runs the Hiawatha Council of Boy Scouts there. "They supported the nonprofit community to a great degree -- people would have gone to the end of the earth for them."
By 1990, according to court documents, the Bennetts began selling the leases, and pools of leases, to investors. Most of the sales were done through small brokerage firms, which described the leases to clients as very conservative investments.
Regulators were not so sure. In 1994, the Securities and Exchange Commission began looking into the Bennett empire.
In March 1996, the S.E.C. sued the company and Patrick Bennett, accusing him of selling $570 million of unregistered securities and of running a giant Ponzi scheme, in which early "investors" were paid off with the money put in by later "investors."
Some leases had been sold to more than one investor, and some were made up out of whole cloth, Mr. Breeden said. All the money that came in as lease payments, and all the money paid out to investors, came from a general fund that he calls "the honey pot." The Bennetts themselves used money from the pot to buy various things, but seemed to specialize in unprofitable gambling properties, including an unfinished riverboat, a defunct casino and a failing race track.
The day after the S.E.C. filed suit, the Bennett companies filed for bankruptcy protection. The following month, Mr. Breeden, with the support of his old agency, was appointed trustee by the Justice Department. It was a decision made over the head of Mr. Van Baalen's predecessor.
That may have been the start of Mr. Breeden's problems, although the life of a trustee is almost never a happy one. The trustee often becomes a focus for the anger of all the people affected by the bankruptcy, who resent the trustee for making money off their misery.
That is particularly true when, as in Mr. Breeden's case, he is making quite a lot of money. He stands to make millions of dollars, depending on how much he recovers for creditors, in addition to his annual $600,000 salary, which, he asserts, is not too much for someone who is running an enormous, complex operation.
But it sure looks like a lot in Syracuse, where the average worker makes less than $28,000 a year.
And Mr. Breeden has taken some very unpopular steps, including suing the defrauded investors to adjust the amounts of their claims.
Not surprisingly, emotions seem to run particularly high in the Bennett collapse. In Syracuse, "it was quite a shock at the time -- people didn't want to believe it," said Charley Hannagan, a reporter for the Syracuse newspapers who has written extensively about the case.
As for the investors, she recalled, "I would go to a meeting and people would stand up and cry."
Some investors continue to believe in the Bennetts, noting that the allegations of fraud have never been proved in court. The elder Bennetts have never been charged; according to court documents, Michael Bennett, who was charged with one court each of conspiracy and obstruction of justice, is expected to reach a plea agreement with prosecutors.
Patrick Bennett denies that there was any scheme to defraud investors. "In his opinion, there were enough assets there to pay the creditors, and if they were short, it was only 5 percent or 10 percent," said Richard Croak, an Albany lawyer who represents Mr. Bennett in the bankruptcy case.
"Pat is just an ordinary guy from Syracuse who got involved in this thing," Mr. Croak said. "He's not a criminal."
Patrick Bennett's parents go even further -- they appear to attribute all of the company's problems to Mr. Breeden, who they say developed a conspiracy against them dating to 1989 or 1990, during his tenure as S.E.C. chief.
Mr. Croak declined to comment on the elder Bennetts' allegations, but he has asked the court to allow him to depose Mr. Breeden about some of the potential conflicts raised by Mr. Van Baalen.
Stephen D. Gerling of Utica, chief bankruptcy judge of the Northern District of New York, denied the request last month, saying that allowing everyone involved in the case to depose Mr. Breeden would cause chaos.
"Mail arrives almost daily both applauding and criticizing the activities of the trustee," the judge said. "I dare say we would have examinations every day of every week for the next year and a half, if I were to order opening the proverbial Pandora's box."
If Mr. Breeden won that skirmish, he has also lost some. After an uproar over his purchase last year of about $17,000 of Equivest stock, he agreed to donate his shares to the University of Syracuse.
And last week, Judge Gerling ruled that Mr. Breeden must either resign as trustee or give up another of his jobs, as consultant to the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche. The problem, the judge said, is that Deloitte will not reveal all of its clients, some of whom may be involved in the bankruptcy.
But the judge's underlying complaint, and one of Mr. Van Baalen's as well, is that Mr. Breeden was slow to tell them about the consulting job, and provided little information when he did tell them. "The trustee appears to believe that the court and the parties should simply rely on him as a fiduciary to make an independent determination that he remains disinterested," Judge Gerling wrote disapprovingly.
That is exactly what Mr. Breeden says. Saying that he is doing what is best for the defrauded investors, he interprets Mr. Van Baalen's queries as attacks on his integrity.
"There has never been a trustee more honest or who has worked any harder than I have," Mr. Breeden said. "This is not a game -- it is a system that needs to insure the best results" for creditors.
And results, he added, "speak louder than words."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard C. Breeden, trustee in the Bennett group bankruptcy. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EQUI (NASDAQ) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (65%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (65%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: BENNETT FUNDING GROUP INC; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; EQUIVEST (CO) EQUIVEST FINANCE INC (65%); BENNETT FUNDING GROUP INC (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BENNETT FUNDING GROUP INC; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; EQUIVEST (CO) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PYRAMID SCHEMES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); HISTORY (70%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (70%); ETHICS (65%); RESORTS (50%); 

PERSON: BREEDEN, RICHARD C; VAN BAALEN, GUY A; EATON, LESLIE RICHARD C BREEDEN (94%); VAN BAALEN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



215 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Northwest Strike Mediator Sends the Negotiators Home

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
After shuttling between negotiators for Northwest Airlines and its striking pilots for two days, a Federal mediator sent the two sides home yesterday and asked them to redouble their efforts to bring an end to the nine-day strike, which has grounded Northwest's nearly 1,700 daily flights.
The National Mediation Board, which has been supervising negotiations between the airline and its 6,200 pilots since June, said that further meetings would be held in Minneapolis on Tuesday. 
 People briefed on the discussions said that little progress was made at the weekend session, which was called by the board last week at the behest of Transportation Secretary Rodney E. Slater to see if resuming negotiations would be productive. The meeting took place at a hotel near Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. The two sides met separately with the mediator.
The board's statement said the weekend meetings "involved the parameters of a settlement," but it did not elaborate. The statement pointed to the substantive differences between the two sides and asked them to reconsider their positions.
Northwest, the country's fourth-largest airline, dominates air service in the upper Midwest and middle South.
The governors of several states, including Minnesota, Michigan and North Dakota, have called on President Clinton to halt the strike. Last year, Mr. Clinton ordered pilots at American Airlines back to work minutes after they struck, saying that a strike would cause too much disruption to the economy. The White House, while following the situation closely, has resisted intervening in the Northwest strike, a move the company would welcome.
Pay and job security are the main issues in the strike, which is the longest in the industry since Eastern Airlines machinists walked out in 1989. Analysts say that the hard line taken by each side overshadows the narrow differences between the positions. The pilots say their demands would cost the company only $70 million a year; Northwest says the figure is closer to $170 million. The strike has already cost Northwest an estimated $300 million in expenses and lost revenue.
Pilots are angry that Northwest has resisted giving them a substantial raise after they and other unions made wage concessions in 1993 to save the airline from bankruptcy. Since then, Northwest has posted four years of record profits and its executives have cashed in stock options worth millions.
Northwest, which is also in negotiations with unions representing its flight attendants, customer service representatives and machinists, says that it cannot afford to give the pilots what they want.
It was unclear whether Tuesday's meeting would lead to a resumption of negotiations, which were last held on Aug. 28, hours before the pilots walked out.
A spokesman for the board declined to comment on the talks, as did representatives of Northwest and the Air Line Pilots Association. Another airline, Airtran, narrowly averted disruption over the weekend when it reached agreement on a new four-year contract with its flight attendants. The tentative agreement would give 500 flight attendants an immediate 10 percent raise plus 4 percent annual raises.
It was the first tentative contract for the Association of Flight Attendants at Airtran, which is based in Orlando, Fla., and was formerly called Valujet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES; AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN EASTERN AIR LINES INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (58%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWEST AIRLINES; AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (58%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; PILOTS; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES AIRLINES (92%); STRIKES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (61%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



216 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: In Senate Race, 3 City Candidates Accentuate Upstate Ties

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: WATERTOWN, N.Y., Sept. 4

 BODY:
Before a dinner of pizza and beer in a back room at Pete's, an Italian restaurant and bar here in the northernmost reaches of New York State, Mark Green offered what has become his trademark serenade to voters outside of New York City as he pursues the Democratic nomination for United States Senate.
"I was born in Brooklyn, raised in Nassau," Mr. Green said. "My wife grew up in Westchester." He added that he attended Cornell University in Tompkins County, and hastened to introduce his 19-year-old daughter, Jenya, who is a sophomore at the school in Ithaca and had accompanied her father to underscore the point. 
 Earlier in the day, Geraldine A. Ferraro, the former vice presidential candidate who is also seeking the nomination, made a point of reminding voters in Middletown, her first stop on a three-day upstate campaign swing, that she was born in Orange County and spent her earliest childhood years there.
And on his visits north, Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn, the third major Democratic contender, sometimes tells people that his father was born in Utica. And for good measure, he tries to demonstrate his local affinity by traveling with Congressional colleagues or other area officials who support his candidacy.
In the upper corridors of New York State, these final days before the Sept. 15 primary are treating Democratic voters to the spectacle of three quintessential New York City politicians striving for votes by grasping for ties that stretch beyond the five boroughs and their suburbs.
Mr. Green, who is New York City's Public Advocate, lives on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, and dresses it. Mr. Schumer, the nine-term Congressman, lives in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and sounds it. And Ms. Ferraro, who is a former Representative from Queens, still has a home in Forest Hills Gardens.
So, running for statewide office presents a beguiling challenge: how to connect to the voters of western, central and northern New York, who are generally skeptical and often feel as shunted to the margins politically as they are geographically.
That obstacle can be even greater in a Democratic primary because rural voters, even registered Democrats, tend to be more conservative and because the conventional wisdom suggests that their votes matter little. Typically, more than 70 percent of primary ballots are cast in New York City and its suburbs.
"There's a feeling up here sometimes among Democrats that we're ignored," said Mike Schell, the former Democratic chairman of Jefferson County who now heads the Democratic Rural Conference, a coalition of party leaders from the state's 41 smallest counties.
But with Ms. Ferraro, Mr. Green and Mr. Schumer all extremely well known in New York City, the candidates and their aides say that votes north and west of Rockland County could prove crucial in the primary.
At her campaign stop in Middletown, Ms. Ferraro said that she expects that the major candidates "will split the city, a third each." She said that to lift her to victory this year, she is "banking on" the city's suburbs and upstate, where she scored well in her unsuccessful bid for the nomination in 1992.
Mr. Green, who was the Democratic nominee in 1986 but lost to Alfonse M. D'Amato, the Republican who still holds the seat, has also put higher stakes in his upstate campaign. He began courting the Democratic Rural Conference when it was first created two years ago and won the group's endorsement in March.
"I have a lot of room to grow upstate because I'm less well known there," said Mr. Green, whose campaign began airing two television advertisements in upstate media markets within the last week. "I gain more and more rapidly once they know I'm not just some downstate stranger."
Mr. Schumer has declined to characterize any region of the state as more or less important to his campaign strategy. But he has made a point of emphasizing particular local issues whenever he travels north and has enlisted many upstate elected officials to boost his candidacy.
"Any candidate from anywhere in the state can become well-known upstate if they do one of two things -- visit frequently or appear in the media frequently," said Robert Cook, the Monroe County Democratic chairman. "Schumer has been pretty generous with media buys. People know him."
Mr. Cook has not endorsed any of the candidates, but many county chairmen have. Of the state's 62 counties, Mr. Green claims 31 as his supporters, Ms. Ferraro says she has the backing of 13 and Mr. Schumer has 6 behind him.
Each of the candidates has taken a different approach to practical campaigning upstate. Mr. Green hascampaign offices in Buffalo and Rochester. Ms. Ferraro, who had a highly organized upstate effort in 1992, has more loosely organized support this year.
Mr. Schumer, who has raised far more money than either Mr. Green or Ms. Ferraro, has made quick trips upstate by airplane to hold news conferences or attend events.
"I've had Chuck on a cycle," said G. Steven Pigeon, the Erie County chairman, who is supporting Mr. Schumer. "He's campaigning like he's running for county executive, hitting all the public events," Mr. Pigeon said.
Mr. Schell, of Jefferson County and the Rural Democratic Conference, said Mr. Green's manner appealed to northern voters. "He is able to bridge whatever differences there are in personalities upstate and downstate," he said. "That probably comes from his being educated up here and growing up in the suburbs."
Mark Glavin, the Rensselaer chairman, who is supporting Ms. Ferraro, said, "You have got to have someone on the line who can generate the enthusiasm. She's the only one who can beat D'Amato. It's important to have someone who can appeal to the whole state, especially upstate."
New York's northern and western tiers are far more crucial in a general election than in a primary. Mr. D'Amato proved that in 1986 when Mr. Green fared better in New York City, but Mr. D'Amato retained his seat by trouncing Mr. Green in the suburbs and upstate.
Often, the candidates gently tailor their messages to the upstate crowds. Mr. Green, for instance, speaking to aides, described his support by the Democratic chairmen of the seven most northeastern counties as a "yarmulke on New York State." But in the speech later at Pete's restaurant, he said they "formed a cap on the north country."
In terms of issues, all three candidates put more emphasis on the upstate economy, which has not kept pace with the growth downstate. On the stump, the candidates often face questions ranging from their views on the dairy industry to the Russian economy.
But despite their efforts, voters say the New York City candidates still have work to do. At The Crystal Restaurant in Watertown -- which opened in 1919 and still has an "All Legal Beverages" sign dating from Prohibition -- Jim Walsh, a lifelong Democrat, said he felt little attachment to any of the primary contenders.
"I like Ferraro, I used to watch her on Crossfire," said Mr. Walsh, who is 67. "But I don't like her husband and his antics. Mark Green doesn't mean much to me because he's never been brought to the forefront here. He's pretty much a city boy. Schumer, he's another. He's a House of Representatives guy. That's all I know about him."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (64%); 

PERSON: GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); FERRARO, GERALDINE A; HERSZENHORN, DAVID M CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



217 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: $200,000 Lost in an Investment Gone Bad

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Sometimes it can be hard to have sympathy for the kinds of people who fall for securities schemes: the greedy, the gullible, the gamblers. But in the case of the Bennett Funding Group, lawyers say, most victims were careful, conservative people who thought they were putting their money somewhere safe.
People like Richard Schiff, 77, a retired businessman from Long Island who now lives in Boca Raton, Fla. Mr. Schiff lost his $200,000 retirement account by investing in Bennett. While he is not impoverished by the loss, Mr. Schiff said, "That income would have been very useful." 
 The son of a Russian immigrant who ran a small lumberyard in Brooklyn, Mr. Schiff made a career selling plastic laminates, like Formica, and, with his wife of 53 years, brought up two children. Heart problems forced him to retire about 20 years ago.
When Mr. Schiff invested in the Bennett group, he thought he was buying "leases from the Federal Government for mail trucks," he said, with an interest rate of 9 percent. In 1996, after having invested $135,000 directly in Bennett leases, he agreed to put $65,000 from his individual retirement account into what he thought was a Bennett-sponsored fund; four days later, the Bennett companies filed for bankruptcy.
A supporter of Mr. Breeden, Mr. Schiff said he was happy to be finally recouping money from his investment. But the status of the money in the fund remains unclear.
Haunted by the fear that the Bennetts or their associates would somehow get control of that money, Mr. Schiff has hired lawyers to protect his interests and those of the other fund investors. And despite his ill health he has traveled to Utica to appear in bankruptcy court in the case.
"It's not only to recover my money -- I won't stand for somebody getting away with stealing," he said. "I'm angry the system allowed this to happen."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BENNETT FUNDING GROUP INC BENNETT FUNDING GROUP INC (58%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BENNETT FUNDING GROUP INC LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PYRAMID SCHEMES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BANKRUPTCIES PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); PLASTIC LAMINATES (69%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (65%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (55%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: SCHIFF, RICHARD; EATON, LESLIE RICHARD SCHIFF (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



218 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: More Jobs, Less Security

 BODY:
As America pauses for Labor Day, more people have jobs than ever before and the unemployment rate is close to its lowest level in a generation. At the same time, people are less likely to keep their jobs for long periods, and the level of layoffs is considerably higher than it was in earlier economic cycles. These facts are indicative of a vibrant, competitive economy that provides less security, for either workers or the companies that hire them, than the American economy seemed to offer in decades past.
This lack of security is reflected in numerous ways. Companies are more likely to cut costs quickly in response to competitive pressures than they once were, leading to more layoffs during the current economic recovery, which has endured for eight years, than in previous ones. Deregulation of many industries, from trucking to telecommunications, has led to new patterns of competition in which some companies must shed workers while competitors are hiring. 
 The society has changed to cope with that movement. Pension plans, for example, are more likely to be defined contribution plans, such as 401(k)'s, which can move with a worker, rather than defined benefit plans in which benefits are forfeited if a worker does not stay with a company for at least five years.
That mobility of workers -- sometimes voluntarily through getting better jobs and sometimes involuntarily through layoffs and downsizing -- reflects a worldwide trend. Countries that have accepted it tend to do much better economically than those that have not, although at a cost of increased worker anxiety. Japan is only grudgingly moving away from the lifetime employment policy that damaged the competitiveness of Japanese companies during this decade. Neither Russia nor China has yet dealt adequately with the large state enterprises that have provided employment -- and social services -- for millions but that cannot profitably make products that people want.
For much of the 1980's and 1990's, economic statistics seemed to show that real wages -- what workers make, adjusted for inflation -- had stagnated in this country. Some thought that reflected the declining power of unions -- which now represent about 13 percent of workers, down from a peak of 23 percent -- as well as fears of job loss. The problem may have been overstated, however, because inflation was actually lower than the consumer price index indicated and recent figures show a better picture.
The August unemployment report, released Friday, showed that real wages had risen about 2 percent a year for the past two years. That may not sound like a lot, but it is the largest such gain in a quarter-century. Workers are now benefiting from the combination of a tight domestic labor market and an Asian recession that is holding down the prices of many things people buy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: JAPANESE COS (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WAGES AND SALARIES LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); US 401K PLANS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



219 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1713 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Warning of Chaos in Russia Unless Political Fights End
Viktor S. Chernomyrdin warned on national television that Russia has entered a fiscal nosedive and that further political squabbling could lead to social chaos, on the night before Russia's Parliament was to vote again on whether to confirm him as the country's Prime Minister. A1
 
Floods Ravage Bangladesh
More than 20 million homes in Bangladesh have been swamped by monsoon season flooding that has lasted almost two months, twice as long as other recorded floods. The waters have inundated more than half of the country, killed more than 520 people, shut down roads, damaged more than 4,000 schools and wiped out a big portion of the rice crop. A1 

Embassy Bombing Arrests
Investigators have arrested two more suspects in the bombing of the United States Embassy in Tanzania and have made significant progress in determining how the bomb was made and taken to the embassy, Federal Bureau of Investigation and local police officials say. The arrests came in the same week that agents investigating the simultaneous attack on the American Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, began focusing on a Muslim businessman from the Comoros Islands. A3
 
Eternal Leader in North Korea
North Korea announced that it had revised its Constitution to make its former "Great Leader," Kim Il Sung, the country's "eternal President." President Kim's son Kim Jong Il, the country's longtime "Dear Leader," will in effect be head of state, as chairman of the National Defense Commission. The action leaves North Korea without a living President. A5
 
Rice Cost Threatens Indonesia
Experts are warning that the dramatic increase in the price of rice in Indonesia is the biggest threat to stability in the country, as it struggles to regain its political and economic footing. Food riots have already erupted in parts of eastern Java and could spread to major cities like Jakarta. A6
 
I.R.A. Leader on Disarming
Gerry Adams, the leader of the political wing of the Irish Republican Army, said that he could not guarantee that the I.R.A. would agree to disarm during talks in the new Northern Ireland Assembly. But last week, Mr. Adams, the president of Sinn Fein, had emphasized that sectarian warfare was a thing of the past. A8
 
Nonaligned Countries Meet
Delegates from 113 countries held a summit meeting last week in the South African coastal city of Durban. The chief issues the delegates were said to have discussed were not those topping the Clinton-Yeltsin agenda in Moscow; in fact, the Congo war eclipsed planned talks. It was the 12th meeting of the nonaligned movement, founded as a forum for nations that are neither pro-American nor pro-Soviet. A4
 
NATIONAL A9-12
 
Republicans Optimistic About Midterm Elections
As they take to the trail this Labor Day for the traditional opening of the fall campaigns, Republican and Democratic candidates say the Lewinsky matter, a jittery stock market and tumult abroad have thrust them into the most unsettled, and unpredictable, election season in years. The uncertainty has already altered the calculations of Republicans, who say they have the most to gain, particularly from President Clinton's difficulties. By contrast, Democrats find themselves on the defensive. A1
 
Surge in Union Strikes
The recent strikes at Northwest Airlines, General Motors, Bell Atlantic and U S West represent the biggest surge in major walkouts in years and, industrial relations experts say, point to a new aggressiveness on the part of the nation's labor unions. Even though union membership is slipping and the economy is slowing, the experts say, unions have grown bolder because of the tight labor market, more combative union leadership and the teamsters' gains in last year's U.P.S. strike. A12
 
A Federal mediator sent negotiators for Northwest Airlines and its striking pilots home, asking them to redouble efforts to end the nine-day strike, which has grounded Northwest's nearly 1,700 daily flights. A12
 
Panel Seeks Broad Powers
The Judiciary Committee, headed by Representative Henry J. Hyde, Republican of Illinois, is seeking sweeping powers never granted to a House panel, as it prepares to accept the report from the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr. The committee will review President Clinton's conduct in the Lewinsky matter and House Democratic and Republican leaders will try to resolve the debate over exempting the committee from many House rules. A10
 
President Clinton's personal behavior remains Topic A on Capitol Hill since he admitted to having had an inappropriate relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky, a former White House intern, and lying about it. A11
 
Hiring Bonuses for Teachers
Long accustomed to being supplicants within the labor force, candidates for public-school teaching jobs -- especially in special education, math and science -- are being put in the decidedly unfamiliar position of being wooed with financial sweeteners. In Baltimore this summer, prospective special education teachers were in such demand that those with just a year's experience were offered the starting salaries of four-year veterans. In Massachusetts, nearly 200 of the promising rookie teachers who apply to work in the commonwealth's schools next year will receive $20,000 signing bonuses. A9
 
High Price of Gas in Texas
A citizens movement to protest the high price of gasoline has become the hottest political issue in El Paso, drawing in state officials and becoming entangled with a contentious proposal to open a pipeline from the Gulf Coast -- a kind of cavalry charging to the rescue. A9
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Swissair Flight Recorder Is Found in Nova Scotia
Divers found one of the two flight data recorders from Swissair Flight 111 on a rocky stretch of sea bottom littered with debris and three major pieces of wreckage of the MD-11. The discovery in Peggy's Cove, Nova Scotia, raised hopes that investigators would soon know why the plane crashed offshore last week, killing everyone aboard, after a pilot reported smoke in the cockpit. No additional remains of the 229 victims were identified, nor were large numbers of victims found. But officials were clearly relieved that a Navy diving tender, the Sechelt, had found one of the plane's two "black boxes." The box was brought ashore, where technicians immersed it in fresh water and sealed it for immediate shipment to a Transportation Safety Board laboratory in Ottawa. Also, the medical examiner said that the victims' remains were simply in poor condition and DNA analysis could not be performed on all of the remains, so some would be frozen until lawyers and ethicists could decide what to do. A1
 
Harlem Rally Under Dispute
Khallid Abdul Muhammad, the chief organizer of a weekend youth rally in Harlem, was the focus of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's stepped-up defense of police officers who stormed the stage at a the rally on Saturday. The Mayor gave conflicting explanations for the police action. First he said the rally's organizers had flouted a court-ordered deadline for ending the rally. Later he said the police moved in when Mr. Muhammad began inveighing against them. Organizers and community leaders in Harlem accused the city of using excessive force and threatened to sue. A1
 
New Focus on Upstate Voters
In the upper corridors of New York State, these final days before the Sept. 15 primary are treating Democratic voters to the spectacle of three quintessential New York City politicians striving for votes by grasping for ties that stretch beyond the five boroughs and their suburbs. They face a beguiling challenge: how to connect to the voters of western, central and northern New York, who are generally skeptical and often feel as shunted to the margins politically as they are geographically. B1
 
ARTS E1-10
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
Shift Seen in Yankees' Goal
Hideki Irabu was a Cy Young award candidate in May, a possible All-Star in June. Now he is in jeopardy of being dropped from the Yankees' rotation and, eventually, from their playoff roster. He gave up six runs to the Chicago White Sox and the Yankees lost 6-5. They have lost 10 of their last 18 games; they must win 17 of their last 22 to pass the mark of 116, set by the 1906 Chicago Cubs. But their focus seems to have shifted to the playoffs. D6
 
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-8
 
Microsoft Suit Strategies
With the filing of witness lists on Friday night, the Government and the Microsoft Corporation offered the first glimpse of their courtroom strategies in the historic antitrust trial scheduled this month. The Government will portray Microsoft as an information-age monopolist and Microsoft plans a defense with one conspicuous absence -- William H. Gates, the company's chairman. C1
 
Start-Ups Suffer Market Jitters
If the market falls further and looks as if it will not bounce back, investments by venture capitalists and public stock investors in small technology companies will slow, bankers and investors say. But for now, there is still a lot of money poised to be invested in promising new start-up companies involved in information technology and the Internet. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES A14-15
Akira Kurosawa
One of the handful of truly important directors that the cinema has produced, was 88. He personified Japanese movies -- his work includes "Seven Samurai" and "Rashomon" -- to most of the world. A1
 
Frances Hamerstrom
The author, conservationist and wildlife biologist, who discovered a passion for observing nature as a young girl in Boston and pursued that passion throughout her life, was 90. A14
 
Kirk O'Donnell
The lawyer and lobbyist for a leading Washington law firm and the former chief aide to former Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., was 52. A14
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
Editorials: Helping Kosovo's displaced; more jobs, less security; Brent Staples on remedial education at CUNY.
Columns: Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E6
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather A12

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); BANGLADESH (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDONESIA (92%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); COMOROS (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES PHILIPPINES (65%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); BANGLADESH (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDONESIA (92%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); COMOROS (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RIOTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); POLICE FORCES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); RICE FARMING (69%); US LABOR DAY (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



220 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Can the Global Economy Really Stabilize Itself?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
If there is a bright side to the recent turmoil in the financial markets, it is the attention focused on the ways in which the United States benefits from a robust world economy. In "Rebound on Wall Street" (editorial, Sept. 2), you recognize that it is important for the United States "to get the world growing again." 
 All of this is welcome relief from the chorus of alarm raised by prominent commentators over the past few years. Ignoring long-established economic principles and empirical data to the contrary, they consider global trade a zero-sum competition among countries and a significant threat to American workers.
If this were true, the demise of our foreign "competitors" in Asia and political instability in Russia would foretell glory days for the United States. The concern with which markets and commentators alike have greeted current developments represents a welcome and overdue reaffirmation of the importance of world economic growth to our domestic economy.
 
KENNETH OBEL
Chicago, Sept. 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BONDS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TRENDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); 

PERSON: OBEL, KENNETH

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



221 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: Can the Global Economy Really Stabilize Itself?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
There are two key points that Ron Chernow overlooks in "Hard-Charging Bulls and Red Flags" (Op-Ed, Sept. 2). First, no investor on Wall Street loses a nickel until he actually makes the decision to sell his stock. One hundred shares of Exxon remain 100 shares, whatever their value on the current market. 
 Second, the dividends from stocks remain precisely today where they were three months ago (or may even have risen), whatever the trading price. These are powerful reasons to remain committed to one's market holdings.
 
HAYFORD PEIRCE
Tucson, Ariz., Sept. 2, 1998

GRAPHIC: Drawing (J. D. King)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (69%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); ARIZONA, USA (69%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BONDS (88%); DIVIDENDS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: PEIRCE, HAYFORD; CHERNOW, RON RON CHERNOW (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



222 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Can the Global Economy Really Stabilize Itself?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
It is not only "an irony" that "the apparent health of the American economy may end up hurting the world," as you point in your Sept. 2 editorial "Rebound on Wall Street." Tearing down national barriers to capital flight, which is what leads to the kind of "capital starvation" you allude to, is a key and essential tenet of our trade policy. 
 The Multinational Agreement on Investments, an important trade treaty being negotiated in Paris with the full support of the United States, will increase capital mobility to the point where investors in developed nations will have smaller countries by the throat.
In addition to limiting the rights of nations to impose environmental restrictions on foreign investors, including limits on foreign ownership of natural resources or the media, the treaty would have a cumulative effect: placing investors' rights over traditional rights of national sovereignty.
 
SETH BARRON
New York, Sept. 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS (FRANCE); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (72%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TREATIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRENDS (88%); BONDS (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (87%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (87%); NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: BARRON, SETH

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



223 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: Can the Global Economy Really Stabilize Itself?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Michael M. Weinstein (Economic Scene, Sept. 3) suggests that stocks rarely steer the economy and that there is no need to lower interest rates because doing so will not help the United States or foreign economies much. He implies that the United States economy will continue to prosper regardless of the stock market or Federal Reserve interest rates. 
 The conclusions are debatable. Since we sell as well as buy products abroad, recession outside the United States is bound to spill over to this country. Furthermore, there is a moral obligation to help our neighbors who have helped us to control inflation by selling us inexpensive products. Lower interest rates can reduce the danger of recession and this relationship applies globally. A few ounces of preventive action now can save pounds of problems for the less fortunate nations and the United States.
 
GEORGE J. KROL
New Haven, Sept. 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INFLATION (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: KROL, GEORGE J; WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M MICHAEL M WEINSTEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



224 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Nonaligned Movement Meets, Out of the Spotlight

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Sept. 6

 BODY:
Meanwhile, 6,200 miles to the south . . .
While President Clinton, representative of the world's lone superpower, was in Moscow last week bear-hugging Boris N. Yeltsin, master of a former superpower, delegates from 113 countries were holding another summit meeting in the South African coastal city of Durban. 
 It was the 12th meeting of the nonaligned movement, which was founded in 1961, largely at the urging of India, Indonesia and Yugoslavia, as a forum for nations that were neither pro-American nor pro-Soviet and considered themselves the blades of grass that suffer whenever elephants got together in Moscow and Washington.
Naturally, with the cold war past, the week began with reporters pestering them with the same question: "Nonaligned to what?" The summit's diplomats had a ready answer: Nonaligned to a world that still reflects post-World War II and colonialist priorities. Nonaligned to a global economy in which small countries lose their shirts overnight when speculators dump their currency. Nonaligned to a United Nations where the Big Five still have the veto and will risk their soldiers' lives in Bosnia but not in Congo or Rwanda.
As the week went on, the meeting's official agenda was eclipsed by talks about the Congo war. As they ended with no cease-fire and talks about further talks, the focus shifted back to the main nonevent.
The chief issues the delegates were said to be discussing were not those topping the Clinton-Yeltsin agenda in Moscow. They included Congo, American cruise missile attacks on sites in Afghanistan and the Sudan, the switch by India and Pakistan from nonnuclear to nuclear states and Libya's hesitation to send suspects in the Lockerbie plane bombing to the Netherlands for trial.
But one had to take the word of leakers for it. Since most of the nonaligned movement's countries are less than open, reporters were barred from the hall where they were meeting. Instead, reporters sat in rows at a cavernous exhibit hall nearby, watching BBC television on big monitors and trying to arrange interviews with delegates by calling their South African military escorts.
Officials from a few nations deigned to cross the street to speak with the press.
Pierre Buyoya, the President of Burundi, who came to power in a 1996 coup, appeared to plug his new autobiography, "Mission Possible." A Thai diplomat came to endorse a candidate. A Congolese delegation got into a scuffle with a self-proclaimed transition government of Congolese exiles who had sneaked in past security.
The meeting's 514-paragraph final communique was not issued until the midnight after it ended. By then, nearly everyone had left. "We made 300 copies," said Awie Marais, the chief spokesman. "There weren't 30 people left to pick them up."
But there were some serious moments.
Yasir Arafat came to reiterate his intention to declare an independent Palestinian state next May.
The Foreign Minister of the Sudan came early to outline his request that the summit demand a United Nations inspection of the factory destroyed by American cruise missiles to determine whether it produced chemical weapons or pharmaceuticals.
The Foreign Minister, Mustafa O. Ismail, had wanted to show slides of the destruction, but the news conference room had been adorned with potted palms and ficuses, blocking its screens. As Mr. Ismail tried to leave, he was so mobbed by journalists desperate for quotes that he stepped off the dais into the scenery, crushing a pot of chrysanthemums.
For the first time in the nonaligned movement's history, an American team was present to keep an eye on charges like the Sudan's. They were granted "guest" status, one rung down from "observer."
Several diplomats speaking on condition of anonymity said the Americans lobbied in the halls to temper the communique on some issues, such as preventing Iraq from inserting language saying it had fully complied with United Nations weapons inspectors, and asking that Libya give up the Lockerbie suspects.
The Americans also took part in a delicate debate troubling many delegates. The nonaligned movement has long opposed nuclear weaponry, and now two of its leaders, Pakistan and India, have set off bombs. Diplomats said the two wanted language creating a "second tier" of nuclear states, separate from the long-villified bomb-owners, the United States, Russia, France, Britain and China. Other states did not want to condemn India and Pakistan, but wanted to urge them not to "weaponize."
In the final document, many hairs were split.
India and Pakistan were not mentioned. Conferees "noted the complexities arising from nuclear tests in South Asia, which underlined the need to work even harder to achieve their disarmament objectives."
The United States attack on the factory in Sudan was condemned as "unilateral and unwarranted," but no mention was made of inspections, and no judgment made about what was in the plant.
The United States and Britain were urged to keep negotiating with Libya over trial details. The two, in conceding to a trial in the Netherlands, had refused to discuss other concessions.
The no-flight zones over Iraq, enforced by the United States and its allies, were "deplored" and member states were urged to help lift the sanctions, but Iraq was not judged to have earned an end to the sanctions by complying with weapons inspectors.
As always, the summit endorsed clauses championing the Palestinians over Israel and Cuba over the United States.
The summit meeting did slip off the course its South African hosts wanted to steer it on. They wanted a new focus on money, particularly the widening of the gap between rich and poor, the domination of small debtor nations by the the International Monetary Fund and the vulnerability of small countries to raids on their currencies by speculators. The final document mentioned such issues, but did not shift the focus away from politics to economics.
And the most sought-after character at the meeting was a definitely a political figure. President Laurent Kabila of Congo arrived unexpectedly on Wednesday, avoiding being welcomed by Mr. Mandela. He was reported to have demanded the first speaking slot of the 86 reserved for national leaders. Denied it, he borrowed the early slot of an ally, Namibia's President, and spoke about his military problems.
His aides said he would then hold a news conference "somewhere on the street" because the Congolese-exile incident proved that the pressroom was unsafe. Later, word slipped out that he would talk at a nearby Hilton Hotel. He kept reporters waiting for five hours, then tried to slip past them to an elevator. Cornered, he promised elections in six months and left. He departed on a plane at 4 A.M., skipping a breakfast meeting about the war and leaving the summit meeting to muddle on without him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); RWANDA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BURUNDI (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SUDAN (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (58%); 

COMPANY: NONALIGNED MOVEMENT (91%); NONALIGNED MOVEMENT (91%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NONALIGNED MOVEMENT (91%); NONALIGNED MOVEMENT (91%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DURBAN (SOUTH AFRICA); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); RWANDA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BURUNDI (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SUDAN (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); COLD WAR (75%); BOMBINGS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



225 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Phnom Penh Journal;
High-Minded Machiavelli, or Cambodia's Spoiler

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: PHNOM PENH, Cambodia, Sept. 5

 BODY:
"Read this," said Sam Rainsy, leaving the room to dress for a political rally. "A different point of view."
It was a pro-Government newspaper with a front-page editorial that declared: "Mr. Sam Rainsy, the Machiavellian, maverick, opportunistic, selfish, foolish and irresponsible politician, a self-proclaimed opposition leader, must be prosecuted to the full extent of the law." 
 It is a famliar characterization here in a country where Mr. Sam Rainsy, 49, seems intent on keeping the political pot boiling until he can achieve his goals. Not only the Government but also many diplomats see him as a power-hungry spoiler too convinced of his own righteousness to even consider a compromise with his rivals.
Of course, Mr. Sam Rainsy's own view and that of many Cambodians is different. He sees himself, as do many supporters here and abroad, as a democratic idealist who has "lost any illusion about working with rotten people in a rotten system."
He is ready to paralyze the Parliament, to bring down the Government, to force this exhausted and poverty-stricken country into a new round of elections and confrontations if that is what it takes to achieve what he calls a revolution.
"I dream of a modern Cambodia," he said, returning from his bedroom in a clean white shirt. "I have lived more than half my life in Europe and I have spent many months in the United States and I can see the difference between a modern society and a backward society.
"To me, a modern Cambodia means, first, the rule of law. It sounds elementary, but it is crucial. Without that, we just have a feudalistic system of warlords, of people who have guns and money and who are just above the law."
He was clearly referring to the power structure of Hun Sen, who has led the country -- first as a Communist, then as a Prime Minister, then as the leader of a coup -- for most of the last two decades.
"They pretend we have a market economy but I call it a jungle economy," Mr. Sam Rainsy said. "The difference is, there is no legal framework. This is a real revolution because they are powerfully entrenched interests."
Six weeks after a parliamentary election in which his party, the Sam Rainsy Party, finished a distant third, Mr. Sam Rainsy has brought the country to a standstill with a vigorous campaign of protests and rallies and political maneuvers that threaten to block the formation of a new government.
In Cambodian terms, his campaign is already something of a revolution: he is not using guns. Instead, in a style he has perfected over the last few years, some diplomats say he is taunting Mr. Hun Sen's Government to use its guns against him, to discredit itself and make martyrs of him and his followers.
On March 30, 1997, unknown assailants threw four grenades at a rally he was leading in a park, killing 16 people and wounding more than 100. Mr. Sam Rainsy blamed Mr. Hun Sen for the attack; Mr. Hun Sen said Mr. Sam Rainsy himself was behind it.
Now, for the last two weeks, he has led thousands of people in a rambunctious sit-in at the same park, which he has called Democracy Square. Through determination, intelligence, political astuteness and physical courage -- and with the partnership of his wife, Saumura -- Mr. Sam Rainsy has become a powerful political force.
Speaking of him and his wife, who was educated in France, one Western analyst with long experience here said, "They are people who have a zeal and who see themselves as historical figures in a struggle for the future of Cambodia."
Educated in France and Britain, eloquent in three languages, Mr. Sam Rainsy inspires strong feelings of both adulation and mistrust.
He has unsettled many foreigners with the gutter language of his attacks on Mr. Hun Sen and with his diatribes against the Vietnamese minority. A wave of violence has taken the lives of at least five ethnic Vietnamese in the last few days.
Largely because of his efforts, the parliamentary election held on July 26 has produced only political turmoil. In a vote Mr. Sam Rainsy disputes, the election was won by Mr. Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party, which took 64 of the 122 seats.
In second place, with 43 seats, was the royalist party of Norodom Ranariddh, who was ousted by Mr. Hun Sen in a coup a year earlier from the co-premiership the two men shared. The party of Mr. Sam Rainsy, who had in turn been ousted from the royalist party by Prince Ranariddh in 1995, won 15 seats.
None of the three parties won the two-thirds needed to form a government. Mr. Sam Rainsy has persuaded the Prince to join him in his protests and in his refusal to form the needed coalition with Mr. Hun Sen.
It is not clear that the Prince is as convinced as Mr. Sam Rainsy of this position. But analysts say Mr. Sam Rainsy may have maneuvered him so deeply into his protests that it will be difficult for the Prince to do an about-face and accept pomp and financial rewards of the coalition government Mr. Hun Sen is offering.
Mr. Sam Rainsy may or may not be sincere in the democratic ideals he espouses. But he shares with his two rivals a frank and deep-seated mutual animosity that is more than enough to sustain his campaign against them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sam Rainsy, besieged by supporters in Phnom Penh last week. He lost the election to the Cambodian People's Party of Hun Sen, but together with the royalists, the other losers, he continues to lead demonstrations. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA; CAMBODIA (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); COUPS (76%); POOR POPULATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; SAM RAINSY; NORODOM RANARIDDH (PRINCE); HUN SEN (PRIME MIN) HUN SEN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



226 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Asian Markets Surge, Pushed by Japan

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Monday, Sept. 7

 BODY:
Asian markets surged today, with a rise in Japanese shares and the yen helping spark a 7 percent leap in Hong Kong stocks and a 2 percent rise in Australia.
Tokyo, Seoul and Singapore exchanges rose more than 2 percent, while Malaysian shares, whipped about recently by new currency controls and political turmoil, rocketed more than 26 percent. 
 Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index shot up 486.98 points, or 6.50 percent, to 7,975.45 on a firmer yen and lower interest rates after government steps to strengthen its currency-board monetary system. By midday it had surged to 8045.13, up 7.43 percent.
Tokyo stocks ended a volatile morning session sharply higher on technical factors, but the market was still jittery over global financial woes and stalled financial stabilization bills, traders said.
Some said a remark on Friday by the United States Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, that Japan must use public funds to help banks raised hopes for a swift decision by Japan on a fund injection for the banks, helping buying-backs in bank shares.
At midday, the benchmark Nikkei average was up 387.76 points or 2.76 percent at 14,430.67. Early losses on the Nikkei were wiped out by active buying in the futures, aiming to take short-term gains.
The dollar fell more than two yen from an early high to trade at 132.55 yen by mid-morning in Tokyo, traders said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (94%); JAPAN (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); MALAYSIA (93%); SINGAPORE (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN; HONG KONG; AUSTRALIA; SOUTH KOREA; SINGAPORE; MALAYSIA; HONG KONG (94%); JAPAN (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); MALAYSIA (93%); SINGAPORE (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); US DOLLAR (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BONDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



227 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: An Election Season Shadowed By Crises at Home and Abroad

BYLINE: By Richard L. Berke

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 6

 BODY:
As they take to the trail this Labor Day for the traditional opening of the fall campaigns, Republican and Democratic candidates say the Lewinsky matter, a jittery stock market and tumult abroad have thrust them into the most unsettled, and unpredictable, election season in years.
The uncertainty has already altered the calculations of Republicans, who say they have the most to gain, particularly from President Clinton's difficulties. 
 Newly emboldened, Republican officials have revised their earlier predictions of modest gains and now say the party could capture more than a dozen additional seats in the House and, perhaps, even pick up five seats in the Senate. That would hand Republicans the magic 60 votes needed to cut off a filibuster when Democrats try to block a vote.
By contrast, Democrats find themselves on the defensive, and party leaders are lowering their expectations; most have stopped brazenly forecasting that they will retake the House.
"I feel so much better than a couple months ago," said Brent Siegrist, the Republican leader of the Iowa House. "I do think Clinton's troubles help us."
Although Republicans now have the slimmest House majority held by any party in the last half century, few Democratic leaders are upbeat about their party's prospects for retaking the House, and some party candidates are distancing themselves from Mr. Clinton.
"I'm running my own race -- and I don't plan on running any events with him," Ken Lucas, a Democrat who is locked in a tight House race in Kentucky, said of the President. The latest Democrat to spurn Mr. Clinton is Gov. Parris N. Glendening of Maryland, who said he "will not pursue the attendance of the President" as planned for a fund-raising event next month.
Here in Boston, at the annual meeting of the American Political Science Association, the corridor chatter among academics was not about political theory but fresh gossip about the Lewinsky investigation and how it would play out on Election Day. Perhaps a telling piece of evidence was that among the hundreds of academic papers presented, the association ran out of copies for one in particular demand: "Compassion, Political Trust and Public Opinion."
Representative Jim McDermott, a Democrat from Seattle, said the "formless uncertainty" in the electorate may be welcome news for Republicans trying to maintain their 11-seat majority in the House. He suggested that voters may want to keep Republican control of Congress as a check on the turbulence in the White House.
"In many ways, what people want is stability in our Government, which I think bodes well for incumbents," Mr. McDermott said. "I wish they wanted to throw out the Republican majority and bring in Democrats, but I think the uncertainty fosters the stability."
Voter participation in the statewide primaries this year has been the lowest on record, which suggests that turnout in November could be the lowest in history, according to a report by Curtis B. Gans, director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate. He and other experts said that could bode well for Republicans.
Their hope is that while Democrats will be uninterested, Republicans will be energized by Mr. Clinton's troubles and will eagerly head to the polls to vote against his party.
"It doesn't look like '94, where we had a bump up out of anger," Mr. Gans said. "What you have at this point is disengagement but not profound anger -- except on the Republican right." If conservative voters are motivated by their anger at Mr. Clinton, he said, that would give Republicans an edge in close contests.
Yet for all the theories about depressed Democratic turnout and an excited Republican electorate, polls thus far have not shown any major upheaval in how people expect to vote or broad disaffection with the Democratic Party. Despite signs that Mr. Clinton's personal approval is eroding, his job approval rating remains impressive. And despite Democrats' complaints that the Lewinsky debacle is crowding out their efforts to talk about issues, there is no statistical evidence that Mr. Clinton is dragging down Democratic candidates.
In fact, much of the sense of a changed electoral landscape in both the Republican and Democratic parties is founded on anecdotal evidence. Two weeks ago, Stuart Rothenberg, an independent political analyst, predicted that the Democrats would pick up two or three seats in the House. Now, he says, the Republicans could capture 10 or 15 seats.
Asked to explain his change of heart, Mr. Rothenberg said: "I don't have micro or macro data that shows either a national move or a move in individual races. We're going on gut here. You don't discount gut. But you don't go too far."
Throughout most of this year, politicians in both parties, noting that voters seemed relatively content and disengaged from politics, had forecast a status-quo election, where incumbents would be safe and Republicans would cling to control Congress by roughly the existing margins.
But despite the buoyed spirits among Republicans, there are still two months before Election Day. Politicians around the country say they are bracing for a political hurricane with untold consequences: they know it will hit but they do not know when -- or with what force.
Even so, a big, substantial shift in the makeup of Congress would be a surprise because far fewer than 100 House seats are considered hotly competitive. There are fewer open seats than is traditional and many incumbents face particularly weak rivals this year. A surging economy through much of the year and unusually high approval ratings for Congress discouraged many challengers from running.
Several candidates said the biggest wild card will be the report by Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel, and it may be issued this month. This is the first time since Watergate in 1974 that a general election campaign has occurred amid a full-scale Presidential crisis. But by Labor Day of 1974, after Richard M. Nixon had resigned from the Presidency, it was already clear to most strategists that Republicans would take a huge hit that November. (Republicans lost 48 seats in the House and five in the Senate.) This year, it is not as clear what the reverberations could be for Democrats.
Candidates also said that the steep downturn -- and partial rebound -- of the stock market last week and the economic and political crisis in Russia starkly reminded them how outside forces could intrude on their carefully laid campaign strategies.
"These developments have changed what was a very placid election season to one that has a lot more uncertainty," said Chris Bayley, a Republican running for Senate from Washington State. "Six months ago everyone assumed that since the economy was good, incumbents would be favored and it would be harder for challengers." Citing the crisis in Asia, he said, "Everybody is much more nervous now."
William Carrick, a veteran Democratic strategist in Los Angeles, put it this way: "I've never seen anything like this -- it's a very, very strange season. We're all analytically groping for what is this election about: Is it a referendum on the President? It doesn't appear to be so. But it's clearly not a referendum on Congress. Then you add in this enormous reluctance by the American public to even get engaged in following the politics of any of this."
Although many Republican candidates said they were uncertain whether to make the Lewinsky matter an issue, several said they now planned to raise the broader topic of trust. The Lewinsky situation also seems to have brought a broader overlay of moral scrutiny to the campaign, and on Friday led to an admission by Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana Republican who is one of the President's most persistent critics. He acknowledged that he is the father of a child born out of wedlock.
"I think every one of us is going to have to run on integrity," said Fay Boozman, a Republican running for the Senate from Arkansas. "I think there is a strong sense of the lack of integrity of elected officials, and the breaking of the public trust by elected officials. Bill Clinton is the headliner of that because he is the President, but it crosses party lines."
Even some Democrats, spurred, perhaps, by the strong rebuke of Mr. Clinton last week by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, said Mr. Clinton's problems would force them to discuss issues like morality. "Here in this particular race, integrity and taking responsibility for your actions and honesty are big factors," said Mr. Lucas, the Democrat running in Kentucky. "And I think the recent events in Washington are highlighting that."
Yet some Democrats said they feared that all the talk of trust would drown out the discourse about their party's marquee issues like education, overhauling the health care system and preserving Social Security.
"It will distract from the ability of candidates to articulate the issues we think are important," said Jay Inslee, a Democrat seeking a House seat in Washington. "It's kind of like a wreck on the freeway. The traffic going the other way is watching the wreck instead of paying attention to where we're going. It's a distraction."
In fact, many candidates in both parties have felt somewhat neglected as the news media focus their energies less on electoral politics and more on scandal in Washington.
Even the high-profile contests like the race for governor in California and the Senate race in New York have drawn relatively little attention. Contributing to the dilemma for candidates is that, judging by the polls and by interviews with strategists, no single issue seems to be gripping voters.
"They ask about anything under the sun," said Representative Adam Smith, a Democrat from Washington. "But no real issue is grabbing folks."
David Osterberg, a Democrat who is taking on Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, is so frustrated by his failure to draw attention that he is trying a new stunt: paddling across the state in a canoe.
Tom Rath, a longtime Republican strategist in New Hampshire, predicted that rather than energize voters, the Lewinsky matter would make voters even less engaged.
"I just think people want this whole process to go away," he said. "There's a tiredness in the electorate. They don't have the stomach for a highly contested election season."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ken Lucas, a Kentucky Democratic candidate who has said he did not want to appear with President Clinton, campaigned in Florence, Ky., greeting Carl Agin as Mr. Agin's granddaughter, Brittany Dugan, looked on. (Mark Lyons for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 
Chart/Photo: "Races to Watch"
 
FOR U.S. SENATE
 
ILLINOIS
Carol Moseley-Braun (D) Incumbent
Peter Fitzgerald (R) State Senator
Ms. Moseley-Braun has tried to deflect her personal controversies by underscoring Mr. Fitzgerald's staunchly conservative record. But he is wealthy and has run a big advertising campaign.
 
NEVADA
Harry Reid (D) Incumbent
John Ensign(R) U.S. Representative
Mr. Reid's advantage as the incumbent may not be as valuable because of a huge influx of new voters into the state and because Mr. Ensign is grabbing some of the Senator's support from casino interests.
 
CALIFORNIA
Barbara Boxer (D) Incumbent
Matt Fong (R) State Treasurer
While Ms. Boxer is a prodigious fund-raiser, she finds herself in an unexpectedly tight race against Mr. Fong, a Republican whose moderate stands on most issues and ties to the Asian-American community could make him formidable.
 
NEW YORK
Alfonse M. D'Amato (R) Incumbent
Candidate to be determined by primary Sept. 15
National Democrats would love to oust Mr. D'Amato, and a hard-fought battle is expected from whoever wins the primary, Geraldine A. Ferraro, Representative Charles E. Schumer or Mark Green, the New York City public advocate.
 
NORTH CAROLINA
Lauch Faircloth (R) Incumbent
John Edwards (D)
Mr. Faircloth is considered one of the Senate's most vulnerable incumbents and he faces a tough fight from Mr. Edwards, a wealthy lawyer.
 
KENTUCKY
Wendell H. Ford (D) is retiring.
Scotty Baesler (D) U.S. Representative
Jim Bunning (R) U.S. Representative
This promises to be a bruising contest and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, has staked his reputation on electing Mr. Bunning from his home state.
 
SOUTH CAROLINA
Ernest F. Hollings (D) Incumbent
Bob Inglis (R) U.S. Representative
After five terms, Mr. Hollings is facing a vigorous challenge from a Republican in what has become a solid Republican state.
 
FOR GOVERNOR
 
ALABAMA
Fob James Jr. (R) Incumbent
Don Siegelman (D) Lieutenant Governor
Afer a bruising primary where he was painted as a candidate of the far right, Mr. James has to repair his image and is expected to portray Mr. Siegelman as too liberal for the state.
 
NEW MEXICO
Gary E. Johnson (R) Incumbent
Martin J. Chavez (D)
Democrats say this represents one of their best chances to knock off a Republican; Mr. Johnson is a relative newcomer to politics and Mr. Chavez is considered a dynamic moderate Democrat.
 
CALIFORNIA
Pete Wilson (R) is retiring.
Dan Lungren (R) Attorney General
Gray Davis (D) Lieutenant Governor
While neither candidate is known as a scintillating campaigner, this is the marquee race of them all because of the size and political importance of California.
 
ILLINOIS
Jim Edgar (R) is retiring.
Glenn Poshard (D) U.S. Representative
George Ryan (R) Secretary of State
Democrats are worried because Mr. Poshard is so conservative that he has alienated many in his party, and because Mr. Ryan is expected to far outspend him.
 
GEORGIA
Zell Miller (D) is retiring.
Roy Barnes (D) State Representative
Guy Millner (R)
Mr. Barnes is a conservative, anti-abortion Democrat and Mr. Millner is expected to make education a top issue and to far outspend the Democrats even though both candidates are wealthy.
 
Other important races where there is still a primary
 
HAWAII
Benjamin J. Cayetano (D) incumbent
Republican primary Sept. 19
 
MARYLAND
Parris N. Glendening (D) incumbent
Republican primary Sept. 15
 
RHODE ISLAND
Lincoln C. Almond (R) incumbent
Democratic primary Sept. 15
 
MASSACHUSETTS
Paul Cellucci (R) incumbent
Democratic primary Sept. 15
 
MINNESOTA
Arne Carlson (R) is retiring
Democratic primary Sept. 15 (candidates include Ted Mondale, Attorney General Hubert Humphrey 3d, Mike Freeman, Mark Dayton, Doug Johnson. Republican nominee is likely to be Mayor Norm Coleman of St. Paul. (pg. A10)
 
Chart number of U.S. Senate seats and U.S. Governorships, according to political party, that are not up for election, that are up for election, incumbent is running, and that are up for election, seat is open.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EVIDENCE (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); JIM BUNNING (79%); JIM MCDERMOTT (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); JOHN ENSIGN (78%); HARRY REID (73%); BARBARA BOXER (73%); DANIEL E LUNGREN (58%); BOB INGLIS (58%); NORM COLEMAN (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); MARK DAYTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1998



228 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Joy. Frustration. Motherhood.

BYLINE: By Leah Hager Cohen; Leah Hager Cohen is the author, most recently, of "Glass, Paper, Beans: Revelations on the Nature and Value of Ordinary Things."

DATELINE: BELMONT, Mass.

 BODY:
The thing that got to my sister was not being able to give either job -- work or parenting -- a hundred percent. This was before she had her fourth child, when she was still a wage earner.
It wasn't that she couldn't handle working the long hours at the office as well as at home, or making the twice-daily transition between roles. What she found intolerable was the feeling that she was constantly shortchanging both her work and her family. It was the parceling out of her energy, and the skimping compromises this forced, that eventually drove her to quit her job. 
 At the time, I was a little aghast. Pregnant with my first child, I was joyously eager to become a mother, yet I couldn't fathom abandoning my own work as a writer. Obviously lots of women don't have the economic luxury to give up their paying jobs, but lots of women also love their work and find the emotional cost of leaving too expensive. My own work: I thought of it that possessively, that absolutely, as some cherished object I might actually hold in cupped hands.
As a child, I spent a fair amount of time fantasizing about different jobs. I wanted to work on a fishing boat, in a pineapple canning plant, on a kibbutz, on Broadway; I wanted to be a piano tuner, a cop, a shoe shiner, a cabdriver, a lady-in-waiting to the queen.
Each occupation was a portal to another aspect of life, and it was somehow my impression that we were supposed to pass through as many of these as we could. At the time, it seemed almost farfetched that I wouldn't eventually work all of these jobs. How else would I learn what life was like? How else would I get to know the people in the world with me?
Slowly it dawned on me I would probably never tune pianos, or can pineapples, or wait on a queen. One by one, these possibilities were jettisoned as I made other choices. Later came motherhood, and with it the curtailing of a whole new set of experiences.
The wildness of that old dream seems ludicrous these days, from the confines of a kitchen filled with spilled cereal and sticky dishes and small children requiring sippy cups and clean diapers and visits up in my arms.
Mothers' work is in a way so circumscribed, our world so narrowed, so diminished. I still do "my own work," but, like my sister, I find it compromised. I do not read the paper. I no longer set out to cross borders, geographical or social. I have less of me to give over to wandering, to forging connections with people outside my daily sphere.
For most of my life, I equated work with journeying, with venturing outward in the world, extending oneself toward the unfamiliar. Now I find myself engaged in work that is by its nature tethering. Mothering entails focusing on that which is small and immediately before us. To the extent that it consumes energy that might otherwise have been spent engaging the world, it makes for a more restrictive, insular existence.
Years ago, at a folk art exhibit, I found myself transfixed before a wonderful quilt -- as I remember, it combined velvet with corduroy with calico, a bold and unapologetic assemblage of fabrics. Next to it, a card bore a homespun quote from the 90-year-old quilter: "I likes to work piecemeal, because something always calls me to get up and do something else."
Women's work has historically been a jumble, a patchwork, a piecemeal affair. Through the work of caring for children I am stretched and exposed, distracted and dazzled. These days I may sit down to write and a small hand will come pulling me down a path I've never seen before. I am learning to love the mishmash, boldly and unapologetically. We cannot help but keep journeying, witnessing, connecting. Life won't allow it, no matter our occupation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PARENTING (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); CHILDREN (72%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: COHEN, LEAH HAGER

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998



229 of 848 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 1998 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1998

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2147 words

HEADLINE: Take Me Back to the Ballgame!

BYLINE: ALISON ZIMBALIST


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students examine the role of sports in American society, analyzing both positive outcomes and its exclusive nature. Students then reflect on how the lessons that they learn in activities in which they participate as children may carry with them into their adult lives. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students examine the role of sports in American society, analyzing both positive outcomes and its exclusive nature. Students then reflect on how the lessons that they learn in activities in which they participate as children may carry with them into their adult lives.
Author(s):
Alison Zimbalist, The New York Times Learning Network
Suggested Time Allowance: 40 minutes
Objectives:
Students will: 
1. List positive aspects of participating in extracurricular activities. 
2. Read and discuss "Ex-Little Leaguers: The Boys of Summer Once Really Were Boys." 
3. Analyze the role of sports in American society. 
4. Examine the exclusive nature (in history and today) of sports on local and national levels. 
5. Write a narrative piece that discusses how a favorite activity enjoyed in youth will help shape more successful adults.
Resources / Materials:
pens/pencils 
paper 
classroom blackboard 
copies of "Ex-Little Leaguers: The Boys of Summer Once Really Were Boys"
Activities / Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/ DO-NOW: In the first five minutes of class, students list positive aspects of participating in sports or other extracurricular activities on a piece of paper. They then share their responses while the teacher writes them on the board. Next, ask students to list any negative aspects of participating in sports or other group extracurricular activities; again, the teacher writes them on the board. 
2. Read "Ex-Little Leaguers: The Boys of Summer Once Really Were Boys." Then, discuss answers to the following questions: 
a) On which players did the article focus--the Little League world champions from Toms River, New Jersey or major league players? Why were they the focus of the article? 
b) What were some of the major league players' memories of participating in Little League sports? 
c) What percentage of major league players were once Little Leaguers? How does the article relate the Toms River champs to the major leaguers in the article? 
3. Analyze the role of sports in American society. Why do we see sports stars as heroes? Why do we encourage our children to play sports? Why is there a seeming assumption that everyone loves sports, and how do we react to people who criticize them? How do we regard negative things in which sports heroes become involved (drugs, crimes, Mike Tyson charged for alleged rape, O.J. Simpson accused of murder)? Are we more willing to excuse bad behavior in sports stars than in "average" citizens? 
4. Examine ways in which sports can be exclusive. When baseball originated as a sport, what races of people could not participate? (non-whites) Who changed that? (Jackie Robinson) What about participation by girls and women in sports? What options did girls have when the major leaguers in the article participated in Little League? What options to girls have now? 
5. WRAP-UP/ HOMEWORK: The underlying meaning to the article is that participation in sports (or any other hobby) as a child can teach invaluable life lessons and change people's lives. At the top of a piece of paper, students write the activity that they most enjoy participating in now. Next, students list accomplishments that they have had so far in this activity and specific goals that they would like to reach. They then list all of the positive outcomes of participating in this activity (specific skills related to the activity, interpersonal/social skills developed, intrapersonal skills developed). Finally, students incorporate this list into a narrative piece of writing, discussing how this activity and these skills will be able to help them in their adult lives.
Further Questions for Discussion:
--Why, in our society, is sports such a beloved form of entertainment? 
--Why, in our society, do we view athletes as "heroes"? 
--Do we react differently when athletes commit crimes than we do when "average" people commit them? 
--How have sports historically been exclusive to certain groups of people? How have some of these exclusions changed? What exclusions still remain? 
--How can participation in sports benefit a young player? 
--How might participation in sports be detrimental to a young player? 
--What lessons can participating in sports teach a young player? 
--How can these lessons be transferred to experiences off of the playing field? 
(particularly in the worlds of academics, personal growth, and interpersonal 
relations)
Evaluation / Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on participation in class discussions and written narrative writing piece.
Vocabulary:
league, counterparts, nostalgically, unabashed, boisterous, discerning, veterans, camaraderie
Extension Activities:
1. Debate the role of money in professional sports. Why are some players "worth" more than others when they are a part of a team? Is this fair? Should there be a limit on how much a player can earn? Why do professional athletes make so much money, and what does this say about the role of sports in American society? (grades 6-12) 
2. Research Jackie Robinson's heroic fight to "break the color barrier" in professional baseball and how he subsequently influenced the world of sports. Locate newspaper articles about him, and discuss them with classmates. (grades 6-12) 
3. Investigate Title IX legislation (which mandates that federal monies allocated to schools must support women's and men's sports equally.) How does your school's athletic program meet or not meet the needs of girls? (grades 8-9, 10-12) 
4. Interview parents, grandparents, and other adults to find out about sports that they played when they were in school. What leagues existed, and how did a person join? What games were most popular? (6-12) 
5. Students can research the origins of a sport commonly played in the United States. Where did it come from? When did the sport originate? How was the sport originally played? What changes and advancements have been made in this sport since its very beginnings? (6-12)
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Math- Trace the statistics of one particular athlete in the course of his or her career thus far. Percentages and graphs can be calculated. Then, each student can write a brief biography of the athlete, along with why he or she is a role model to the student, and create a poster dedicated to the athlete which includes this player's calculated statistics. 
Science- A lesson or unit can be developed around the "physics" of sports. Using baseball as an example, how does the ball's speed, where it hits the bat, and how it is propelled by the bat affect where it lands? How do the curve and speed of a ball being thrown affect the ball's force on the glove of the player who catches it?
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8 
Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmark: Uses style and structure appropriate for specific audiences and purposes. 
Civics Standard 11- Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs, and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society. Benchmarks: Knows a variety of forms of diversity in American culture; Knows major conflicts in American society have arisen from diversity; Knows basic values and principles that Americans share 
United States History Standard 29- Understands the struggle for racial and gender equality and for the extension of civil liberties. Benchmarks: Understands individual and institutional influences on the civil right movement; Understands factors that shaped the women's right movement after World War II 
United States History Standard 31- Understands economic, social, and cultural developments in the contemporary United States. Benchmarks: Understands various influences on American culture; Understands how different groups attempted to achieve their goals 
Physical Education Standard 3- Understands the benefits and costs associated with participation in physical activity. Benchmarks: Understands long-term physiological benefits of regular participation in physical activity; Understands long-term psychological benefits of regular participation in physical activity 
Behavioral Studies Standard 1- Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity, and behavior. Benchmark: Understands that various factors affect decisions that individuals make 
Behavioral Studies Standard 2- Understands various meanings of social group, general implications of group membership, and different ways that groups function. Benchmarks: Understands that affiliation with a group can increase the power of members through pooled resources and concerted action; Understands that joining a group often has personal advantages; Understands that people sometimes react to all members of a group as though they were the same and perceive in their behavior only those qualities that fit preconceptions of the group 
Behavioral Studies Standard 3- Understands that interactions among learning, inheritance, and physical development affect human behavior. Benchmark: Understands that the level of skill a person can reach in any particular activity depends on a variety of factors 
Behavioral Studies Standard 4- Understands conflict, cooperation, and interdependence among individuals, groups, and institutions. Benchmark: Understands how various institutions influence people, events, and elements of culture and how people interact with different institutions 
Grades 9-12 
Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; Writes reflective compositions 
Civics Standard 11- Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs, and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society. Benchmarks: Knows different viewpoints regarding the role and value of diversity in American life; Knows examples of conflicts stemming from diversity, and understands how some conflicts have been managed and why some of them have not yet been successfully resolved 
United States History Standard 29- Understands the struggle for racial and gender equality and for the extension of civil liberties. Benchmarks: Understands conflicting perspectives on different issues addressed by the women's rights movement; Understands significant influences on the civil rights movement 
United States History Standard 31- Understands economic, social, and cultural developments in the contemporary United States. Benchmarks: Understands the influence of scial change and the entertainment industry in shaping views on art, gender, and culture; Understands major contemporary social issues and the groups involved 
Physical Education Standard 3- Understands the benefits and costs associated with participation in physical activity. Benchmarks: Understands factors that impact the ability to participate in physical activity; Understands how various factors affect physical activity preferences and participation; Understands the potentially dangerous consequences and outcomes of participation in physical activities 
Behavioral Studies Standard 1- Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity, and behavior. Benchmarks: Understands that cultural beliefs strongly influence the values and behavior of the people who grow up in the culture, often without their being fully aware of it, and that people have different responses to these influences; Understands that heredity, culture, and personal experience interact in shaping human behavior, and that the relative importance of these influences is not clear in most circumstances 
Behavioral Studies Standard 2- Understands various meanings of social group, general implications of group membership, and different ways that groups function. Benchmark: Understands that while a group may act, hold beliefs, and/or present itself as a cohesive whole, individual members may hold widely varying beliefs, so the behavior of a group may not be predictable from an understanding of each of its members 
Behavioral Studies Standard 3- Understands that interactions among learning, inheritance, and physical development affect human behavior. Benchmarks: Understands that the context in which something is learned may limit the contexts in which the learning can be used; Knows that human thinking involves the interaction of ideas, and ideas about ideas 
Behavioral Studies Standard 4- Understands conflict, cooperation, and interdependence among individuals, groups, and institutions. Benchmark: Understands how various institutions develop and change over time, and how they further both continuity and change in societies 

        
Ex-Little Leaguers: The Boys of Summer Once Really Were Boys

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); YOUTH SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); WRITERS (72%); MURDER (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%) Creative Writing; Sports

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012



230 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
KEFALIDIS, NIKOS

 BODY:
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. Of Manhattan. On September 2, 1998, aboard Swissair 111. Best friend and beloved husband for 18 years of Laurie. Dearest and devoted father of Melanie (17), Elias (14) and Marisa (8). Loving son of Kerasia and Symeon Kefalidis of Alexandroupolis, Greece. Cherished brother of Chrysanthos Kefalidis of Athens and Efthimia Melidis of Alexandroupolis. Caring uncle of four nephews. Nikos spent the first nine years of his life with his family in Alexandroupolis, Greece, his birthplace. He then attended Anavryta College, a boarding school near Athens, as a scholarship student. He later studied at the University of Athens, graduating with a degree in economics. In 1970, he immigrated to the United States and became a U.S. citizen several years later. As founder and President of KLM Construction, Inc., he developed residential and commercial real estate projects throughout New York City. In 1989, he was instrumental in founding Beta Steel Corp., a privately held steel mill in Portage, Indiana, of which he was Chairman of the Board of Directors. In addition to his business ventures, Nikos was active in numerous community, political and religious organizations. He was appointed a member of the Democratic National Committee in 1994. He served on the Archdiocesan Council of the Greek Orthodox Church in the Americas and as Vice President of the Board of Trustees of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocesan Cathedral of the Holy Trinity in New York City. A Memorial Service will be held at The Cathedral, 319 East 74th Street (between 1st and 2nd Avenues) on Tuesday, September 8, 1998 at 6 PM, with His Eminence, Archbishop Iakovos presiding. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in his memory either to The Greek Children's Fund at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, NY, NY 10021, or to The Dalton School Scholarship Fund, 108 East 89th Street, New York, New York 10128.
KEFALIDIS-Nikos/d. You had bestowed upon me your kindness and trust. To you, I always look as a mentor, role model and source of inspiration. In my heart, I will carry the flame of your soul for the rest of my life. Hesky Brahimy.
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. Laurie, Melanie, Elias, and Marisa, you were Nikos' joy of life. Nikos lived for you and lives in you. We are completely heartbroken for you and sharing your grief. We love you. Hesky and Sholeh Brahimy
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The directors and employees of Beta Steel Corp. of Portage, Indiana express their own deep sorrow while extending profound sympathy to the entire Kefalidis family on the untimely death of our founder, Chairman of the Board of Directors and indomitable helmsman. Through times both good and bad, his vision, wisdom and compassion provided us with the courage to do the right thing, as well as the strength to endure and overcome misfortune. He stood by all of us, supporting and encouraging us, more than just as an employer, but as a genuine friend. His door would always open, in response to our knock for every single need, whether personal or professional. We mourn the loss of an exceptional leader, a dedicated executive, a loyal friend and-in every sense of the definition-a "good man."
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The Dean, Board of Trustees and community of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocesan and Cathedral of the Holy Trinity mourn the tragic loss of our beloved friend, colleague, Trustee & Vice President, Nikos Kefalidis. His generosity of spirit, warm smile & commitment to his church and the community will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Laurie, children, Melanie, Elias and Marisa, his parents, brother, sister and nephews. A memorial service will be held Tuesday, at Holy Trinity Cathedral, 319 East 74th Street, at 6 PM. Presiding will be his Eminence Archbishop Iakovos. "May his memory be eternal." Rev. Dr. Robert Stephanopoulos, Dean
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The partners, associates and staff of Goldberg Weprin & Ustin LLP, express their profound sadness at the tragic and untimely passing of our friend Nikos Kefalidis. We are privileged to have worked with this honorable, talented and compassionate man, often throughout the nights, on dynamic and creative projects. We will remember Nikos for embracing life, for his unending energy and for his fierce dedication to his family and to his community. We will miss him. We extend our heartfelt and deepest sympathy to his wife Laurie and their children Melanie, Elias and Marisa.
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The tragic passing of our dear friend, Nikos Kefalidis, has left us numb and deeply saddened. He touched us all with his dedication to humanitarian and spiritual values and especially his devotion to his beloved family. Nikos will be truly missed. Our hearts and prayers go out to his wife, Laurie, and to his children, Melanie, Elias and Marisa. John and Eva Fondrier Athens, Greece
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. We lost our dearest friend whom we trusted and loved as a brother. His loyalty, love and generosity were without measure. Our lives have forever been enriched by his kindness and humanity. His spirit will remain in our hearts. Laurie, Melanie, Elias and Marisa, we love you. Joanna and Bob
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Nikos. He was our client but foremost, our friend and mentor. We will always remember his warmth, creative energy, and love for and pride in his family. We will miss you. Carole Slater and Jerry Hirschen
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The employees of KLM Construction, Inc., mourn the untimely death aboard Swissair 111 of our founder, President, example and true friend. To the Kefalidis family, our wish for peace and love.
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. You invited us into your life to share your love, joy, good counsel and extraordinary family. Good-bye, dear friend; you will be in our hearts, thoughts and prayers forever. Grant and Mimi Ruthizer
KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The example of your magnanimous heart and generous spirit will forever stay as a source of strength and inspiration in our lives. Apostolos and Areti Fliakos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: AKH (NYSE) (56%); AF (PAR) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ATHENS, GREECE (91%); 

COMPANY: SWISSAIR AG (58%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (91%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ATHENS, GREECE (91%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); RELIGION (87%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CITIZENSHIP (56%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (54%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (53%); CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: KEFALIDIS, NIKOS NIKOS KEFALIDIS (98%); EVA FONDRIER ATHENS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



231 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Bankruptcy The Asian Way;
No Sinking, No Swimming, Just Floating Face Down

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: SAPPORO, Japan

 BODY:
No business failure in Japan has been more traumatic than that of Hokkaido Takushoku Bank, one of the nation's biggest financial institutions. Its collapse last year sent the entire financial system into a tailspin and set off alarm bells that are still ringing in markets worldwide.
But now, take a walk inside the marble-pillared, wood-paneled halls of the bank's headquarters here on the northern island of Hokkaido. On a recent morning, more than 120 customers bustled about, making deposits and withdrawals. 
 It is not that the bank rose like a phoenix from the ashes. It just never burned up. After announcing that the bank had failed, the Government plugged it into a life-support system, and nothing really changed. It will be acquired soon by another institution, but many of its money-losing operations could continue indefinitely under another name.
Something similar is happening throughout Asia: corporations are "failing" in record numbers, but many keep on going anyway. As a result, the feeble are not eliminated, the fat is not trimmed, and the region's long-term prospects suffer.
A common refrain among Westerners is that there should be more out-and-out business failure in Asia. "Capitalism without bankruptcy is like Christianity without hell" is a line heard regularly.
But governments and legal systems routinely protect tycoons from their own incompetence, setting the stage not for a Darwinian struggle but for survival of the flimsiest.
"Just about every country has problems of this kind" in Asia, said Rajeev Malik, regional economist at Jardine Fleming International Securities Ltd. in Singapore.
Not that it is totally sink or swim in the United States; the Government did help rescue the Chrysler Corporation in 1979. And when an American bank fails, regulators try to broker a rapid transfer of ownership so that the old bank may close its doors on a Friday and reopen on Monday with a new name, and the customers barely perceive a change.
While under bankruptcy protection, American companies can dismiss workers fairly easily and radically reshape themselves. They might reappear stronger and more efficient, or they might be broken up and sold. But in Asia, big companies often hang on until they simply expire in a cloud of debt, rather than liquidate themselves or file for bankruptcy protection to restructure. In most countries here, the legal framework for bankruptcy is vague and loosely formed, management is given little protection against creditors, and there is rarely any thoroughgoing change. In countries that have known little but expansion for four decades, the idea of layoffs or dragging dirty linen through the courts makes banks and companies highly uncomfortable about bankruptcy.
"It's a real challenge," said Oh Soo Geun, a law professor at Inha University in South Korea. Insolvent conglomerates, particularly in South Korea, he said, "are really too big to kill."
So while large companies in Asia may become insolvent, or cannot keep operating without help, they tend not to file for bankruptcy. Indeed, the executives of such companies may not know how badly off they are, and many simply choose to pretend that little has changed.
Governments, fearful of economic chaos, frequently approve. So failed companies hang on in corporate limbo, neither collapsing nor expanding, and relying on government handouts and good luck.
To be sure, Asia has seen bankruptcies for years, with the number soaring in the last year. But formal bankruptcies have mostly been at small and medium-sized companies, while corporate giants generally manage to hang on.
Governments are understandably loath to shut down insolvent or cash-squeezed banks, for fear of provoking chaos in the financial system. Washington stepped in when the Continental Illinois Bank and Trust Company failed in 1984.
But economists cite several reasons failed companies should, in general, be formally put to rest.
First, the disappearance of bad companies takes overcapacity out of the system and improves the prospects of better-managed companies.
Second, without having to face a day of reckoning, companies and financial institutions might take foolish risks. If they bet right, they know, they will prosper; if they bet wrong, they will still muddle through.
Third, in a market economy, bankruptcy is the consequence of mismanagement. Without companies and banks going out of business, no valid threat exists to encourage prudent practices.
Still, this logic might not convince workers at failing companies in Asia, particularly these days, when there are no other jobs to be had and no safety net available. So in Japan, since the failure of Hokkaido Takushoku, the Government has suggested on several occasions that no more big banks will be allowed to fail.
In South Korea, the Government not only declared a moratorium on large-scale bankruptcies but also basically forced banks to lend good money after bad to save some feeble conglomerates.
So workers are as busy as ever at Kia Motors, which officially failed in the fall, but was not put into bankruptcy. Earlier this year, Kia introduced two new cars, including a van, called the Carnival, which has become a national hit. It certainly did not hurt sales that the company appealed to the patriotic spirit of consumers in its advertising.
The company, with assets worth more than $6 billion, keeps making cars with support from its main banks and the Government. Kia is unusual in that it still has value, although an effort to auction the company failed after the four bidders did not satisfy the Government's conditions for the sale.
Korea First Bank and Seoul Bank, both teetering, have been judged too big to fail or to file for bankruptcy, so they, too, are being supported by the Government and put up for auction.
One big problem in Asia is that bankruptcy rules are so harsh -- far harsher than in the United States -- that companies do anything to avoid the process. In Japan and Korea, when a corporation files for bankruptcy, the rules require that management be dismissed, the court appoints a trustee management and there is no automatic protection from creditors, so entrenched managements have little interest in taking this route.
In the United States, since managers are allowed to stay, weak companies often turn to bankruptcy to avoid creditors and regroup.
Southeast Asia is also facing challenges. While failed companies may go out of business and dismiss employees, there is no smooth procedure to protect creditors and iron out their claims or to parcel out a bankrupt concern's remaining assets. All this aggravates the bad-debt mess at the banks.
In Indonesia and Thailand, banks have not disclosed the full extent of their bad debts, making it hard to assess the risk of their insolvency. Thailand, for instance, though it shut down most of the country's rickety finance companies, nationalized four commercial banks that were technically insolvent. Still, it is trying to rejigger its bankruptcy rules.
"Bankruptcy law is a big issue," said Peter Sikora, an analyst at Standard & Poor's in Melbourne, Australia.
One sticky issue is that in the West it is still generally accepted that the rights of creditors and shareholders should prevail. There is no such view in much of Asia.
Take Sanyo Securities, which in November filed for reorganization, a last attempt to save the company and avoid bankruptcy. Shareholders will be huge losers, but the court-appointed trustee kept workers on the payroll and tried -- unsuccessfully -- to find a buyer so that the company could avoid liquidation.
So shareholders were watching as the company's brand name was offered free, in hopes that a buyer would retain employees. As was hoped, many workers found new jobs, so the number remaining has fallen to 900 from 2,300.
 Sanyo said on Aug. 31 that in September it would keep only 200 workers to help liquidate the company.
One reason the Government arranged for North Pacific Bank to take over Hokkaido Takushoku Bank, often called Takugin, instead of letting it go out of business, was to preserve the jobs of its 5,700 employees. The case offers insight into how failures are likely to be handled in the future.
"We are taking over most of Takugin's employees," said Masanao Takei, president of North Pacific Bank. "There will be no job problem."
Takugin failed because of a liquidity squeeze and because it simply lost credibility in the interbank market, the lifeblood of the financial system. While it never filed for bankruptcy -- the Finance Ministry issued a one-page order to improve business -- the failure provoked the collapse of some of Hokkaido's biggest companies and helped sink the entire island's economy.
So the Government tried to save the pieces. On a breezy Saturday last fall, Mr. Takei got an urgent call from the Finance Ministry. Standing in the hall of The Hokkaido Daily newspaper, where he was attending a seminar, Mr. Takei was asked for the first time if his tiny bank would take over this city's largest, but sickest, private institution, with 5,700 employees. And the official on the line stressed that he would like an answer as soon as possible.
Mr. Takei left the newspaper building, rushed to his office and met with two aides for nearly five hours to thrash out the risks and opportunities and to formulate counterproposals and demands. He could only guess at how bad the bank's problems were. (The Finance Ministry "wouldn't tell us," he said, adding, "I don't think they would tell us such matters until we answered yes." )
At about 7 o'clock that evening, Mr. Takei called in his decision: Yes, but he would not take the bad loans. Two days later, the Finance Ministry announced that Hokkaido Takushoku had failed, and the banking system descended into a shaky meltdown for a few months.
"We made the decision to avoid chaos and confusion in the local economy," Mr. Takei said. "What we are doing now is a test case for all of Japan."
Indeed, it has been. The tiny North Pacific, with only $15 billion in assets, will be swallowing Takugin, the nation's 20th-largest bank, with 10 trillion yen ($76 billion) in assets.
Paradoxically, the announcement that Takugin had failed suddenly made it more reliable. Now customers are at least sure that a healthy institution is taking it over and that its deposits are guaranteed, while they have no such assurances about banks that have not failed.
The bank is still the local government's paying agent, and many depositors, like Kazuko Horii, are rallying behind it. "My ordinary account here is just like my purse," said Mrs. Horii, 61, who was at the bank with a friend, Sachiko Yoneta. "Other banks are facing similar dangers, and the Japanese Government policy is that North Pacific Bank will take over this bank. So, if you compare the two situations, I think this bank is better."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Board members, left, bowed at a news conference last year announcing that the Hokkaido Takushoko Bank was going out of business. Above, a customer walks into the bank's headquarters, still open in Sapporo. (Stuart Isett for The New York Times); Chang Jin Wook, president of the Chang An Global Company, stands behind workers. The Korean company, based in Pyongtak, continues to do business. (Lee Young Ho for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Survival of the Flimsiest"
Amid the Asian economic crisis, an increasing number of compnies, with larger liabilities, are "failing." While small businesses are frequently shut down, many money-losing big companies are allowed to continue operating indefinately, prolonging the drain on the economy. Graph tracks number of business failures in South Korea and in Japan from 1988 through 1997. It also tracks the liabilities of failed businesses in Japan over the same period. (Sources: Teikoku Databank America; Korea Federation of Small Businesses) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (65%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: JARDINE FLEMING INTERNATIONAL SECURITIES LTD (66%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (65%); HOKKAIDO TAKUSHOKU BANK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (87%); BANK FAILURES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TRENDS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); DISMISSALS (61%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); RELIGION (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



232 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Tourism Thrives, but Portfolio Jitters Could Quiet the Boom

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
The summer travel season ended yesterday with expectations that it had set another record and with forecasts of record tourism again this fall.
The nonprofit Travel Industry Association of America had estimated that Americans would take 251 million trips this summer, 3 percent more than last year, and it has predicted a record 196 million travelers this fall, a 5 percent increase over last fall. 
 But while the association's forecasts have generally been close, since they take travel intentions as their measure of the likelihood of travel, those intentions are unusually iffy now, given the unpredictability of the economy, the unreliability of the weather and the fickleness of would-be travelers.
So projections for fall travel may be shaken by the same uncertainty that bedeviled this summer's travel plans. Who, for example, could have foreseen the Northwest Airlines strike, which has affected about 150,000 passengers a day, including many would-be tourists, since it began two weeks ago? Or who could have predicted the recent stock market slide?
The Wall Street selloff could play a big role in fall travel. Tourism in the autumn depends heavily on retirees and other older people who prefer to travel then, when there are fewer crowds and lower prices than in the summer, but who also pay particularly close attention to swings in the market.
While the Travel Industry Association has found a steady increase over four years in the number of people who say they intend to take children with them on vacation in the fall (40 percent this year), it has also found that travelers planning to take the longest trips this fall will be ages 65 or older (15 nights average) and retired (14 nights).
While 41 percent of respondents to the poll said they expected to spend less than $500 each on fall pleasure trips, people on their longest trips of the season planned to spend an average of $871. But those averages appear likely to dwindle if travelers' stock portfolios continue to decline.
Meantime, many cities and states had either a record or a robust summer season, the result of a strong economy, low gasoline prices and generally favorable weather.
Cape Cod, for example, had a "great summer," according to the Falmouth Chamber of Commerce, helped by an influx of European visitors. The $51 million in July room rental revenues in Ocean City, Md., topped last year's July revenues by almost 10 percent and exceeded the previous July record of $48 million, set in 1995. Unseasonably warm weather beginning in April is expected to lead Michigan to report a record number of summer visitors, while similar good weather helped fill Minnesota's hotels, resorts and campgrounds, and, tourism officials say, is likely to continue well into the fall. Visitors to Connecticut this summer helped that state take in $2.3 million more in hotel taxes than it collected last summer.
The Carolinas also attracted plenty of tourists this summer, at least until Hurricane Bonnie forced the evacuation of visitors along with residents late last month. An estimated 120,000 of the 200,000 people ordered to leave the coastal areas of Horry and Georgetown counties in South Carolina were tourists, according to Governor David Beasley. North Carolina officials estimated that the hurricane inflicted more than $1 billion in damage along the coast and cost the state millions more in lost tourism revenue.
Although Hurricane Earl pounded Florida's Gulf Coast last week, doing substantial damage, it departed before the crucial Labor Day weekend.
Texas tourism, second in size only to that of California, had to cope with sweltering heat in the Dallas area last month as well as forest fires in Mexico earlier this summer that created smog conditions and led to a statewide health alert.
Like the smoke from Mexico's fires, the effects of Asia's economic crisis were felt inside United States borders. Hardest hit was Hawaii, which managed to attract 26,670 more visitors from the United States mainland during June and July than it did in those months last year, but lost 51,540 visitors from Asia (mostly Japan) over the same months of comparison. August figures are not expected to show any improvement.
California also felt the effects of the Asian downturn, as did even Las Vegas, Nev. -- although after it doubled its advertising budget for the summer, to $5 million, the number of visitors in May rose 1.3 percent over those last May, while June's visitor figures rose 1.1 percent over those of the previous June. Preliminary figures for July, which have not yet been compiled, indicate a further gain over 1997, which itself saw a record 30.5 million visitors.
"Those were pretty modest increases," acknowledged Rob Powers, public relations director for the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, "but they marked a turnaround from the first quarter of this year, when visitation was down a couple of percentage points." His tone made it clear that in a city with 106,000 hotel beds to fill each night, soon to rise to 126,000, even modest increases are welcome. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSN OF AMERICA DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSN OF AMERICA TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); AIRLINES (73%); RESORTS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



233 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan's Words Taken For Golden

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7

 BODY:
With markets tumbling and economies crumbling at an alarming pace, investors and governments around the world were looking for a lifeline from Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, when he spoke in California on Friday night, and Mr. Greenspan gave it to them.
His suggestion that the Fed might have to consider cutting interest rates if the global financial crisis continued to worsen -- as vague and conditional as his statement was -- was seized on by investors in Asia, Europe and Latin America today as a possible sign that Mr. Greenspan was preparing to ride to the rescue. 
 Although other reasons contributed to a rally by stocks overseas, Mr. Greenspan's remarks were considered an underlying cause.
In Japan, the stock market was up 5.3 percent. In Hong Kong, the rise was 7.9 percent. London stocks jumped 3.5 percent, and in Latin America, where markets last week were almost in free fall, stocks posted big gains in all the major markets that were open, including Mexico's and Argentina's.
The buying could well continue on Tuesday when Wall Street returns to work after the three-day holiday weekend. Any rate cut by the Fed, after all, would be protection against recession and a downturn in corporate profits at home, and it would make stocks a bit more attractive relative to bonds.
But it is an open question whether Mr. Greenspan can halt or even slow the spread of the crisis. With the domestic economy still growing at a robust pace, there is no guarantee that the Fed will reduce rates anytime soon. And even if the Fed did ease monetary policy in the United States, that would not by itself solve the problems underlying the global crisis, especially the lack of political will in many countries to take the tough economic and financial steps necessary to restore confidence.
Mr. Greenspan may be the world's most influential economic policy maker, but even he does not have the tools to solve single-handedly a crisis that has spread from Thailand throughout Asia, into Russia and in recent weeks into Latin America.
Indeed, just after speaking at the University of California at Berkeley on Friday night, Mr. Greenspan joined Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin in trying over dinner in San Francisco -- with no apparent success -- to impress upon Japan's new Finance Minister, Kiichi Miyazawa, the need for Japan to take quick, bold action to strengthen its banking system and reawaken its economy.
Yet markets around the world seemed to shrug that off, at least for today. Japan's willingness to get its powerful economic machine running again, however, is likely to prove far more important in determining the course of Asia and the prospects for global recession or recovery than any change in policy by the Fed.
"I don't know why the markets' enthusiasm for the possibility of a Fed easing would outweigh despair about the lack of immediate urgency among Japanese policy makers," said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Nationsbanc Montgomery Securities.
In the same way, the markets gave short shrift to the continuing political turmoil in Russia, where the lower house of Parliament today again rejected President Boris N. Yeltsin's choice for prime minister. Russia is not a global economic force, and many of its problems are all its own, but more politicians in many countries share, in varying degrees, its unwillingness to toe the line dictated by the impersonal and unaccountable forces of market-based capitalism.
Even where governments have taken their medicine, as in Thailand or to a lesser extent South Korea, the process of rebuilding banking systems and inefficient, uncompetitive industries will take years.
"The Fed can't do anything for Russia," Mr. Levy said. "It can't do anything for Japan. It can soothe the markets, but it can't address the underlying problems."
It is not that a Fed easing of interest rates would not have positive ramifications for economies struggling to keep the crisis from swamping them. Reducing rates in the United States would help nudge investors to think about sending their money elsewhere in search of higher returns, perhaps helping to reverse the flood of money from abroad that has swept into the United States in search of a safe haven.
A rate reduction by the Fed could also help persuade the European central banks to join in with rate cuts of their own, helping bring down the interest rate structure worldwide. Lower rates around the globe would take some of the strain off the growing number of governments that are fighting to roll over public debt, help banks and other financial institutions and stimulate economies that have stalled or slipped into recession.
"I would not underestimate the influence that Greenspan and the Fed can have," said C. Fred Bergsten, the director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
Mr. Bergsten said Mr. Greenspan could also assure the world that the crisis was not unfolding in a total policy and political vacuum, with governments seen as weak and international institutions like the International Monetary Fund running out of money and under fire as ineffective.
"A rate cut by the Fed could be fairly sizable," Mr. Bergsten said. "It might be magnified by concerted action from Europe. And it signals that somebody is in charge and providing leadership, which has been a sorely missed variable. It may be that leadership has to come from the central banks."
Still, before cutting short-term interest rates by any significant amount in the United States -- the Federal funds target rate has been 5.5 percent for nearly a year and a half -- members of the Fed would have to agree that the domestic economy is threatened by the global crisis so much so that inflation is no longer a threat.
Mr. Greenspan appeared to ally himself with those who think the United States could feel the impact of the crisis more directly in coming months, saying on Friday night that it is "just not credible that the United States can remain an oasis of prosperity."
But a contingent within the central bank has been openly fretful that wage and price pressures are building in the United States economy. Although that contingent has given up pushing for a rate increase, it is unclear whether Mr. Greenspan, who prefers to avoid splits within the policy-making Open Market Committee, has the ammunition or the inclination to push through a rate increase at the next Fed meeting, on Sept. 29.
In his speech on Friday night, Mr. Greenspan mused at various points on the various crosscurrents facing the Fed.
He restated his belief that price stability, or at least significant progress toward it, is necessary to bring down interest rates and increase business and consumer confidence -- prerequisites to investments that yield increased productivity and higher living standards.
Yet he also referred bluntly to fears of a general fall in asset and product prices. "Presumably, the onset of deflation, should it occur, would increase uncertainty as much as a re-emergence of inflation concerns," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ASIA (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ASIA (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TRENDS (71%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



234 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 1807 words

HEADLINE: American Fashion Tries to Get a Jump on Europeans

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE C. R. WHITE 

 BODY:
For nearly 30 years, American fashion designers have presented their twice-yearly runway collections at the tail end of a month of shows in the fashion capitals of Europe. And for just as long, American designers have groused about getting short shrift -- their creativity underappreciated, their businesses thwarted by their last-to-the-market schedule.
Now, a revolution is taking place in the global fashion order. Americans are preparing to stage their women's wear shows, which showcase garments for retailers and the press, ahead of the rest of the world. 
 A renegade band of New York-based designers led by Calvin Klein, Donna Karan, Helmut Lang, Nicole Miller and Vivienne Tam will present their spring 1999 collections in various locations around the city starting on Monday, getting a jump on the European collections scheduled for September and October in London, Milan and Paris.
"The people who are serious about the business have wanted this to happen for some time," Mr. Klein said. "It's a great thing for American fashion."
The Americans expect that the scrambling of the calendar will help them expand their businesses by allowing them to get their clothes into stores more quickly. "Everyone wants earlier and earlier deliveries," Ms. Karan said. "The old system wasn't making sense."
There is also a significant intangible benefit to the move. Americans -- often cast in the role of Rodney Dangerfields on the global fashion stage, hungry for respect -- hope to prove once and for all that they are creative leaders as adept at setting trends as Europeans like Giorgio Armani and John Galliano. "Certainly, this will be a situation where they can't say that anymore -- that Americans are copying," Ms. Miller said.
Although no one can put a figure on how much money is likely to flow from stores into designers' coffers as a result of the earlier shows, retailers acknowledge the potential economic and psychic benefits of being first on the global schedule.
"What I hope it will prove is that Americans are creative on their own and not look like they're copying Italians or the French," said Peter Marx, vice president of Saks Jandel, which owns five designer stores in the Washington area.
Ann Stordahl, senior vice president for Neiman Marcus, said: "Emotionally, it will be exciting to see the Americans go first." But she added: "If that's the impetus for doing this -- if it's ego driven, that's discouraging. This is causing some very big changes in how we organize our travel."
Many designers are unapologetic that the move will enhance the reputation of Americans as mavericks. Mr. Klein, Ms. Karan and Ralph Lauren are among those who have been stung by criticism that their clothes looked too derivative of Europeans. But designers play down the move as a bid to establish creative supremacy; first and foremost, they say, it is a necessary adjustment to a business that has increasingly become global.
"The advantage is that we will be able to go into production much earlier," Mr. Klein said. "I as a designer who now has a global business had to have collections ready earlier. It's from the business point of view that this really makes sense. It gets misinterpreted when people think it's designer egos. Egos are not what it's about."
About two dozen designers are preparing to present their spring collections next week. A larger group, including Oscar de la Renta and Mr. Lauren, will stage shows as originally planned, after the Europeans, from Oct. 30 to Nov. 6 in tents in Bryant Park. They will be under the aegis of Seventh on Sixth, the show-production arm of the Council of Fashion Designers of America. For the following season, the entire slate of Americans will show in February, ahead of the Europeans. The tentative dates are Feb. 14 to 19.
This shift will mean a calendar of spring shows in September instead of in early November, and fall shows in February rather than in April.
What do European designers make of this American revolt? Didier Grumbach, president of the Federation de la Couture, the French organization of designers, said he would urge young French designers to present their fall 1999 collections, on or off the runway, in January, ahead of the new New York shows. The move, he said, was already afoot. "It will happen because it's what all the young houses must do," Mr. Grumbach said. "The actual system is the worst of all. It kills the new designers because no one knows who created what. The one who copied delivers before the one who invents. The only way is to take their orders in January."
In New York, the switch has sent a frisson of excitement and jitters up the industry's glamorous spine. "In the beginning I was a bit frightened," Ms. Tam said. "I said, 'How am I going to get everything ready?' I'm going to work late and make it happen because in the long run it will be good. It will take one or two seasons to get it smooth."
John Bartlett, who is in Italy this week preparing for the February show, plans to return his women's and men's collections to New York in February. It was a blow when Mr. Bartlett, one of the most exciting American designers of the last three years, moved his shows to Milan after signing an agreement with Genny S.p.A., an Italian fashion house. Mr. Bartlett said orders from European and Asian retailers exploded after he began introducing his line in Italy. He now gets 50 percent of his orders from abroad.
When he showed in New York, he said, too often retailers would come to his showroom with empty pockets and flagging spirits. "What we found, the way the New York stores are now, and the reason we showed in Milan, is that when stores come in, they've spent all their money," Mr. Bartlett said. When they did order, it was so late -- just three months before the clothes were scheduled to hit the selling floor, compared with five months for European orders -- that there was a pell-mell rush to get clothes into stores.
For stores, an earlier runway date allows earlier deliveries, and earlier deliveries mean a longer sales season. "The bottom line is getting the clothes into stores early," Mr. Bartlett said. "First in, first out."
At this point, retailers aren't promising to open their wallets wider just because they see Americans first; but most agree that retail business could be spurred by earlier deliveries. "I don't know if I'll buy more," said Michael Gould, the chairman of Bloomingdale's, which does about 70 percent of its business with American designers. "But if earlier shows help get the clothes into the store on time -- say, by Aug. 30 for fall merchandise, it's great."
In the case of big stores and big designers, the earlier schedule may actually have little impact on the size of orders. Stores like Neiman Marcus sometimes write 40 to 60 percent of their order a full two months before the show, especially from names like Calvin Klein, Ralph Lauren and Donna Karan. They are given designated store space that must be filled, said Ms. Stordahl of Neiman Marcus, who is senior vice president and general merchandise manager for women's apparel.
How well a collection sold the previous season is as powerful a factor in the size of an order as what a designer puts on the runway, retailers said.
Business considerations aside, switching to earlier show dates presents Americans with a chance to throw off the yoke of appearing unduly influenced by Europeans. Mr. Klein, in particular, has sometimes been criticized for showing clothes that were derivative of the minimalist stylings of Mr. Lang, an Austrian who moved his business from Vienna to New York last January.
Asked to respond to the criticism, Mr. Klein said: "American fashion has had an impact around the world, and we don't get credit for it because they show first. Now people will see the influence of Americans. It will be easier to put what we do in its proper context."
Paradoxically, it was Mr. Lang, the New York newcomer, who initiated the schedule upheaval when he announced this summer that he would show in September. Having staged his runway shows in Paris for some six years, Mr. Lang was used to presenting his line earlier than the old American calendar allowed. He would likely have remained an aberration had Mr. Klein not announced the very next day that he, too, would show in September.
Soon the situation snowballed, with more than a dozen designers saying they would also show two months earlier. The unified shows in Bryant Park were in danger of collapsing, with some designers showing in September and the remainder in November. Seventh on Sixth quickly polled designers to find out whether they wanted to move dates. The answer, while not unanimous, was yes.
Why American designers continue to be viewed as inferior by some retailers, journalists and customers is a mystery. Fifty years ago, American stores and designers did diligently and openly copy the French, then considered global style leaders. But much has changed. Many fashion insiders have long considered Americans leaders, not imitators.
"It's funny when people say Calvin is influenced by someone else, because no one has had more of an influence than Calvin or Ralph Lauren, who influence everybody in the world," said Robert Duffy, partner of the designer Marc Jacobs and an executive at Louis Vuitton.
British editors travel to New York to see Tommy Hilfiger's show and gather the latest information on sneakers; hip-hop style is considered cutting edge in cities around the world, and the idea of simple, comfortable dressing advanced by American life and stores like the Gap are the template for modern dress.
Some fashion insiders wonder if, by showing so much earlier, American designers might unintentionally undermine the very respect for creativity they crave. There is concern that designing clothes almost a year before they are to be worn may stunt designers' creativity.
The new schedule of women's shows will have a domino effect on the industry. The New York fall men's shows, typically held in February, may now be moved earlier, said Fern Mallis, executive director of Seventh on Sixth. This month, designers must already begin selecting fabrics, arranging production schedules and sketching styles for next February -- tasks most are used to doing in November. There will be no Christmas vacation in Cape Town this year, as Mr. Bartlett had planned.
The change is particularly hard on American designers like Mr. Bartlett, Mr. Jacobs, Mr. de la Renta and Michael Kors, who design their own collections as well as European lines. "It's going to be a nightmare from a design standpoint," Mr. Duffy said. "For the design staff there'll be no Christmas, no New Year. They won't be happy. My production staff is delighted. They get more time to work on the collection."

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Dan Lecca); Donna Karan is one of the American designers who want earlier show dates for the American fashion industry. Nicole Miller, at first reluctant to move her show, has now switched. (Phillip Greenberg for The New York Times); John Bartlett expects to expand his business by showing earlier, thus getting his clothes into the stores earlier. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); "I'm going to work late" to show early, Vivienne Tam said. (Bill Cunningham); . . . were inspired by outfits on European runways like the one at near left from Helmut Lang's collection for the same season. (Associated Press); Mr. Lang, above, moved to New York earlier this year. Oscar de la Renta faces back-to-back showings in January and February. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: SAKS JANDEL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FASHION DESIGNERS (93%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: WHITE, CONSTANCE C R GIORGIO ARMANI (79%); RALPH LAUREN (58%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



235 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: In Bellwether District, Clues to Lewinsky's Impact

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: PORTSMOUTH, Ohio, Sept. 7

 BODY:
Representative Ted Strickland sat in the back seat of the Ford Explorer, with its air-conditioner set up high, waiting for the start of the River Days parade, which has been the highlight of the Labor Day weekend in this Ohio River town as long as anyone can remember.
"In a normal year," he said, "I would have had two or three months of hand-to-hand combat by now, but so far this year, there's been almost no campaign. I spent most of my time this summer doing Congressional work." 
 Mr. Strickland, a 57-year-old Democrat, won his seat in 1992 on his fourth try. He lost it in 1994, then took it back in 1996. Each of the last three races has been a gasper, with the winner taking 51 percent, the loser 49, making this district, the Ohio Sixth, something of a national bellwether. Presidential races have been close, too, with George Bush winning by 2,720 votes in 1992 and Bill Clinton by only 4,488 in 1996.
This is precisely the kind of district that the Republicans would like to take to pad their uncomfortably narrow majority of 21 in the House of Representatives, and the Democrats need to hold onto if they are to have a chance of winning a majority of their own.
The race here has an additional significance as well. This is also the kind of religious, straitlaced district both parties will watch to measure the import of President Clinton's relationship with the former intern Monica S. Lewinsky.
Thus far, there are few overt signs that the Lewinsky matter will bedevil Mr. Strickland, although there is enough unease that he and other Democrats are willing to openly scold a President of their own party before Election Day.
At this stage in the campaign, at least, local issues are the dominant concern. But the flames of partisan passion have not truly begun burning here in the rolling hills of the Sixth, a lovely if economically forlorn region stretching east along the river from the exurbs of Cincinnati for more than 150 miles to Marietta, the oldest town in the Midwest, which was founded in 1788. People are talking about the heat -- it was over 100 degrees this weekend -- and not about the campaign.
Lieut. Gov. Nancy Hollister, 48, the Republican nominee, is a more than presentable candidate, a moderate, a supporter of limited abortion rights, with roots in the region.
But Ms. Hollister had to fight a nasty primary against four more socially conservative rivals, including Frank A. Cremeans, who beat Mr. Strickland in 1994 and lost to him in 1996. That emptied her campaign treasury. After a summer of fund-raising, she has only about $200,000 on hand, but Mr. Strickland has more than twice that.
Ms. Hollister trails in the polls, by as much as 10 points in one, by a smaller margin in others. Both candidates expect a tight finish.
"I always run as if I'm a thousand votes behind," she said in an interview this afternoon, sitting cross-legged on the floor of her Marietta living room. "All I have to do is convince people that the less government, the better. My opponent tries to dip into the Federal goodies bag for the district, but I would deliver Federal dollars directly to the localities for them to spend."
The two candidates disagree on how to reform school financing after a court decision declaring the present system unconstitutional. They talk about jobs, which have been a problem hereabouts for decades; Portsmouth alone has lost shoe factories and a steel mill, and with them half its population. The median family income is the lowest in the state, at $21,761 a year.
But what of Mr. Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky?
Some Ohio Democrats, including Mr. Strickland, have openly criticized the President. Representative Marcy Kaptur of Toledo denounced him in a speech last week for having dragged the nation and his family through "a year of deceitful melodrama" and told The Cleveland Plain Dealer that even resignation would not constitute adequate atonement. More subtly, Mary Boyle, the party's Senate candidate, produced a video that showed her with Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator John Glenn, whom she hopes to succeed, but not with Mr. Clinton.
"I like this man personally," Mr. Strickland said. "I've supported him on most issues. But not many people get to be President, and not many people are as smart as he is. What a waste! He has endangered everything he's worked for and I've worked for. His Presidency might actually end prematurely.
"I'm amazed and very sad and disappointed, like my constituents, and angry, too. But people's anger is not out of control yet, and I don't think it will affect the way they vote this fall. But it might; it could."
Mr. Strickland, a former Methodist minister who still greets male acquaintances with an evangelical "how are you doing, my brother?" is also a graduate psychologist. In his former occupation as a counselor at a local prison, he said, he had "encountered all kinds of behavior." But he had nonetheless been astounded, he added, "by the risks the President took, the repetition, even when his actions had already got him in trouble, again and again."
As for Ms. Hollister, she said Mr. Clinton had "violated the code of ethics and behavior you have to hold yourself to as a public official." At the moment, the Lewinsky case is not entering into many voting decisions here, she said, but by October, she suggested, "things may look different."
Debby Allard, the editor of The Portsmouth Times, said that because Mr. Strickland had spoken out against Mr. Clinton's behavior, "I can't see many people at all around here punishing Strickland for the President's sins."
The situation could have been worse for him if Mr. Cremeans had won the Republican primary, local people say. He has a strong appeal to the religious right -- the former head of the Christian Coalition, Ralph Reed, was an adviser for a time -- and he might have been better able to stir up socially conservative voters on the Clinton issue.
This is an old-fashioned world with traditional values, less inclined to live and let live than Cincinnati and other big Ohio cities. The big River Days parade, for example, was a page from a simpler past, with homemade costumes and floats, fire engines, Model T Fords, Model A Fords, high school bands and an American Legion honor guard. The one truly contemporary note was the names of the cheerleaders who rode on long flatbed trucks: Bethany and Tiffany, Lindsay and Brittany, Courtney and Ashley, with nary a Jane or a Mary in sight.
What worries him, Mr. Strickland said, is a low turnout in November. With most people prosperous, with continuing cynicism about politics and with no crisis abroad, voters might stay at home, and that would help Ms. Hollister, the Congressman suggested. The best solution, he said, would be "for Clinton to go for broke, cast aside this excessive caution, set inspiring goals."
But few in Washington see much chance of that, and many think Mr. Strickland's fears of a low turnout will be realized. In a study earlier this year, Curtis Gans of the Center for the Study of the American Electorate predicted a "sharply reduced" turnout compared with 1994, and suggested it was likely to hurt Democrats because of disproportionately heavy participation by more highly paid voters, who tend to be Republicans.
Mr. Strickland has done what he can to insulate himself against adversity. He works hard at the minutiae of constituent service, returning each weekend to the district, plying the byways of an area without a city of more than 25,000 people.
Always a fairly centrist Democrat, Mr. Strickland has inched far further to the right in the last two years. He was one of only 15 Democrats to vote to end the income tax by 2003; he backed a constitutional amendment banning flag-burning, and he opposed the President on several trade issues. That has led Ms. Hollister to accuse him of lacking principle and bowing to electoral expediency.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Ted Strickland, top, a Democrat, at the Labor Day parade in Sabina, Ohio. Above, Lieut. Gov. Nancy Hollister, a Republican, greeted 6-month-old Chance Simpkins, the baby's mother, Anna Parker, left, and her grandmother, Margaret Hutchison, yesterday in Jacksonville, Ohio. (Bill Graham for The New York Times); (Mark Lyons for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS; ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); US LABOR DAY (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); ETHICS (62%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; STRICKLAND, TED (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S TED STRICKLAND (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



236 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan's Hint of Rate Cut Sends Value of Dollar Down

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 7

 BODY:
The dollar fell 2 percent to a four-month low against the yen and slumped to a nine-month low against the mark after Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, suggested that United States interest rates might be cut in coming months.
"The Fed has changed its stance on rates; it's the only reasonable thing to do," said Gerry Celaya, a senior currency analyst at American Express Bank who expects the dollar to fall further. "The dollar hasn't yet seen its lows." 
 The dollar fell as low as 130.50 yen, the lowest since April 24, from 133.75 late Friday in London. It had recently been at 131.82. It fell to 1.7208 marks, the lowest point since Nov. 13.
Mr. Greenspan suggested on Friday that the recession in many Asian countries and other emerging markets might rein in American economic growth. "It's just not credible that the United States can remain an oasis of prosperity unaffected by a world that is experiencing greatly increased stress," he said.
Steve Barrow, a currency strategist at Bear Stearns International, said, "Greenspan probably went as far as we could have expected in suggesting the Fed will move to a neutral bias" from a bias toward raising interest rates.
"We could see the dollar slide through 1.70 marks and 130 yen rather quickly," he added.
Paul Duncombe, an investment director at State Street Global Advisors, which manages $500 billion worldwide, said: "A lot of store is being put into the U.S. cutting interest rates. The dollar is probably a little oversold against the yen."
The dollar was also hurt as investors, including United States hedge funds, bought yen to pay off loans used to invest in emerging markets like Russia and Latin America, which have plunged.
In recent months, many investors had used so-called yen-carry trades to borrow yen at Japan's low rates and then converted the yen to dollars to seek higher returns overseas.
"I'm bearish on the dollar because so many investors are closing their yen-carry trades to compensate for losses in emerging markets," said Tetsu Aikawa, a foreign exchange manager at Sanwa Bank Ltd.
The yen also got a lift after Japanese officials warned investors that their currency had further to rise.
"It's hard to buy dollars after the officials said they want to see the yen strengthen further, even though it has risen," said Toyomitsu Sakata, the head of treasury and foreign exchange sales at Commerzbank in Tokyo. The rise has been nearly 10 percent in two weeks.
Eisuke Sakakibara, Japan's vice finance minister for international affairs, said Japanese and American officials "still share concern about excessive weakness of the yen."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: STAN (LSE) (57%); 2888 (HKSE) (57%); CZB (LSE) (50%); CBK (FRA) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (63%); STANDARD CHARTERED PLC (57%); JP MORGAN MARKETS LTD (55%); COMMERZBANK AG (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



237 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Korea Bid Expected To Go to Rothschild

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Tuesday, Sept. 8

 BODY:
Creditors of the insolvent Halla Group, which owns Korea's biggest auto component manufacturer, appear likely to accept an offer by Rothschild Inc. to buy four of the group's companies for $1.8 billion, according to Korea Exchange Bank, one of Halla's biggest creditors.
The United States investment banking arm of the Rothschild family's financial business will lay out its final proposal this afternoon. 
 "We and other creditors will detail our positions by October," said an official at Korea Exchange Bank, which is in charge of loans owed by Halla, "but I haven't come across any strong objectors yet."
A successful turnaround at Halla could lead to more business for Rothschild and other international banks that specialize in mergers and acquisitions. It could also relieve burdens at Korean banks, which have not received interest payments for at least six months on 10 percent of their loans because of a deepening recession.
Rothschild asked Korean creditors to write off 3.83 trillion won ($2.8 billion) of debt out of 6.209 trillion won owed by Halla. It would then make a one-time payment of 2.37 trillion won to creditors of the four companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 004940 (KSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (53%); 

COMPANY: HALLA GROUP; ROTHSCHILD INC ROTHSCHILD INC (91%); KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (58%); HALLA GROUP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HALLA GROUP; ROTHSCHILD INC HALLA GROUP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (53%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (73%); MERGERS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (68%); RECESSION (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



238 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Murdoch's BSkyB May Bid For British Soccer Team
B Sky B, Rupert Murdoch's British satellite broadcasting unit, confirmed that it was in discussions to acquire the Manchester United soccer team for a reported $950 million. The move comes after Mr. Murdoch's United States holdings have acquired stakes in American sports franchises. Page C4.
 
Russian Bank Chairman Resigns
The chairman of Russia's central bank, Sergei Dubinin, resigned amid mounting financial chaos in that country. He criticized Parliament's failure to act more quickly to help resuscitate the economy. Trading in the ruble was halted on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange barely an hour after opening because no traders were willing to sell their dollars. A12. 

New Record for Summer Travel
The summer travel season ended yesterday with expectations that it had set another record and with forecasts of record tourism again this fall. The nonprofit Travel Industry Association of America had estimated that Americans would take 251 million trips this summer, 3 percent more than last year, and it has predicted a record 196 million travelers this fall, a 5 percent increase. C5.
 
Learning to Live With Volatility
For employees of technology start-up companies, whose net worth is often dependent on stock options, the recent swings in stock prices require coping with volatility unimaginable to many investors. A1.
 
Goldman to Discuss Offering
Goldman, Sachs & Company has told its 11,500 employees worldwide to participate in a conference call this morning in which Goldman's leaders are expected to discuss the planned offering of shares to the public. C2.
 
Merger Season May Be at an End
As the summer vacation season ends, Wall Street investment bankers may find the flurry of merger activity earlier this year has subsided. As stocks have fallen, some bankers worry about which deals may fall apart. C2.
 
20 Advertising Questions
When did Florence Henderson, who played the mother on the "The Brady Bunch," become the pitchwoman for Polident? Is Pepsico mad at Coke over a slight to the Spice Girls? Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C9.
 
U.S. Markets Reopen
Financial markets in the United States will reopen today. They were closed yesterday in observance of Labor Day.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
 
Consumer Borrowing
July figures due at 3 P.M. Eastern.
Expected: +3.0 billion
 
Other graphs track the share of nonagricultural workers in mining, construction or manufacturing, since 1978, and the percentage of all workers in unions, from 1983 through 1997. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statisitics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BSY (LSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); MANU (NYSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (58%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (58%); PEPSICO INC (52%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ENGLAND (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SOCCER (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); MERGERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STARTUPS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); STOCK OFFERINGS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



239 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
In Sosa's Hometown, It's a One-Man Show

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: SAN PEDRO DE MACORIS, Dominican Republic, Sept. 7

 BODY:
Sammy Sosa was a hero here in his baseball-crazed homeland long before he and Mark McGwire began their pursuit of Babe Ruth and Roger Maris. So when the Cubs and the Cardinals squared off this afternoon in St. Louis with Maris's major league home run record up for grabs, it was as if 8 million people had dropped whatever they were doing to root for him.
"The streets are almost as empty as when the Government decrees a curfew," said Gerardo Mota, a hotel maintenance worker here who had shuffled his work schedule to watch the game at a bar and betting parlor in the same neighborhood where Sosa grew up. "Everybody is watching, either in their homes or in places like this, because we all want Sammy to break that record." 
 No matter that by the end of the day, Sosa's chances of getting there ahead of McGwire had nearly disappeared; McGwire hit his 61st home run, tying Maris's record, while Sosa remained stuck on 58. Their faith unshaken, Sosa's friends and neighbors began looking for new ways to frame the remarkable achievements of their idol, who grew up poor but talented in a town that boasts that it has produced more major league players per capita than any place in the world.
"Even if McGwire gets 62 first, Sammy is going to be the first dark-skinned player to hit 60 home runs in a season, and that's a real distinction," said Kelvin Garcia, a 16-year-old shortstop who had attended an Atlanta Braves tryout earlier in the day. "Hank Aaron never homered 60 times in a season, and neither did Orlando Cepeda, Tony Perez, Roberto Clemente, Tony Armas or anybody else."
Sosa's countrymen have followed his exploits intently ever since he signed his first contract as a 16-year-old with the Texas Rangers, and they were thrilled when he agreed to a $42.5 million deal with the Cubs two years ago. But it was only after he hit his 48th homer on Aug. 19 off Kent Bottenfield of the Cardinals, breaking the single-season record for most home runs by a Latin American player, that the whole country dared to dream that Maris might be next.
The day after the Latin American record fell, Dominican newspapers put Sosa's feat on their front pages, where it competed with Fidel Castro's impending arrival for a Caribbean summit, the Cuban leader's first visit here in four years. The record Sosa broke had been held by another native of San Pedro de Macoris, George Bell of the Toronto Blue Jays, but that did not seem to matter.
"It is amazing to me just how happy and enthusiastic people have been over the last month," Sonia Sosa, the slugger's older sister, said during an interview this morning at the boutique she runs at the 30-30 Plaza, a shopping mall the slugger built after hitting 33 homers and stealing 36 bases in 1993. "I walk down the street, and people run out of their houses or drive by on their motorbikes and yell, 'He's got 57, and we're all pulling for him!' "
Throughout the Caribbean, the attitude has been much the same. For a month now, newspapers in Panama, Venezuela, Puerto Rico, Nicaragua and Mexico have been publishing boxes with Sosa's and McGwire's daily home run tally, while radio stations have been breaking in on their regular programs every time Sosa hits a home run. "Sosa is carrying the flag for all of us in Latin America," Luis Pimentel Escobar, a parking attendant in Panama, said last week. "Every time he hits a four-bagger, he is reminding everybody that baseball is our game too."
Dominicans are even more sensitive than other people in Latin America about the way they are portrayed in the United States, and they flinch every time this country is linked to drug trafficking or illegal immigration. So the burst of publicity that has come with Sosa's ascent has been welcomed by all classes and political tendencies as a chance to change the country's image.
"Sammy is a wonderful kid, and what he has done is great for baseball, great for the Dominican Republic and great for San Pedro de Macoris," said Manuel Rodriguez Robles, a former mayor here. "He has projected this country and this town onto the world stage in a way that no Dominican has ever done."
Sosa's rise from rags to riches is the source of much of the popular adulation he enjoys here. One of six children of a widow who cooked meals for factory workers to eke out a living, Sosa as a child "shined shoes, sold oranges, washed cars, did any kind of work that was honest," as he put it in an interview last year, to help his mother make ends meet.
"Sosa had to overcome all kinds of adversity, economic and social, that McGwire never had to face when he was growing up," said Luis de la Cruz, one of the fans watching the game at Josecito's Betting Parlor today. "That makes what Sammy has done all the more admirable and extraordinary."
One of Sosa's initiatives here is a baseball school, which opened late last year. Talented teen-age players from families of "limited means" are recruited from around the country, given scholarships, housing, food and training that includes clinics personally taught by Sosa. Already, five graduates have been signed by four different major league teams.
Naturally, all 16 of the players enrolled in the academy today proclaimed themselves Sosa supporters. But the most passionate of them was probably Simon Soriano, a 16-year-old who plays right field, Sosa's position, wears Sosa's number, 21, on his jersey and even mimics his idol's batting stance.
"I'm a photocopy of Sammy Sosa," he said proudly this morning. "I hope he hits two home runs today and that McGwire strikes out four times. Sammy has already broken the Latin American record, the Cubs' team record and the record for the most homers in one month. He deserves to break this one too, and I know he will."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cubs' Sammy Sosa walking to the dugout yesterday after striking out in the ninth to end the game. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (85%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CANADA (71%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO CUBS CHICAGO CUBS (93%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS CHICAGO CUBS (93%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC; LATIN AMERICA (85%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CANADA (71%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS BASEBALL (92%); 

PERSON: SOSA, SAMMY; ROHTER, LARRY FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



240 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: At State U., No Room at the Dorm For the Invited but Not Expected

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS 

 BODY:
So many more freshmen than had originally been expected showed up at the University of Maryland at College Park last month that dozens were sent to spend the semester at the local Quality Inn.
"I think we have it better than the other freshmen," said Carrie Smith, 17, settling herself on a Sesame Street blanket. "They don't have air-conditioning or cable." 
 Some of the overflow at the University of Delaware in Newark was happily camped in luxury apartments normally reserved for university guests. And at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Antony Zoeteman, 18, spent his first two weeks living in a dormitory study lounge with three other students, bunk beds and several sofas.
Large state universities across the United States are seeing freshman enrollments surge this fall, forcing officials to scramble to find beds, instructors and classrooms. Colleges usually offer admission to more applicants than they expect to attend, to insure that dormitories and classes are filled. But this year, some were caught by surprise at the number taking them up on the offers.
Officials say students are opting for public institutions because the big state universities are doing a better job of marketing their strong points, because parents are worried about the economy and want good value for money and because some of the more expensive private institutions have reached the limit to the financial aid they can offer as their overall costs go up.
Fall enrollment figures are still incomplete for many universities, some of which will not start classes until later this month, but one of the largest overflows so far occurred at the College Station campus of Texas A&M University, where a freshman class of 7,400 arrived last week -- 1,200 more students than had been expected earlier this year, when offers of admission were sent out.
"Every time I was told the estimate for the freshman class," said Ronald G. Douglas, executive vice president and provost at A&M, "it kept getting bigger."
"I'm glad they're here because they can't get bigger," he added with relief. There are 34,000 undergraduates at the College Station campus, one of seven A&M campuses.
Huge freshman classes, with 200 to 500 more students than anticipated, have also arrived at the University of California at Berkeley, Rutgers University, the University of Arizona, Oregon State University and Pennsylvania State University.
It is too soon to tell who -- if anyone -- will be the enrollment losers as large public colleges get more crowded.
The University of Delaware enrolled 270 more freshmen than it had anticipated. Larry A. Griffith, director of admissions, said the university had "for a long time been a quietly excellent place academically," but recently had been raising more money for new buildings and had begun marketing itself more aggressively.
"I believe the next group of 'public Ivies' is emerging and that our experience at the University of Delaware is true of the best public universities," Mr. Griffith said, "which show well under the increased scrutiny by parents, students and the ratings guides."
At Rutgers, New Jersey's state university, there was an overflow of 470 freshmen.
"I believe more people are discovering us," said Diane Harris, associate director of undergraduate admissions. For a total cost of $10,000 a year, she said, a New Jersey resident "can get an excellent education at a research university."
"You get a very good value," Ms. Harris said. "I don't know why they don't all come to the university."
Daniel J. Saracino, assistant provost for enrollment at the University of Notre Dame and a former president of the National Association for College Admissions Counseling, agreed that first-rate state universities "are good buys."
"Kids can apply to the privates," Mr. Saracino said, "and if the financial aid isn't what they want, they can rely on fine public schools."
"Private schools that have always counted on financial aid to level the playing field may not be able to continue to pour the money in," he added, pointing to what he said was the growing gap between college costs and what students and their families actually pay. "The discount rates have gotten way too high, 30 to 40 percent, and there has been a leveling off in many cases. It's kind of a poker game in admissions offices across the country. Some are saying the pot is too rich for me, and I'm going to fold; enough is enough."
Some private colleges and universities have also reported significant increases in the percentage of freshmen who accepted offers of admission this year. Alfred University in Alfred, N.Y., had an overflow of 50 freshmen in the largest freshman class in 25 years. It had to rent a dormitory from Alfred State College, across the street.
Harvard University reported that 80 percent of applicants who were offered admission this year accepted, the highest rate in 20 years. Alex Huppe, director of the office of public affairs, said Harvard was able to hold its new freshman class to 1,650, "right on target," because it kept a long waiting list from which it usually planned to fill its class.
The large public universities may also be seeing the first signs of a surge in the number of high school graduates, which started to grow in 1995 after a long decline and is expected to peak in 2008 at 2.9 million, above the record 2.8 million in 1979.
"There is a baby boomlet that is just now starting to hit higher education," said Robin Zuniga, a research associate at the Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education, a nonprofit inter-government agency in Boulder, Colo.
"This is just the beginning of it, and it's a tidal wave," Ms. Zuniga said. "If the schools were surprised, they shouldn't be. And if they're feeling pressure now, they're going to be feeling a lot more."
One sign of that pressure, admissions officers at both private and public institutions said, was the decline this year of what they called the "summer melt rate," the number of students who accept an offer of college admission in the spring and then write or call to say they have changed their minds.
Kent H. Jones, dean of enrollment and college relations at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., said: "We typically lose 10 percent of our original enrollments between May 1 and the beginning of classes in September as students are taken off waiting lists at other colleges, change plans or defer enrollment for a year. This year, our summer attrition is 6 percent of our original deposits -- unprecedented in our experience."
"As a result," Mr. Jones said, "we will open with a first-year class of 597, which is 22 over our target of 575."
College admission is an inexact process, university officials readily acknowledge. When the percentage of candidates accepting admission changes without warning, the results are significant at a large university. This year's increase of 2 percent at Illinois resulted in a freshman class of 6,464, the largest in the university's history and nearly 397 more than expected.
Over the summer, the university added to its teaching staff. The English department, which this semester has 3,000 freshmen in classes limited to 22 students, exhausted its supply of teaching assistants from its own graduate students and other departments and turned to former graduate students, faculty spouses and writers living in the community. Dennis Baron, the department head, said the last teaching assistant was hired the day after classes began.
Similar freshman enrollment shocks hit the University of Wisconsin, the University of Washington and the University of Michigan last fall. Each took steps this year to get the numbers down, becoming more selective and making fewer offers of admission.
Julie Peterson, a spokeswoman for Michigan, said, "Some students who are now sophomores have to go back and take some required courses where there wasn't room for them last year as freshmen."
Penn State has been trying to reduce the size of its freshmen classes since 1995, when it was caught by surprise by 760 extra freshmen at its main campus, an event that forced the university to appeal for rooms in private homes.
This year Penn State accepted 1,000 fewer freshmen, said John Romano, vice provost for enrollment management and administration, but more freshmen decided to enroll, so the class of 5,100 at the University Park campus is just as big as in earlier years.
Enrollment at University Park has grown to a record 41,000, from 37,000 in 1995. The university has added 100 faculty members since then.
At Delaware, which has 15,000 undergraduates, Mr. Griffith said he did not see the boom coming. When applications arrived, he said, "we got the 15,000 we typically get," and after making offers of admission, expected a class of 3,350. "For the first time, we made the class before May 1, and I thought great, and then the deposits kept rolling in.
"We looked at each other and said, it'll be O.K., well, maybe a little high, and when the smoke cleared on May 10, we were just below 3,800," Mr. Griffith said. "I went on vacation and prayed for a hot summer. We did have a nice melt, and we ended up at 3,620."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Antony Zoeteman, left, James Smith, top bunk, and Matthew Underwood spent their first two weeks at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign living in a makeshift room intended as a study lounge. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (57%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (84%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (84%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (57%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; FINANCES; STATES (US); SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 

PERSON: THOMAS, JO MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



241 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S LAWYER SEEKS EARLY LOOK AT STARR FINDINGS

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7

 BODY:
President Clinton's private lawyer asked today that Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent prosecutor, let him review at least a week in advance any report he submits to Congress, in a sign the White House is readying a defense against possible impeachment hearings.
The request came with Mr. Clinton facing wrenching decisions about how to reassure Democrats as criticism of his handling of the Lewinsky episode mounts within his own party. 
 With the House of Representatives returning to session on Wednesday and midterm elections just two months away, the prospect of Mr. Starr's report has electrified the political atmosphere here, alarming Congressional Democrats and causing some to distance themselves from the President.
But the White House is still scrambling for a strategy to take the political initiative in the country and the Congress away from Mr. Starr, some of the President's outside advisers say.
One option being urged on Mr. Clinton is that he disclose embarrassing information by candidly answering reporters' questions about his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky.
In a letter to the prosecutors today, David E. Kendall, Mr. Clinton's private lawyer, wrote that out of "fundamental fairness," Mr. Starr should let him and the White House counsel's office review any report early enough to permit them "one week to submit a written reply." That reply, together with the report, might then be given to Judge Norma Holloway Johnson, who has been supervising the grand jury in Mr. Starr's investigation, or sent straight to Congress.
Mr. Kendall argued that Mr. Starr might transmit his information to Congress but that he was not authorized by law to prepare a report that summarizes or analyzes it. And Congress, he wrote, has in the past expressed concern that judgments made in such a report could intrude on its constitutional responsibilities in weighing impeachment.
"We believe that fundamental fairness dictates that we have the opportunity to review such a document and submit simultaneously any reply we wish to make," Mr. Kendall.
Mr. Starr had no comment on the letter, a spokesman said tonight.
White House officials have argued that Mr. Starr, a Republican, will not produce a balanced report on his eight-month-old inquiry into Mr. Clinton's relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. Noting that Mr. Starr's witnesses have not been cross-examined, they are eager to give their own interpretation of the facts.
If Mr. Starr refuses to provide the advance copy, White House aides will argue that he is acting unfairly, trying to sandbag the President by surprising him with a report that they expect to read like an indictment, one adviser to Mr. Clinton said.
After almost three weeks away, the Clintons came back over the long weekend to a capital turned suddenly hostile. Having taken a pasting from Senate Democrats last week, the White House is bracing for the possibility of more criticism from House members who have heard an earful from constituents.
To remind the public and his party of his legislative goals, the President plans a series of campaign-style appearances, beginning Tuesday with his promotion of a school modernization plan.
But, fatigued by weeks of domestic and foreign crises, the President and his aides are also trying to develop a legal and political strategy to deal with the expected report from Mr. Starr. The Clintons' time away from Washington -- first on vacation and then in Russia and Ireland -- has hampered internal planning about the report.
"We understandably don't have a lot of fizz right now," one of the President's outside advisers said.
Another ally of Mr. Clinton said criticism in a speech last Thursday by a fellow Democrat, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, might have shaken the White House out of a sense that Mr. Clinton's high approval ratings in public opinion polls would protect him.
"The White House has relied on polling and missed the real danger of the political slow burn that began moments after the speech," this ally said. "A lot of us are hoping Senator Lieberman's speech is the real wake-up call, causing a major and fundamental change in the President's approach to this issue, not an incremental one or a strategic one."
Had Mr. Clinton delivered a full-throated apology in his brief talk to the nation on Aug. 17, some of his aides believe, he would by now have the high ground in criticizing Mr. Starr. Instead, Democrats' irritation with Mr. Clinton has grown since that speech, said one Democratic consultant advising several members of Congress.
"You do get a sense -- maybe just temporarily -- the sense that people are sort of done with it," he said. "They're done with him. There's not another escape."
Some of Mr. Clinton's aides believe that Democrats have been criticizing him in part out of fear that the Starr report will convey damaging information not yet disclosed.
As a result, some Clinton advisers are pushing his legal team to release all records relating to Ms. Lewinsky that Mr. Starr has obtained, like the logs of her visits to the White House. Then, they argue, the President should answer detailed questions from reporters.
Lanny J. Davis, a former White House special counsel, urged that strategy when Mr. Clinton was responding to accusations about his 1996 campaign finances. He says the White House should now "help reporters write all of the details of this story prior to the Starr report, because fundamentally the only chance we have of a balanced presentation is if we put this information out ourselves."
One White House official argued that because of the scandal, the public was now watching Mr. Clinton "like a hawk" and was "more attuned to what he's saying, not less." As a result, this official said, Mr. Clinton's planned events could benefit him.
The President is scheduled to travel to Florida on Wednesday to raise money for the Democratic nominee for governor, Buddy MacKay, and to promote school safety. He will follow that, his aides say, with a blitz of public appearances to push new safety regulations and health care legislation and to address international economic troubles. In particular, he will emphasize his economic stewardship, his central political theme since he first ran for President in 1992.
But not many issues have mitigated the furor over Ms. Lewinsky recently, despite some powerful contenders: since Mr. Clinton acknowledged the relationship, he has ordered one of the biggest military operations of his Presidency, and the stock market has tumbled more than 500 points on a single day, among other dramatic doings.
"Campaign-style events, I don't know if those can change the subject," a Democratic strategist said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "The problem is everyone really has got their ear to the ground for the big shoe of the Starr report to drop."
In the meantime, it is far from certain that Congress will pass even the budget legislation necessary to prevent a Government shutdown, let alone act on the President's broad agenda.
"It's difficult for the President to talk about restoring integrity to the political process right now," said Representative Christopher Shays, a Connecticut Republican who has been a close ally of the White House in seeking to tighten campaign finance laws.
Some Administration officials say that, away from the uproar, work is getting done.
"In our area, I think he's going to have the best year in his Administration," said Andrew M. Cuomo, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Cuomo predicted an increase in his budget in the coming year to $25 billion, from $24 billion.
Mr. Cuomo said he had noticed an "amazing disconnect" in some 15 cities he has visited since Mr. Clinton's statement about Ms. Lewinsky.
"I'm asked about it by the media in every city," he said, "and the people never comment on it."
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: PRESIDENT CLINTON'S PRIVATE (93%); WHITE HOUSE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA LAWYERS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); WITNESSES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); ETHICS (76%); INDICTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; KENDALL, DAVID E; BENNET, JAMES BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



242 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: Drugs Taint an Annual Round of Gay Revels

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

 BODY:
It began in the early stages of the AIDS epidemic as a relatively modest affair, a respite for the living and remembrance of the dead that was held in daylight, so that even the ill might be able to go, and was given a double-edged title resonant of grief.
A decade and a half later, the Morning Party has evolved into a glamorous social event that attracts hordes of gay men to Fire Island and reliably raises enormous sums of money for Gay Men's Health Crisis, perhaps the country's most respected private AIDS service organization. 
 This year's gathering, on Aug. 16, was no different. About 4,500 men went, an estimated $450,000 was raised and a good time was had by many.
But the hangover has been formidable, underlining the way the event has become an albatross around the health group's neck and a flash point in an increasingly bitter debate over the alliances between AIDS service organizations and a network of dance-oriented fund-raisers at which a substantial number of participants are high on drugs.
In the predawn hours leading up to this year's Morning Party, a 35-year-old man from Bronxville, N.Y., overdosed and died. During the event, a security consultant who had been hired by the health group to help weed out drug use -- and who had made a speech imploring partygoers to stay clean -- was among 21 men arrested on charges of possessing illegal drugs.
In the three weeks since, many gay men have questioned the propriety of the group's endorsement of a party that seems to inspire the kind of drug consumption widely thought to increase the likelihood of unsafe sexual behavior and the spread of AIDS.
"It gives the organization not only money, but future clients," said Troy Masters, the publisher of LGNY, a twice-monthly newspaper for lesbians and gay men in the New York region. "In a way, it's like a self-perpetuating machine."
Criticism of this kind has been aimed at Gay Men's Health Crisis for several years. In 1996, a man was evacuated by helicopter from the Morning Party after slipping into a drug-induced coma.
But the complaints seem to be taking on a heightened urgency with the proliferation around the country of other large-scale gay dance events, some of which funnel part of their profits to AIDS service organizations and include the organizations' names in promotional materials.
These events have come to be known as "circuit parties" because they are linked by similar music and because some of them attract the same core crowd, lavishly muscled and wealthy enough to buy plane tickets and plenty of drugs like cocaine, Ecstasy and ketamine, or "special K."
In addition, the array of chemicals taken by at least a few of the men who attend circuit parties has expanded recently to include a liquid anesthetic, gamma hydroxybutyrate, or GHB, that has been implicated in a string of medical emergencies at circuit parties this year. GHB is extolled by some as an aphrodisiac.
Suffolk County law enforcement officials said that GHB appeared to cause the death of Frank J. Giordano, 35, at the Pines on Fire Island around 4 A.M. on Aug. 16, seven hours before the Morning Party officially began on a stretch of beach nearby.
Three other men at the Pines who apparently took the same batch of GHB were brought to hospitals on Long Island, treated and released, law enforcement officials said. Several people who attended the Morning Party said that one of the three men made it back to the Pines in time to join the festivities.
"People are partying harder than ever with substances that are more volatile than ever," said Alan Brown, a New Haven management consultant who annually attends about two dozen circuit parties, from Montreal to Miami, and recently sat on a panel at a gay physicians' conference in Chicago to discuss health issues relating to the events. "People have been leaving parties in ambulances routinely for three years now."
Mr. Brown and other gay men familiar with circuit parties emphasized that many men who attend the events use illegal drugs infrequently, if ever, and that a vast majority of gay men have never been to one.
Officials of Gay Men's Health Crisis, which stages (and profits from) the Morning Party, said that educating the minority of gay men involved in the party circuit about the perils of drugs is a principal reason the organization remains committed to the event, which they said would occur with or without the group's involvement.
Jeff Soref, who was president of its board when the organization began to assume full responsibility for coordinating the event in the early 1990's, said, "G.M.H.C. does need to be involved in harm reduction, and it does need to be where the community is."
Others stressed that during recent years, the organization had intensified its efforts to rid the Morning Party of illegal drugs, distributing written warnings. Many people who attended the Morning Party this year said that drug use was noticeably less prevalent and conspicuous than in the past.
Ronald Johnson, the organization's managing director for public policy, said that linking the GHB overdoses that occurred more than eight hours earlier to the event was gratuitous.
But critics said that the Morning Party, like other circuit events, has spawned several days of nonstop revelry around it, and cannot divorce itself from those often reckless festivities.
"If G.M.H.C. officials don't think they have some responsibility for the overdoses, they're kidding themselves," said Michael Trovato, 41, who spends summer weekends on Fire Island.
Many gay men said the organization could do prevention work at the party without sponsoring it, which they contended tacitly condones the drug-taking throughout the weekend. Several said they had stopped donating money to the organization because of its affiliation with the gathering and knew others who had done likewise, although Mr. Johnson said he had seen no evidence of that.
In some ways, circuit parties are nothing new. Among both heterosexuals and homosexuals, going back several decades, there have been late-night, drug-fueled dance extravaganzas.
But during the last five years, special gay events of this kind have not only multiplied -- they now number in the dozens -- but also clustered into an informal network with its own Internet sites, disk jockeys and preferred body type, gym-toned and sometimes steroid-enhanced.
The circuit embraces New York and New Orleans, Palm Springs and Pensacola, though many events have no connection to AIDS service organizations. It usually features shirtless men dancing all through the night, their energy and euphoria often enhanced by powders or pills.
Gay men knowledgeable about the circuit said that Viagra has also made an appearance, prompting recent seminars in San Francisco and Miami that discussed its interaction with other drugs, including protease inhibitors, the antiviral agents taken by people with AIDS.
But what most alarms many gay men and public health experts is not the drug use itself but the implications for responsible sexual conduct.
"The extent to which gay men use drugs is a strong, significant predictor of becoming H.I.V.-positive," said Ron Stall, a professor of epidemiology at the University of California at San Francisco.
Others said that some circuit parties even feature darkened back rooms and that a few men who flock to circuit extravaganzas also attend sex parties before or after the main event and may not adhere strictly to precautions against H.I.V. transmission.
That has provoked critics into greater anger at AIDS service organizations around the country for staging circuit parties or signing on as beneficiaries.
"Circuit parties got the imprimatur of their local AIDS organizations and -- bingo -- instant, total respectability," said Gabriel Rotello, author of "Sexual Ecology: AIDS and the Destiny of Gay Men" (Dutton, 1997). "And the irony of that is just so awesome."
To varying degrees, officials with AIDS service organizations that are involved in circuit parties are wrestling with that accusation, a process complicated by their difficulty raising money in other ways.
They said that sunny news reports about better treatments for AIDS have left many individual donors with the mistaken impression that the epidemic is waning and have discouraged them from giving as much money as in the past.
"We are more dependent than ever on special events fund-raising," said Bryan Delowery, the events coordinator for the AIDS Information Network, an organization in Philadelphia that stages a circuit party there every January. The event, called the Blue Ball, raises $125,000, more than 10 percent of the group's annual budget.
Profits from the Morning Party, for which tickets cost $100 apiece, account for a much smaller percentage of G.M.H.C.'s annual budget of $25 million. But proponents of circuit parties said the case for them transcends the economic vitality of AIDS service organizations that do crucial work.
They said that many gay men attend the events not to indulge chemical or sexual appetites but simply to bask in an environment free of the bigotry they face elsewhere in society. They noted that circuit parties are by no means the exclusive sites of risky behavior, or even the main ones.
Critics counter that circuit parties, with their special patina of glamour, have an impact beyond their perimeters, idealizing dangerous habits in a manner that has particular influence over young gay men.
The experience of Jeffrey W. supports that viewpoint. He said that when he moved to Manhattan after graduating from college a few years ago, "I had no desire to be part of a drug and intense sex culture."
But he said that the conversations of other gay men he met and the glossy ads he spotted in some gay periodicals piqued his curiosity, and even left him with the impression that the circuit scene was the very definition of gay identity.
"I figured if there were 5,000 other men who are considered the upper crust in the gay world doing this, it must be all right and it must be the norm," said Jeffrey, who spoke on the condition that his last name not be used. "I experimented quite heavily with drugs, and I began to be unsafe."
One such moment occurred in December. Several months later, Jeffrey said, he tested positive for H.I.V.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (ORGN) GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (83%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (ORGN) GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (83%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FIRE ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (57%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; HOMOSEXUALITY; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; FINANCES AIDS & HIV (94%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEN (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (89%); PARTY DRUGS (87%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (87%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); FUNDRAISING (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); COCAINE (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); ECSTASY (64%); ARRESTS (50%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



243 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: In Silicon Valley, Big Swings In Share Price Are Ho-Hum

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: MENLO PARK, Calif., Sept. 5

 BODY:
With all due respect to Main Street investors who grew a bit faint when the Dow Jones industrial average plunged 6.4 percent in a day last week, the young workers riding their stock options on Silicon Valley's roller coaster have a message: really, that's nothing.
Here at Onsale Inc., an on-line auction house where, as at many ventures in the Internet field, virtually every employee has a package of stock options that may (or may not) be a big part of the employee's net worth some day, wild swings in the company's stock price go with the territory. 
 Just in the year and a half since the company went public, the stock has been as low as $4.625 a share and as high as $36.8125, with plenty of dips and rises along the way. In the last week alone, it careened from a low of $13.875 to a high of $21, finally closing at $16.75.
"You get used to it after a while," said 30-year-old Jack Herndon, a marketing director at Onsale, a cyberauction house that sells an eclectic array of goods, mainly computer equipment but also items like rattlesnake meat and a human-shaped inflatable rubber device used for boxing practice known as the Slam Man.
"I came here from a company that went from an all-time high to an all-time low in a matter of months," Mr. Herndon said. "One day it went from 42 to 24 overnight, then down to 11. I watched in 36 hours a significant amount of money not yet in my wallet burn before my eyes. It happens."
More than in almost any other industry, stock options have fueled the boom in Silicon Valley and in other regions of the country where high-technology and Internet businesses are congregated, allowing start-up companies to pay smart, ambitious workers a relatively low salary -- along with the promise of great riches if their sweat and creativity help these ventures succeed.
Along the way, that phenomenon seems to have ignited a singular brand of investment psychology that can be gleaned from talks with employees like those at Onsale, each of whom describes his or her own method of coping with the kind of volatility that might turn the stomachs of the most hardened investors.
"Honestly, O.K., I do check the price at least once a day, just to see where it is," said 29-year-old Debbie Rodriguez, a customer service supervisor. "But, I don't calculate what it's all worth when it goes down. I calculate it for its potential, what I think it's really worth because I know how hard everybody at this company is working, and that helps."
And, said Stefanie Elkins, a manager of investor relations, also 29: "The swings are all a part of the gamble, the whole Silicon Valley mentality. I think there's a whole, almost pioneer attitude, especially with Internet companies -- it's, 'Let's try this, let's see if we can get it to work, let's see if we can get it to a point where the stock options are really worth something.' There's a thrill in trying. If it doesn't work, you move on."
Robert Petrossian, a vice president for engineering at Onsale, said short-term swings in the stock market are not the best way to measure the true value of a company in a fast-changing field like the Internet.
"Being human, I do watch the stock price," Mr. Petrossian said. "It's a way to see how other people value your work externally. But I'm at this company for the long term, and I have my own way of valuing the stock. And from day one, in terms of the fundamentals, nothing has changed."
Many employees insisted that stock options were not the main attraction of the company for them.
"The roller coaster is fun and it's interesting, but it's really not the reason I'm here," said John Dean, a 39-year-old vice president in charge of a new division offering travel products, including weekly time-shares in a Mexican beach condominium for which the bidding starts at as low as $9. (Auctions at Onsale are carried on just as at more traditional ones, where bidders raise their hands. In this case, though, bidders click on an icon to bid, or leave secret instructions as to how high they are willing to bid.)
For Mr. Dean, the real thrill comes when he can watch a last-minute bidding war erupt during Onsale's "Going . . . going . . . gone" feature, a fast-paced affair that means fast profits for the company.
"When those bids go up," he said, "it's exciting. It's better than watching the World Series."
Stock options, which essentially represent an agreement by a company to make shares available to an employee for a specified price in the future, can yield great profits when the company's stock soars, or be worth nothing if it plunges. While not commonly offered in many industries, they are virtually standard in places like Silicon Valley.
"The Internet companies have grown up in an environment where this idea is a part of the culture," said Matt Ward, chief executive of Westward Pay Strategies Inc., a San Francisco-based firm that develops incentive compensation packages for many Silicon Valley companies. "I'm not sure you could even get people to work in this field in a situation where you're not giving them a piece of the action."
Said Jerry Kaplan, a founder and chief executive officer of Onsale: "I like to say that Silicon Valley has perfected many of the principles laid out by Karl Marx. In his terms, workers control the means of production. In our terms, every employee is an owner of the company."
For Onsale workers whose options entitle them to buy stocks at just a few dollars a share, the wild price changes of recent weeks could translate into tens of thousands of dollars in lost or gained wealth.
Of course, low-level workers in the 200-employee company have just a fraction of the share options of a founding executive like Mr. Kaplan. Still, with even those employees generally having options on at least a few thousand shares, the potential rewards are great, and many workers here say it builds camaraderie that would not exist if everyone were on straight salary.
The fluctuations in stock price for Onsale are by no means atypical, especially among Internet companies. But partly because stock options take effect over a set period of time, typically four years, worrying over today's price swings is a bit like worrying about the weather. There's no point to jumping out of windows when the stock plunges, or burning $1,000 bills when it soars -- what counts is what the stock will be worth the day an employee sells it.
"Really, you don't hear employees talking a lot about changes in the stock price, and you don't have a lot of people clicking the refresh button on the browser all day to see what the latest trade is," said Diane Hunt, a spokeswoman for Yahoo Inc., the company based in Santa Clara, Calif., that markets a popular Internet search engine.
In the last year, Yahoo stock has swayed from $17.0625 a share to $103.75. But, Ms. Hunt said: "You don't focus on it. Everyone here knows that if you run a good business, with sound fundamentals, and you stick to your plan, the stock price will take care of itself."
Here at Onsale, many people said outside shareholders seemed to be more concerned about stock-price swings than those inside the headquarters, a drab two-story building in an industrial stretch of Menlo Park, where many workers are so busy they lack time to even decorate their office walls.
Anytime the stock drops, said Brian K. Fawkes, vice president for corporate communications: "I get dozens of calls from shareholders, who want to know why is the stock going down and what are you going to do to make it go up? But not once has an employee come to me and asked why."
Both Mr. Fawkes and Mr. Kaplan usually say that such swings are common and that the company and its workers remain focused on long-term growth. Once in a while, though, says the convivial Mr. Kaplan, author of "Start-Up: A Silicon Valley Adventure," a book about a prior, unsuccessful bid of his into pen-based computers, Onsale employees cannot resist offering callers a more basic explanation for why the stock price dropped: "There were more sellers than buyers today."
Onsale is one of the main competitors in the rapidly growing on-line auction field, a sort of cyberbazaar in which visitors to the company's Web site (onsale.com) are offered a chance to bid on items (including, in a recent charity event, a date at Spago's in Los Angeles with Ms. California) while spectators on the site ("lurkers," in company lingo) watch the action. Many buyers type in comments along with their bids. "Stop bidding -- it's refurbished!" and "Please, let me have it -- need to get this for Grandma's birthday" were two recent entries.
While the company is both a pioneer and current leader in on-line auctions, how it will fare in a competitive field where some experts expect annual sales to climb to $1 billion remains unclear. But even that is part of its appeal to employees.
"It just seemed to me like a lot of really exciting things were happening with Internet companies," said Kristin Westland, 29, a human resource manager, who came here two years ago after spending several years as a struggling actress in Los Angeles (she did manage to land a bit part in a "Seinfeld" episode).
"I was very tired of L.A., the insecurity of all that, the multitude of jobs, never knowing if a break was going to happen," she said. So she gave it up for the insecurity and the never knowing if a break is going to happen of Silicon Valley.
Like many workers at the company, Ms. Westland has no children. Even as she described the excitement of trying to help make Onsale a dominant business in the auction field, she paused when asked whether she would feel the same way if she had a family to support.
"Kids?" she said. "I don't know. Wow. You're really mortgaging your future at that point. I don't know. Kids would make it a whole new ball game."
Still, for now, Onsale's employees seem very happy to put in 12- to 14-hour days for a lower salary than they might otherwise get -- as long as they retain the chance to strike it rich down the line.
"When I first came here, I was like, 'Hey! Stock options!" said Ms. Rodriguez, who came to Onsale from a job selling compact disks and videos in a local store. "This is new to me, this is a first. I actually have stock options in something."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Debbie Rodriguez, a customer service supervisor for Onsale, points to a message from a customer while Stefanie Elkins, a manager of investor relations, looks on. Stock fluctuations have become a way of life. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C8)
 
Graph: "Ups and Downs" tracks daily closing stock price of Onsale Inc, and on-line auction house, since July. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ONSL (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ONSALE INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; LABOR; CORPORATIONS STOCK OPTIONS (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); STARTUPS (78%); BONDS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (73%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



244 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Led by Asia, Stocks Abroad Rise Sharply

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 7

 BODY:
Stock markets surged from Singapore to Seoul today in a powerful rally, fueled by a stronger Japanese yen and interventionist government policies in Hong Kong and Malaysia.
The sharpest increases were in Malaysia and Hong Kong, a pattern that dismayed some free-market advocates, since both recently intervened in their markets. In Malaysia, the Government imposed sweeping capital controls. 
 Rather than flee, investors bought heavily. Kuala Lumpur's stock exchange rose a record 23 percent, to 443.59 points. By shielding itself from the global market, Malaysia has been able to lower interest rates, attracting local investors, particularly big pension funds with ties to the Government.
In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index soared 7.9 percent, to 8,076 points, as investors reacted enthusiastically to lower interest rates and new Government measures to police the market more strictly. Those measures came in the aftermath of a $15 billion Government buying spree to prop up shares.
"We've had a technical rebound in these markets," said Miron Mushkat, the director of strategy at Indocam Asia Asset Management. "With the Government policies, there is a greater desire to inject liquidity into the system."
Mr. Mushkat drew a distinction between Malaysia, which has erected a wall around its economy, and Hong Kong, which is trying to take the sting out of its participation in the global economy by supporting its stock market and devising new rules to ward off foreign speculators.
"Malaysia has closed the door; Hong Kong is repainting it," he said.
 In early trading Tuesday, the Hang Seng was up 2.1 percent. Stocks in Malaysia were down 3.8 percent.
Still, in both markets, it is government policy -- rather than underlying optimism about the local or global economy -- that is spurring investors to buy shares. If the Hong Kong and Malaysian markets were functioning freely, interest rates would probably be higher and shares would probably trade low.
"The performance of the markets doesn't alter our uncertainty," said Jan Lee, the chief economist of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, which has been a big target of Hong Kong's buying spree.
In other Asian markets, the reason for today's increase was external -- the strengthening of the Japanese yen relative to the United States dollar. Analysts attributed the increasing value of the yen to speculation that the Federal Reserve Board may cut interest rates in the United States to reduce the risk of a recession. In Malaysia and Hong Kong, however, the increases were driven primarily by local government policies.
Stocks also rose in other markets. In London, the FTSE-100 index closed 3.5 percent higher, a 180-point advance, its second-largest point gain ever. German shares closed about 2 percent higher.
But in Russia, political and financial chaos continued. The Parliament refused to confirm acting premier Viktor Chernomyrdin, the Central Bank president offered to resign and the ruble fell further.
Officials in Hong Kong said today that their three-week-long intervention had succeeded in driving foreign speculators out of their market. The Government had accused the speculators of improperly manipulating Hong Kong's market in an effort to drive down shares and futures contracts. "We made an incursion, and we want to leave as quickly as possible," said Sir Donald Tsang, the financial secretary of Hong Kong. "We are not in the business of making long-term investments in commercial companies."
Although Hong Kong is no longer buying shares, it has opened a new front in its campaign against the speculators. Today, the Government announced a 30-point plan to tighten the securities and futures markets. The new rules would stiffen penalties for violations of securities laws, increase monitoring of short-selling and restrict the lending of shares for the purpose of short-selling.
On Saturday, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority announced a package of seven measures intended to strengthen the link between the Hong Kong dollar and the United States dollar. The highly technical regulations guarantee, among other things, that licensed Hong Kong banks can convert Hong Kong dollars into United States dollars at a fixed exchange rate of $7.75 to $1.
Sir Donald reiterated the Government's pledge to maintain the fixed exchange rate. And he said Hong Kong had no plans to follow Malaysia down the path of capital controls. "We hate to be in the market," he said.
If Hong Kong is still espousing a free-market credo, Malaysia has swung clearly to a government-dictated approach. Analysts said today's increase on the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange was driven by institutional investors with ties to the Government. Foreign investors have effectively been frozen out of the market, since Malaysia's currency, the ringgit, no longer trades outside the country.
Indeed, analysts said another reason for the sharp rise in Malaysia's market was that foreign investors were finding it hard to sell their shares because they could no longer transfer their ringgit holdings out of the country.
The architect of Malaysia's new policy, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, named himself Finance Minister today, less than a week after he dismissed Anwar Ibrahim, his reform-minded protege, who had been both Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Anwar's opposition to closing off Malaysia's market had caused a bitter rift between him and Mr. Mahathir.
As Mr. Mahathir tightens his grip on Malaysia's economy, Mr. Anwar is battling charges of sexual misconduct and treason.
Analysts said that shielding Malaysia from the ravages of the global market could pay short-term dividends. The lower interest rates, in addition to lifting shares, could jump-start Malaysia's stalled economy. And the capital controls will insure that Malaysia does not suffer any more painful devaluations. "If the Malaysian experiment is successful, and other Asian countries are still struggling a year from now, it could lead to some disillusionment with naked capitalism and Anglo-Saxon-style markets," Mr. Mushkat said.
But other analysts warned that economic isolationism may give Malaysia the excuse to put off necessary economic restructuring. That is the same argument critics have used to fault Hong Kong's intervention.
Mark Mobius, the president of the Templeton Emerging Markets Fund, said the fund would no longer invest in either Hong Kong or Malaysia. Mr. Mobius said he was worried that Hong Kong's recent actions raised questions about its commitment to the link between its currency and the United States dollar.
As for Malaysia, Mr. Mobius said the Government's restrictions on taking capital out of the country amounted to a "theft of assets."
"If we allow this kind of thing to spread globally," Mr. Mobius said, "the whole financial system will freeze up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stocks were up yesterday all over Asia, partly in response to strengthening of the Japanese yen against the dollar. On the Tokyo Stock Exchange, a trader reacted to a transaction with applause. (Associated Press)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (81%); HSB (PAR) (81%); HBC (NYSE) (81%); 0005 (HKSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (99%); HONG KONG (98%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (64%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; HONG KONG; MALAYSIA (99%); HONG KONG (98%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (64%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; HANG SENG INDEX (HONG KONG) PUBLIC POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); BONDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



245 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
Parliament Rejects Yeltsin's Choice Again
Russia's Parliament again spurned President Boris N. Yeltsin's choice for Prime Minister, as last-minute negotiations between the Kremlin and the Communist opposition broke down. Mr. Yeltsin signaled that he planned to renominate Viktor S. Chernomyrdin as Prime Minister, demanding a third and final showdown over the appointment. A1
 
Sergei Dubinin resigned as chairman of Russia's central bank, criticizing Parliament's failure to act more quickly to help resuscitate the economy. A12 

Chaos in Cambodian Protest
Cambodia's post-election standoff erupted in turmoil and gunfire as the country's leader, Hun Sen, ordered the arrests of his opponents and security forces fired into crowds of protesters, killing at least one. A3
 
Burmese Political Arrests
Myanmar's military Government reportedly arrested 110 members of the opposition political party led by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. The crackdown had been expected after the party announced last month it would convene the Parliament that was chosen in the 1990 elections. A3
 
Promises on Kosovo Rights
President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia promised to allow the Red Cross to visit detained ethnic Albanian guerrillas in Kosovo Province. Over the weekend, the State Department's top human rights official and former Senator Bob Dole visited Kosovo and issued a stern warning on prisoners and refugees. A5
 
U.S. Reviews Embassy Security
The United States dispatched counterterrorism experts to determine if any of its embassies are so vulnerable that they should be shuttered immediately, officials said. The action came as a result of evidence that terrorists were planning new attacks on American embassies. A6
 
Sign of Hope for Congo
A daylong summit meeting of African leaders seeking to negotiate a Congo peace settlement ended on an optimistic note when the chairman of the group announced that all parties had agreed on their goals for the country. But just how much had been resolved remained unclear. A10
 
Dialogue for Peace in Ireland
Gerry Adams, left, the president of Sinn Fein, the political arm of the overwhelmingly Roman Catholic Irish Republican Army, and David Trimble, the Protestant First Minister of the new provincial Assembly, spoke directly to each other for the first time in a brief, polite dialogue intended to further the peace effort. A9
 
U.N. Presses China on Rights
The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, urged Chinese leaders to sign a key human rights treaty and pledged to improve cooperation with the Chinese Government. She described her trip to China as "an opportunity to begin a serious process of cooperation." (Associated Press)
 
NATIONAL A14-19
 
Clinton's Lawyer Seeks A Look at Starr's Findings
President Clinton's private lawyer asked that Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel, let him review at least a week in advance any report Mr. Starr submits to Congress, in a sign the White House is readying a defense against possible impeachment hearings. The request came with Mr. Clinton facing wrenching decisions about how to reassure Democrats as criticism of his handling of the Lewinsky episode mounts within his own party. A1
 
No Room at the Dorm
Large state universities across the United States are seeing freshman enrollments surge this fall, forcing officials to scramble to find beds, instructors and classrooms. A1
 
Youth Rally in Atlanta
Two days after a rally in Harlem ended in a brief skirmish with the police, black youths in Atlanta staged a sparsely attended but far less tense gathering on the street where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was born and is now entombed. In the days leading up to the event, which was supported by the N.A.A.C.P. and other civil rights groups, organizers took pains to distinguish themselves from the so-called Million Youth March in New York City, a rally that was led on Saturday by Khallid Abdul Muhammad, a divisive figure because of his anti-white and anti-Semitic statements. A14
 
Appeal for Forgiveness
The Rev. Henry J. Lyons, president of the National Baptist Convention U.S.A., one of the nation's largest black denominations, admitted to having had an "improper relationship" with a church worker and asked for the church's forgiveness. Mr. Lyons was indicted on July 2 on Federal charges that included fraud, extortion and tax evasion. A19
 
U.S. May Appeal Land Transfer
The Federal Government is considering an appeal of an order by a Federal judge in Washington to transfer ownership of the western face of Sandia Mountain in New Mexico to Sandia Pueblo, an Indian tribe with 481 enrolled members. The tract, 9,400 acres of wilderness in the Cibola National Forest, is a popular spot for tourists and residents in and around Albuquerque. A14
 
Hospital May Take In Laundry
Veterans Affairs officials in San Antonio, Texas, are looking at ways to sell services -- including taking in laundry -- at two financially strapped agency hospitals, the Audie Murphy Hospital and the Kerrville Medical Center. Ruben Balle, the administrator for the Kerrville center, said he was considering selling laundry services to state and Federal agencies and organizations. The idea reflects difficulties faced by centers nationwide under budget constraints initiated last year. Facing a $6.6 million deficit in a $231 million budget, officials have shut down 82 beds at Audie Murphy and 11 at Kerrville, about 60 miles northwest of San Antonio. (Associated Press)
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Storms Kill at Least 3 Upstate and Around City
Thunderstorms and high winds struck a broad area of upstate New York and the New York City area, battering houses, toppling power lines, capsizing boats and causing at least three deaths. B1
 
Few Teaching Vacancies Left
Board of Education recruiters said that by Friday they had hired 5,249 teachers, leaving only about 200 vacancies in a teaching work force of 72,000 -- a contrast to last year, when schools had nearly 3,000 vacancies the week before they opened. B1
 
Recorder Quit Before Crash
The chief investigator of the Swissair Flight 111 crash said the flight data recorder apparently stopped working about six minutes before the MD-11 plunged into the sea off Nova Scotia on Wednesday night. B6
 
2 Million Watch Parade
About two million people jammed a two-mile route along Eastern Parkway, in Brooklyn's Caribbean heart, for the 31st annual West Indian American Day Carnival Parade, more than the Thanksgiving or St. Patrick's Day parades. B5
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-8
 
Tissue From Flu Victims
Scientists who exhumed several bodies in Norway said they had retrieved tissue samples from the remains that they hoped would provide traces of the mysterious flu virus that killed more than 20 million people worldwide in 1918 and early 1919. They want to learn why the contagion was so much more virulent and lethal than any flu virus before or since. But the scientists were disappointed to discover that the bodies had been buried in shallow graves, not below the permafrost line, which they had thought would have preserved the bodies almost intact. F3
 
HEALTH F7
 
FASHION B12
 
ARTS E1-8
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
McGwire Equals Maris's Mark
Mark McGwire of the St. Louis Cardinals hit his 61st home run of the season in the first inning against the Chicago Cubs, tying the single-season record set by Roger Maris 37 years ago. McGwire's chief rival in the home run contest this year, Sammy Sosa of the Chicago Cubs, who has 58 homers, applauded in right field after McGwire's homer went over the fence in left. A1
 
Sampras and Williams Advance
Pete Sampras shook off a storm delay and beat Marat Safin to move on to the quarterfinals of the United States Open, as did Venus Williams, who defeated Mary Pierce. D2
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-10
 
A Rally in the Far East
Stock markets surged from Singapore to Seoul in a powerful rally fueled by a stronger Japanese yen and interventionist government policies in Hong Kong and Malaysia. The sharpest increases were in Malaysia and Hong Kong, a pattern that dismayed some free-market advocates, since both recently intervened in their markets. In Malaysia, where Kuala Lumpur's stock exchange leaped a record 23 percent, the Government imposed sweeping capital controls. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index soared 7.9 percent. C1
 
Soccer Club's Stock Soars
B Sky B, the British satellite broadcasting unit of Rupert Murdoch, whose Fox TV bought the Los Angeles Dodgers in March and has a stake in the New York Knicks, is aiming at the richest stratum of British soccer with a reported $950 million bid for the fabled Manchester United club. Manchester United stock, listed since 1991, leaped more than one-third in early trading on the London Stock Exchange, adding some $240 million in value. C4
 
Goldman, Sachs in Conference
Goldman, Sachs has told its 11,500 employees worldwide to participate in a conference call this morning in which leaders of the investment firm are expected to discuss the status of Goldman's planned offering of shares to the public, which is scheduled for November. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES A23
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: A nomination for governor; the political crisis in Moscow; reformer spared, for now; Philip M. Boffey on Agent Orange.
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Chess F6
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E6
 
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); MYANMAR (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); IRELAND (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); KOSOVO RIGHTS (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOSOVO RIGHTS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); MYANMAR (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); IRELAND (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TERRORISM (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); REFUGEES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); LAWYERS (65%); RELIGION (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



246 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Three Marketers Select Agencies

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
Three marketers have made decisions on their accounts.
Cars.com, an Internet automotive data base service, named Stein Rogan & Partners in New York as the first agency to handle its on-line and traditional advertising account. Billings were estimated at $26 million for 18 months. Cars.com, a unit of Classified Ventures L.L.C. in Chicago, made the decision without a formal review. 
 Weight Watchers International, a unit of the H. J. Heinz Company in Woodbury, N.Y., named Seiden Group in New York to handle the account of its weight-loss centers, which Seiden had handled on a project basis. Billings were estimated at $25 million. Lowe & Partners/ SMS in New York, which once handled those duties, continues to handle media planning and buying; Lowe is part of the Lowe Group unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
And the Texas Department of Economic Development in Austin selected McCann-Erickson Southwest in Houston to handle its Texas tourism account, which had been handled by GSD&M in Austin for more than a decade. Billings for the five-year contract were estimated at $12 million a year. The decision came after a two-month review that had been narrowed to McCann Southwest, which is part of the McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising unit of Interpublic, and GSD&M, a unit of Omnicom Group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); WTW (NYSE) (83%); HNZ (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS812191 DIET & WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (83%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (83%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (72%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (72%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (72%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (72%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (86%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: CARS.COM (CO); STEIN ROGAN & PARTNERS; WEIGHT WATCHERS INTERNATIONAL INC; SEIDEN GROUP; MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC; GSD&M INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); WEIGHT WATCHERS INTERNATIONAL INC (83%); H J HEINZ CO (72%); CLASSIFIED VENTURES LLC (72%); STEIN ROGAN & PARTNERS (58%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC (56%); SEIDEN GROUP (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: CARS.COM (CO); STEIN ROGAN & PARTNERS; WEIGHT WATCHERS INTERNATIONAL INC; SEIDEN GROUP; MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC; GSD&M SEIDEN GROUP (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (86%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNT CHANGES; ADVERTISING; AUTOMOBILES; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; WEIGHT; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (90%); DIETING (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



247 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Unwinding to a Caribbean Rhythm

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
Normally, Marjorie Smith, 50, is a manager of the administrative staff at the World Bank in Washington, an office where people are not known for excessive dress.
But yesterday Ms. Smith, who was born in Trinidad, got herself into an enormous blue and white feathered costume, had her face painted to match, then danced down Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn. "This is my stress-buster," she said. 
 That seemed to be the theme of the 31st annual West Indian American Day Carnival, a pageant that has surpassed the Thanksgiving and St. Patrick's Day parades as the largest and most elaborate in the city.
Yesterday the two-mile route stretching along Eastern Parkway from Utica Avenue to Grand Army Plaza, in Brooklyn's Caribbean heart, was jammed with revelers. They ate jerk chicken, curried goat and black pudding, dressed up in thongs and as peacocks, and danced to a throbbing calypso beat on trucks advertising Guinness stout and Hennessey cognac. Police last night did not have a firm estimate of how many people attended.
The day was stifling until showers cooled things off. The mood was an island sultriness combined with New York attitude.
"Buy six beers, and I'll get you a free face painting," said a vendor, Jerry Vento, 27, of Canarsie, as a woman passed by.
"Six beers -- you can paint my body, baby," the woman shot back.
The parade is the biggest event of the year for New York's burgeoning West Indian community, whose numbers are estimated at 600,000.
"I wait for this," said Reshonah Bennett, 22, a student at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan. "Fall is coming, so it's like a brand new start."
Ms. Bennett was born in the United States but her parents were born in Trinidad, and yesterday she and four other families from the second floor of her Eastern Parkway apartment building were selling food and drinks along the parade route. They hoped to make $3,000 by 1 A.M.
Dee Baker, 39, of the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, was selling jerk chicken on the parade route for a catering service called Goodies, and dancing at the same time. She came to New York from Jamaica two years ago, and misses home.
"It's not often you get the chance to get the spirit of the old things," she said. "And you can behave in a way that people don't think is strange. It gives us a chance to be Jamaican."
Ms. Baker works part time as a nanny on Long Island, which has made her wonder about why people here work so hard.
"Even though you see the wealth, the people don't act like there's wealth," she said. "People get up in the morning and go to work and then they come home late at night. But at home, we have a life style. You go to work, you leave, and you might call your friends up. We have a lot of entertainment places along the beaches. Or you might meet at a pool. It's definitely less stress."
The usual clutch of politicians made pilgrimages to the parade site. Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn, who is running for the Senate, arrived in a coat and tie, but was later spotted in a "Taste of the Tropics" T-shirt as he waved from the top of a double-decker bus and swayed gingerly to a calypso beat.
Lieut. Gov. Betsy McCaughey Ross, who is running for governor, wore a blue business suit and blue pumps and danced down the street with the Mystic Promise band. "We're teaching her," said Tessa Caesar, 24, a member of the band.
Many things were for sale, like pina coladas served in pineapples with paper parasols, dolls, jewelry and clothes. Among the T-shirt slogans: "When I Die and Heaven Doesn't Want Me, Take Me Straight to Trinidad"; "Trini to the Last Drop," and "Every Sister Should Have a BMW -- Black Man Working!"
The skies above the parade darkened ominously at 2:30 P.M., and soon after that, they opened, sending some people screaming for the subways. Others ran for cover under the nearest food tent, which created some interesting groupings.
Up near the Brooklyn Museum of Art, Patricia Brown found herself covering up the carrot cake she was selling and standing in her tent next to Sonya Smith, 29, a woman who calls up people who have not paid their Bell Atlantic phone bills; Ms. Smith's son, Deshawn, 9; a man without a shirt who would not reveal his name, and a newspaper reporter.
Ms. Brown said she led spiritual and holistic retreats to Jamaica, and loved the West Indian parade.
As it rained, the anonymous man made a garbage bag raincoat for Deshawn, who was cold. "That's $500, custom," the man said. "This is an original. Stop shivering."
Then he inexplicably started haranguing the group about Monica S. Lewinsky. Ms. Smith rolled her eyes. "Wrong event," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Women from Guyana danced in peacock costumes yesterday along Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn in the West Indian American Day Carnival, which has become the city's largest and most elaborate parade. Revelers waved Jamaican flags on a float during yesterday's festivities in Brooklyn. The parade has become the city's more elaborate. (Photographs by Timothy Fadek for The New York Times)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (91%); GUYANA (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (91%); GUYANA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WEST INDIAN-AMERICAN DAY; PARADES PARADES & MARCHES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); THANKSGIVING (70%); CATERING SERVICES (61%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH MARJORIE SMITH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998



248 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1960 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
Waiter, There's an Elbow in My Soup

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov 

 BODY:
"SO, I don't know, what should I tell him?" asked the young woman during dinner at Frank, a crowded little restaurant in the East Village, after telling the sad tale of her unhappy relationship.
I had an opinion about her former boyfriend, but I kept it to myself. After all, I didn't even know her name. I just happened to be sitting at the next table. 
 Short of pointing a telescope through your neighbor's window, few experiences offer better access to the intimate details of strangers' lives than dining in Manhattan restaurants.
Who hasn't had the pleasure of being squeezed onto a narrow banquette where the tables are too close for comfort? Your mind may be on your companion across from you, but you cannot avoid being distracted by the couples sitting on either side. You overhear their conversations, you inhale their perfume, you can almost taste their food. And woe betide you if a cellular phone chirps, as diners dig into their pockets or bags, elbows cocked and ready to do damage.
It is hard to remember, as little as five years ago, dining in such cramped quarters. But today, with rents soaring and restaurants booming, restaurateurs feel justified squeezing in an extra table or two -- even if it means the difference between convivial and claustrophobic. And New Yorkers, who are happy just to get a table in the first place, are putting up with being packed into dining rooms with an almost biological efficiency.
"Well, that's New York," sighed Charles Morris Mount, who has designed restaurants all over the country. "It's the battle of the inch."
Of course, no one accustomed to squeezing into tiny apartments and crowded subways would expect throne-like accommodations in a restaurant. You wouldn't even want them in places like Jean-Claude or Balthazar, bustling French bistros where the tight tables contribute to the air of excitement.
But at restaurants like Frank or Palmetta Plantation House on the Upper East Side, small, inexpensive places where food may be worth the discomfort, the jostling and crowding come dangerously close to ruining the meal.
At the best of Manhattan's midpriced restaurants, from Nick & Toni's Cafe near Lincoln Center to Jo Jo on the Upper East Side to EQ in Greenwich Village, you can expect banged knees and other close encounters.
At EQ, a chic restaurant where tables are placed like puzzle pieces to fit in the tiny dining room, a stout man sitting at the round center table one recent night leaned back in after-dinner repose and was practically in the lap of a diner against the wall.
"The big round table, the dimension was made wrong," Dennis Foy, the chef and co-owner, fumed. "It was supposed to be a 54-inch round, and it's a 60-inch round, which is standard. I lost six inches of floor space, and that infuriated me."
And even though you would expect more luxurious restaurants to be more comfortable, some of the fancier places like Osteria del Circo lack elbowroom.
"The first question a restaurateur asks is, 'How many seats can I put in?' " said Adam Tihany, who designed Osteria del Circo and Le Cirque 2000 and who owns the restaurant Remi. "It's the cost of real estate -- how much money can you squeeze out per square foot?"
Of course, there are other considerations. Like the city's fire and building codes. While the city does not specify the number of people a restaurant can serve, it does require that restaurants maintain clear three-foot corridors leading to exits. The city divides restaurants into two categories, Mr. Tihany said. Those that seat 74 or more people are required to have two exits, with aisles that are clearly identified. Those with fewer than 74 seats don't need two exits but still must have unobstructed aisles.
Before a restaurant opens, it presents its plan for approval to the city's Buildings Department and Fire Department. Once approved, said Vincent Falcone, a fire protection plan examiner in the Fire Department, further inspections are rare, usually only when somebody complains.
"They don't check to see if tables have enough distance," Mr. Tihany said. "They don't care if the operator crams people in, as long as there is a way to get out in case of emergency."
While that probably is small comfort to diners, it is a good thing for restaurant owners, because economics often dictates the need for a higher seating capacity. As uncomfortable as crowded restaurants may be, they ultimately indicate a healthy industry and a healthy economy. Where were the crowds 10 years ago, after the 1987 stock market crash, when restaurant after restaurant went under?
And though there are no figures for restaurants alone, Garrick-Aug Associates, an agency that specializes in store leasing, reported that the average retail rent -- including restaurants -- has risen steadily over the last two years, to $66 a square foot from $51, while the availability of space has dropped. "Obviously, the higher the rent, you either have to serve more meals or raise prices," Mr. Tihany said. "If the market won't bear higher prices, you have to add more people."
This is especially true of smaller, less-known restaurants, which, without advertising or high profile, must create a buzz to attract more customers. Nothing brings in more people like a crowd.
"Activity is a key to more activity," Alan Mannarelli, who builds and finances downtown restaurants, said. "Other than Chanterelle, who doesn't cram in as many tables as they can?"
Certainly, Frank cannot be accused of neglecting even the littlest nook or cranny in squeezing 32 seats into its tiny, 310-square-foot space. You had better be prepared to enjoy your neighbor's conversation along with your insalata Caprese, or you won't enjoy Frank.
"We wanted to create an intimacy," said Roy Docouto, who built Frank with the owner, Frank Prisinzano. "At other places, you're alone at your table. We wanted people to feel as if they were sitting at the same table together. Strangers have become friends here. It promotes a sense of, 'Say hello to your neighbors.' "
In other words, Frank is making a virtue of necessity. But others do the same by design.
"There's a certain energy to a dining room, and if tables get too far apart, they lose that energy," said David Rockwell, a designer, whose restaurants include Nobu and Payard Patisserie and Bistro. At Payard, for example, the three dining areas have distinct seating schemes: Tiny cafe tables and hard chairs packed into the bakery area, intended for quick bites; a bistro area, with larger tables, that is lively but cramped and noisy, and a more spacious, sedate area on the mezzanine.
"What is a restaurant's concept?" Mr. Tihany asked. "Is it an urban bistro? Four-star dining? Relaxed trattoria? Each of these concepts has a certain energy that dictates the seating."
While New York restaurateurs -- at all levels -- usually have more ambition than space, this problem can inspire creative solutions. EQ is almost a textbook example of a small downtown restaurant making the best of a tight space. Mr. Foy also designed the dining room, which needed to seat around 40 people in 400 square feet. EQ's wide chairs, with their fawn-colored leather seats, are roomy and luxurious, and the lighting is warm and inviting, showing off the fish motif of the cloth banquettes and the subtle pattern of the carpet. But even the finest materials could not extend the dimensions of the room.
"I realized that I had to use every square inch," Mr. Foy said.
In fact, the rectangular dining room, broken up only by a small bar near the entrance, feels comfortable, though not quite spacious. But maintaining that level of comfort requires the stars, and the diners, to align perfectly. For example, the banquette along one wall seats 20 people. Banquette tables generally accommodate groups of two and four. Two tables for two eat up more space than one table for four because the tables must be separated.
EQ tries to leave about 18 inches between banquette tables, said its architect, Vincenzo Fressola, roomier than the 6 inches typical of bistros but not quite the 2 feet of luxury restaurants.
Sometimes, though, fate intervenes, as it did recently when every table was occupied by a couple. Handbags banged into water glasses, and it took real maneuvering to get out of the banquette to go to the restroom.
Opposite the banquette and between the bar and the kitchen is a cozy alcove that seats 10 along three walls, with a table for six in the middle of the floor. With each table occupied, a waiter reciting specials to one must do an intricate pas de deux with another waiter who arrives with food for the neighboring table. Their practiced steps allow them to stay out of one another's way, but trying to follow the waiter's recitation as he dances back and forth is dizzying.
Designers, Mr. Tihany said, begin planning a layout by deciding on the size of the tables for two. Typically, he said, these are 24 inches wide by 27 inches deep in a bistro or trattoria, and 32 inches wide by 36 inches deep in a luxury restaurant.
Fancier restaurants generally require bigger tables for the simple reason that they have more stuff to fit on their thick white tablecloths. You may have no use for a fish fork, but there it is, along with a battalion of wine glasses, butter knives and bread plates, to say nothing of cellular phones and, of course, the check. A simpler restaurant doesn't need to accommodate so much equipment. Bread can sit on the table rather than on its own plate; the same forks can be used for salad and steak.
Oversize plates, made so popular in the nouvelle cuisine days, are another enemy of tiny tables, but chefs still seem too willing to sacrifice table space so they can display their artistic squiggles of sauce and tossed herbs. Needless to say, simple arithmetic makes clear that 12-inch luxury plates, to say nothing of the 14-inch monsters, create a logjam on the tables of a bistro.
No matter how carefully the tables and layout are planned, the restaurant experience still depends on the characteristics of a space. Osteria del Circo, which is run by the three sons of Sirio Maccioni, the owner of Le Cirque 2000, is pretty tightly packed. "The kids liked it tight," Mr. Tihany, the designer, said. "They wanted to feel the energy."
When the dining room is half empty, it can be low-key and pleasant, but as the room gets crowded and the energy bubbles, the high ceilings seem to throw sound back toward the floor, making conversations at nearby tables easier to hear than your own.
By contrast, the new Le Cirque 2000 is more spacious than the notoriously tight original, but it, too, can feel cramped, especially when a series of couples sit elbow to elbow along the banquette in the rear room near the kitchen.
If highly designed restaurants like Le Cirque and Circo represent one typical New York experience, the tiny restaurants that line Cornelia Street in Greenwich Village are another. On a recent Saturday night, restaurants like Le Gigot, Pearl Oyster Bar, Little Havana, Home and Po seemed as crowded as the left-field stands with Mark McGwire at the plate. In these tiny dining rooms, designers have little flexibility.
"You take the architectural formulas, and you divide by 4, and you have the room available to us," said David Page, an owner of Home, a stylish little American restaurant. "The ambiance created by the coziness of the space is somehow related to its success."
Home can seat 32 people at the handmade varnished wood tables in its dining room -- make that 32 average-size people.
"We made the booths as big as possible, given the space we had," Mr. Page said. "But if your waist line is bigger than, say, 40 inches, it's impossible."

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE BIG SQUEEZE -- At Frank, above, a homey restaurant in the East Village, the tiny space creates an instant intimacy among diners at 32 seats. The stylish Osteria del Circo in midtown, top, was designed so that the tight quarters created energy in the room. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE GRAVY KIND -- For waiters at Frank, a restaurant on Second Avenue, serving customers without spilling food requires a special balancing act. EVERY INCH COUNTS -- At the EQ restaurant in Greenwich Village, tables in a tiny room fit side by side like pieces in a puzzle. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FIRE DEPARTMENT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRE DEPARTMENT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); 

PERSON: ASIMOV, ERIC ADAM TIHANY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



249 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
That old American Express standby, the check, will soon be out in that new currency, the euro.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell 

 BODY:
AMERICAN EXPRESS said yesterday that it would print euro-denominated traveler's checks in time for sales to start on Jan. 1, 1999, the beginning of the European Monetary Union. While the euro becomes the official currency of the 11-nation euro-zone next Jan. 1, with national currency exchange rates fixed to the euro, the circulation of euro notes and coins will not begin until Jan. 1, 2002.
During the three-year transition, consumers will be able to use the American Express euro traveler's checks -- in denominations of 50, 100 and 200 euro -- to pay for goods and services while merchants begin to convert to euro pricing. 
 "We expect the euro-denominated traveler's checks to be accepted by local merchants as soon as they begin pricing their products in euros," said Victoria Handwerk, an American Express spokeswoman. "But during the transition, American Express traveler's checks, as always, can be cashed for local currency if desired at our travel service offices within the euro-zone."
She also said the euro traveler's checks would enable purchasers to travel anywhere in the euro-zone without having to worry about multiple currencies. The euro-zone countries are Germany, France, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Austria, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Finland.
The new traveler's checks will have a pastel-colored world map on the front and acceptance instructions in English, French and German on the back. They will include security features like those on dollar-denominated checks.
The euro-denominated checks will be available worldwide beginning Jan. 1, 1999, at American Express travel service offices, at some financial institutions, exchange bureaus and travel agencies, including the American and Canadian Automobile Associations. In the United States, American Express card holders will be able to order the euro checks by telephone (800 221-7282) for delivery by mail after the new year.
During the transition, American Express traveler's checks will also be available in local currencies, and will be valid indefinitely. But national currencies and national-currency traveler's checks will not be sold after June 30, 2002, when the euro will become the only legal currency used in the participating countries.
 
Coping With the Strike
While the strike against Northwest Airlines continues to inconvenience travelers in the Midwest, business travelers appear to be taking it more or less in stride. A survey conducted last Wednesday through Friday among corporate travel managers by the National Business Travel Association found that 63 percent of those surveyed had been affected by the strike, but that more than 77 percent had rebooked on other major carriers in anticipation of the strike.
Moreover, 22 percent of corporate travel managers surveyed said that during the strike they had turned to low-fare carriers, niche carriers or new-entrant carriers. And of those, more than 65 percent said they would consider moving the rebooked travel permanently to alternate carriers.
By the way, 57 percent of the travel managers do not want President Clinton to intervene formally in the strike.

No-Paper Ticketing Abroad
Over the next three months United Airlines, part of the UAL Corporation, plans to extend its electronic ticketing service to Singapore; three cities in China (Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong); Belgium; France; Germany; Italy, and the Netherlands. The addition of those 7 nations will bring to 12 the number of foreign countries using United E-mail. Australia, Canada, Japan and New Zealand were added this year, while Britain was put on line last October.
United said that the use of its E-tickets, which allow passengers to board planes without paper tickets, reached an all-time industry high of 3.4 million last month. During that month, 56 percent of eligible itineraries were ticketed electronically, an increase of almost 11 percent over August 1997.
Airlines are reluctant to disclose the exact amount of money they save with E-tickets compared with paper tickets, because estimated savings per E-ticket range all over the tarmac. But it is generally believed that the major airlines save about $10 million a month each, which of course explains their eagerness to expand electronic ticketing as far and as fast as possible. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ;BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (90%); DAL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (66%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); BENELUX (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); PORTUGAL (58%); FINLAND (58%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMISSION; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSN; UNITED AIRLINES AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICES (66%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSN; UNITED AIRLINES NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); BENELUX (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); PORTUGAL (58%); FINLAND (58%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVELERS CHECKS; CURRENCY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STRIKES; LABOR; ELECTRONIC MAIL EURO (93%); CURRENCIES (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (92%); EURO ZONE (91%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); AIRLINES (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); CREDIT CARDS (79%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); AIR SERVICE (66%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



250 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing in U.S. Surged in July

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8

 BODY:
Borrowing by United States consumers grew at a faster-than-expected pace in July as auto and other personal loans surged, offsetting a drop in credit card debt, Federal Reserve figures showed today.
Borrowing rose by $5.3 billion for the month, to $1.266 trillion, after rising a revised $8.8 billion during June. Previously, the Fed said June borrowing had increased $6.7 billion. Before today's report, analysts had expected an increase of $3 billion for July. Economists watch the Fed's consumer credit statistics because it helps them gauge changes in consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of overall economic activity. 
 "Consumer credit has been posting modest gains in recent months, consistent with the conflicting forces of consumer optimism and still high credit card debt levels," said Greg Jones, an economist at Briefing.com in Jackson Hole, Wyo.
Revolving loans, which include credit card borrowing, fell $2.1 billion in July after rising $4.2 billion in June. Auto loans rose $3.5 billion after increasing $2.9 billion.
The pace of consumer credit was rising at a 5 percent annual rate during July, the Fed said. That is down from the 8.4 percent pace of borrowing in June. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BRIEFING.COM (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CREDIT; CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



251 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Merrill Lynch's Overseas Loss Is $135 Million

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
Merrill Lynch & Company said yesterday that it lost $135 million in July and August from its business with Russia and other emerging markets, and was now preparing to cut costs after the recent turmoil in financial markets.
The losses are expected to reduce the brokerage firm's net income for July and August to an estimated $102 million, according to Merrill, which made its announcement after the stock market closed. In the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 1997, Merrill earned $493 million. 
 Merrill has never before made such an interim announcement of its earnings, David H. Komansky, its chairman and chief executive, said in an interview yesterday.
A succession of other big American and European financial companies, including Citicorp, Bank of America, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company and the Bankers Trust Corporation, have announced hundreds of millions of dollars of losses in the last two weeks after Russia effectively defaulted on some debt, sending prices tumbling for the securities of developing nations and causing interest margins to widen rapidly for less creditworthy borrowers around the world.
The sudden reversal of fortune for financial services companies, some of the most successful companies of recent years, has been stunning. "It's impressive that so many big and smart institutions were on the wrong side of this trade," said John Keefe, president of Keefe Worldwide, a financial services consulting firm.
Spokesmen for Merrill have said often in the last couple of weeks that their company did not report financial results "intra-quarter," implying that it would wait until it announced its results for the three months ended Sept. 30 before disclosing its losses from Russia and other emerging markets.
Merrill said yesterday that it was making an exception to this policy "because of the intensive public focus on deteriorating conditions in the emerging markets, and the fact that most major international financial institutions have made some form of disclosure."
Merrill said that the emerging markets' losses it announced yesterday included the cost of marking down its inventories of securities to market value, allowances for its own exposure to third parties with losses in emerging markets and losses from its own trading. Merrill said that its cash earnings in July and August -- excluding the effect of good will, most of it from its recent $5.3 billion acquisition of Mercury Asset Management, the British money manager -- totaled $138 million.
Merrill's top executives declined to specify what expenses, or how much, they might seek to cut. "We're reviewing our alternatives now," Mr. Komansky said. "Discretionary spending, what can be eliminated, what can be deferred. We have a wide range of alternatives. How quickly to expand. We are in the midst of evaluating all that."
Guy Moszkowski, a managing director and brokerage analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, a subsidiary of the Travelers Group, said: "They clearly had, as they said, $135 million of emerging markets fixed-income trading losses in the quarter. But it's also clear from their other remarks that in order to get to only $100 million or so of profits for July and August there must be substantial additional losses with other credit-oriented bond products.
"This was a very unusual series of events in the credit markets," Mr. Moszkowski added. "But there will be some questioning of their credit controls."
Some other firms, including Salomon Smith Barney and Bankers Trust have reported worse losses than Merrill. "It's obviously not good news, but considering what some others have reported it could have been worse," Raphael Soifer, an analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (97%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (97%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (97%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (97%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (97%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (97%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (51%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (97%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); BANKERS TRUST CORP (69%); MERCURY ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC (51%); MERCURY ASSET MANAGEMENT HOLDINGS LTD (51%); MERCURY ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP SERVICES LTD (51%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BONDS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER; KOMANSKY, DAVID H MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



252 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Nikos Kefalidis, 55, a Real Estate Developer

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
Nikos Kefalidis, a real estate developer and founder of KLM Construction Inc., was among the 229 passengers who died on Swissair Flight 111 when it plunged into the sea off Peggy's Cove, Nova Scotia, last Wednesday. He was 55 and lived in Manhattan.
Mr. Kefalidis (pronounced keff-a-LEE-deez) had been on the flight en route to Istanbul for the wedding of a boyhood classmate. 
 He was reared in humble circumstances in the Greek town of Alexandroupolis, near the Turkish border. His ancestors were Greek refugees from the Pontos region near the Black Sea in Russia.
At age 9, he was sent on a scholarship to Anavryta College, a boarding school near Athens, and he later studied at the University of Athens, where he received a degree in economics. He came to the United States in 1970.
"One of the only jobs he could get was as a house painter," said Grant Ruthizer, a vice president of KLM Construction Inc., and of Beta Steel, a privately owned steel mill in Portage, Ind., that Mr. Kefalidis helped found. "Then he moved from being a painter to establishing his own painting company and from that to general contracting and property development. He built several thousand residential apartments in Brooklyn and Manhattan."
There are now some 20 projects in the company's pipeline, Mr. Ruthizer said, including the construction of an 80,000-square-foot Old Navy store on a lot Mr. Kefalidis owned opposite Macy's on West 34th Street in Manhattan.
In June, despite some vocal opposition, Community Board 1 in Queens voted to approve a zoning change that would permit his firm to convert an old Steinway piano factory in Astoria into a $30 million project that would include 142 assisted living units for the elderly and 163 apartments.
Mr. Kefalidis was also involved in the development of Showboat Casino, a riverboat complex in East Chicago, Ind. "He had a passion for the deal and for negotiating, and he loved property," Mr. Ruthizer said.
In 1986, Mr. Kefalidis and a partner bought the village hall of Bellport on Long Island, only hours after they had first laid eyes on it. Asked what had prompted the purchase, he said: "I saw an ad this morning that the building was for sale. We decided to come out and bid on it. We'll rent it out."
He was also a leader in numerous political, civic and religious organizations and became a member of the Democratic National Committee in 1994. He was vice president of the board of the Archdiocesan Cathedral of the Holy Trinity on the Upper East Side and on the Archdiocesan Council of the Greek Orthodox Church in the Americas.
"He treated everyone with the same deference and affection, from bricklayer to head of government," said Toli Fliakos, a vice president and assistant chairman of Beta Steel, in whose wedding Mr. Kefalidis had served as best man.
"He once noticed that something seemed to be bothering one of his employees," Mr. Fliakos recalled. "He dragged it out of the man, and it turned out that he was concerned about not having enough money to pay his daughter's private school tuition. Nikos said, 'Is that the problem? Go to the office and get a check tomorrow.' He did things like that all the time."
President Clinton sent a message of condolence to a memorial service for Mr. Kefalidis that was led last night at the cathedral by Archbishop Iakovos, the former Primate of the Greek Orthodox Church of North and South America.
Mr. Kefalidis is survived by his wife of 18 years, Laurie Doane Kefalidis, and their three children, Melanie, 17, Elias, 14, and Marisa, 8, all of Manhattan; his parents, Symeon and Kerasia Kefalidis of Alexandroupolis; a brother, Chrysanthos Kefalidis of Athens, and a sister, Efthimia Melidis of Alexandroupolis.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nikos Kefalidis. (National Herald) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: AKH (NYSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (93%); CANADA (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (88%); 

COMPANY: SWISSAIR DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWISSAIR

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (93%); CANADA (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (88%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); REAL ESTATE (92%); AIRLINES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ZONING (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); REFUGEES (71%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (69%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (67%); MASONRY CONTRACTORS (66%); APPROVALS (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (63%); RELIGION (63%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: KEFALIDIS, NIKOS; BROZAN, NADINE LAURIE DOANE KEFALIDIS (95%); NIKOS KEFALIDIS (67%); GRANT RUTHIZER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



253 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE CAMPAIGNS;
A Leading Democrat's Theme: It's a Long, Long Time From Now Till November

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: DALLAS, Sept. 7

 BODY:
Representative Martin Frost, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, finds himself facing two months of campaigning over uncertain ground for a party whose leader is up to his eyeballs in scandal.
"All I can say is that the situation is impossible to gauge," said Mr. Frost, a 10-term Congressman. "We'll know a lot more in the next couple of weeks. But I think it's going to be a very late-developing election." 
 His main sources of solace, he says, are that he thinks the Democrats still have several shots at wresting seats from Republicans, that campaign fund-raising does not seem to have been affected by the scandal and that the ground is just as uncertain for his opponents, who must guard against appearing to place partisanship above statesmanship.
The calls Mr. Frost has been getting in recent days from nervous and excited candidates have tended to fall into two categories, he said.
"Incumbents are concerned about what's going to happen in the next month, with the release of Ken Starr's report and what Congress might do about it," he said. "The new candidates, who are just trying to get into office, want to talk about the issues we've developed and how they're resonating in the campaign."
Mr. Frost, a lawyer and former journalist who represents the heavily black and Hispanic neighborhoods of south Dallas and south Fort Worth along with a bunch of white suburbs in between, said he had better answers for the newcomers than for the incumbents.
"The reality is that you can't tell at this point what's going to happen in the next month," he said. "And I don't know -- nobody knows -- how the people are going to respond to whatever comes out."
Not long ago, many Democrats were predicting that the strong national economy combined with widespread disapproval of Mr. Starr's approach to his investigation of President Clinton would redound in the party's favor, helping win back a few more of the seats that were lost in the conservative Republican landslide of 1994. Democrats even harbored hopes of retaking control of the House, where a net gain of only 11 seats would restore their majority.
Mr. Frost says that his position throughout the year has been that the Democrats stand a 50-50 chance of winning back House control, and that he sees nothing as yet to cause that outlook to change. But voicing optimism is part of Mr. Frost's job as head of the party's Congressional campaign effort, and even he is not immune to the unease that is growing among Democrats with Mr. Starr's report to Congress expected as early as this week.
"The question is whether Democrats will turn out in November," Mr. Frost said. "Most people's view about the Clinton investigation seems to be, Can't we get this behind us, can't we get this over with? People are just turned off politics. Thus, it becomes an issue of which side can get its base into the voting booth."
He rattled off the uncertainties: How much of the Starr report will be made fully public? Will Congressional impeachment hearings be held, and, if so, will they begin before or after November? What further sordid details might come out? Will the President say more than he already has? And, most perplexing of all in a climate where the President's job approval ratings have remained high despite all the disclosures, will any of it make the slightest difference to voters?
"There's no way to tell how it's going to go," Mr. Frost said.
For Labor Day, Mr. Frost's staff had him on a busy campaign kickoff in and around his home district: a breakfast with labor leaders at a downtown Dallas hotel, a barbecue lunch with an auditorium full of workers at a union hall in a suburb north of Fort Worth, then a sun-baked picnic in a wooded area called Flagpole Hill in the urban sprawl of northeast Dallas.
As in most political circles, the fallout from the President's troubles was a matter of much debate. Former Speaker Jim Wright, who for 35 years represented the Fort Worth district where the union hall is situated, was knocking back a plate of barbecue on the other side of the hall while Mr. Frost worked the room.
"I'll tell you, the situation is so volatile it's hard to make an intelligent judgment," said Mr. Wright, who resigned from the Speakership and from Congress while under fire over ethics in 1989. "I don't think I've ever seen a situation quite like this one."
In one measure of the President's political health, Mr. Frost asserted that requests from candidates for Mr. Clinton to visit their districts had held fairly steady: some candidates want him to come, some do not. It depends on the district and the dynamics of the race.
The Democrats' Congressional campaign committee is in the midst of a series of joint fund-raising events with the party's Senate campaign committee and the Democratic National Committee; the next one is planned for next Monday in New York. That event had a goal of $3 million, but some $3.2 million has already been raised for it, Mr. Frost said, leading some to predict that as much as $3.5 million will eventually come in.
And Mr. Frost said his reports from the field showed that those Republican seats the Democrats believe they have the strongest chance of winning continued to be within reach.
"We've been fortunate in several instances that Republicans who got elected in 1994 promising to abide by six-year term limits are now just two years away from when they'd either have to drop out or break their promise," he said. "So some of them are leaving early to run for another office, opening up some promising opportunities for us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Martin Frost at a union's Labor Day barbecue in a Fort Worth suburb. (Mark Graham for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (54%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); 

PERSON: FROST, MARTIN (REPR); LYMAN, RICK; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



254 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1807 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Panacea Turns Patient;
H.M.O's Now Must Treat Their Own Ills

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:
Like thousands of other elderly Americans, Eugene DeLorenzo cannot find a Medicare health maintenance organization in his area.
Mr. DeLorenzo, a 75-year-old retired real estate broker and his wife, Yuriko, enrolled July 1 in the Medicare plan of Healthnet, a unit of Foundation Health Systems Inc. Just three weeks later, Healthnet, unable to make a strong profit in the rural Northern California county where Mr. DeLorenzo lives, said it was ending its coverage there. 
 "My first thought was, 'Well, what are we going to do now?' " Mr. DeLorenzo recalled. "It wasn't going to do any good to get angry. That's just the way these H.M.O.'s operate."
With few options, the DeLorenzos enrolled in traditional fee-for-service Medicare, the federally financed health care plan for the disabled and people 65 or older. They may also have to pay hundreds of dollars more in premiums for a supplemental policy to replace the generous benefits Healthnet had offered.
People like the DeLorenzos are fast becoming common statistics. After aggressively recruiting the elderly and the disabled into their Medicare plans, many of the nation's H.M.O.'s are now heavily retreating.
The United Healthcare Corporation, once a darling of Wall Street, recently took a $900 million charge against earnings, in part to scale back its Medicare operations in 35 counties. In the last year, Aetna, Pacificare Health Systems, Oxford Health Plans, Foundation Health Systems, Kaiser Permanente and Blue Cross and Blue Shield associations have canceled Medicare plans in parts of 13 states. Virtually no Medicare H.M.O.'s are available in Utah or in rural Ohio.
With Medicare costs escalating wildly, Congress has long looked to managed-care plans as the prime remedy. Introduced in 1985 to allow private insurers to cover the elderly, Medicare H.M.O.'s provide health care more cheaply than the Government does. They also tend to offer more benefits to consumers and reduce the amount of claims paperwork.
Despite the H.M.O. problems in the Medicare market, Washington is now pushing for even more people to enroll in the plans. Yet financial setbacks for some H.M.O.'s have raised serious questions as to whether they can prosper covering Medicare patients. Though critics of managed care are quick to say they cannot, analysts say that several H.M.O.'s -- namely Humana Inc. and Pacificare, two of the nation's largest Medicare providers -- are making money on their plans, at least for now. But even these companies have had to make adjustments.
"There are a few H.M.O.'s that can be successful with Medicare, and they should prosper," said Kenneth S. Abramowitz, a health care analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. Still, he added, "some of these earnings charges related to Medicare, United Healthcare's for example, show just how difficult this business is."
Several problems have bedeviled Medicare H.M.O.'s. For one thing, only 15.6 percent of Medicare's 37.5 million members are enrolled in Medicare H.M.O.'s.
Though the Government says it has overpaid the Medicare H.M.O.'s, the companies say the Federal monthly stipend for each enrollee is not enough to provide extensive benefits. That is especially problematic in rural areas, where Medicare H.M.O.'s cannot enroll enough members to negotiate discounts with local health care providers.
As a result, analysts say, H.M.O.'s must focus primarily on urban markets and must avoid offering generous prescription drug plans, which can attract a disproportionate number of sickly people.
While Medicare has long been a perilous market for many H.M.O.'s, it may soon get even tougher. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 will reduce the Government's Medicare spending by $115 billion over the next five years. Increases in the monthly stipends the Government pays to H.M.O.'s have been sharply reduced, a move that could further lower operating margins, which have always been thin and now hover around 3 percent.
Managed-care companies receive some $5,688 annually on average for each of their Medicare patients, according to the Health Care Financing Administration, which runs Medicare.
Uncle Sam's stipend comes with strings attached. The H.M.O.'s usually agree to provide more benefits than traditional Medicare does -- allowances for prescription drugs, hearing aids and eyeglasses. And they accept the premise that they can make profits by controlling costs better than the Government can.
A key to a healthy bottom line is to avoid a large percentage of sick patients, which can quickly devour revenues. The odds appear to be in the Medicare health maintenance organizations' favor: 90 percent of all Medicare enrollees are generally healthy and require only about $1,200 on average from the Government each year for medical bills, according to the Urban Institute's analysis of the 1996 Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey, the latest figures available. In contrast, the analysis found, the remaining 10 percent, who are sick, cost Medicare some $37,000 a year each.
The trouble is that in metropolitan markets with several competing Medicare plans, H.M.O.'s used prescription drug benefits to entice elderly members and ended up subsidizing lofty prescription drug bills. Moreover, the H.M.O.'s can end their exposure to ailing members only by leaving a county altogether, not by dropping coverage of individuals.
Humana and Pacificare have hedged the likelihood of losses by contracting with doctors to accept a fixed monthly payment for each member, regardless how much medical care that person may need. The policy, called capitation, pushes the financial risk onto the doctor to keep medical costs down.
Humana had 60 percent of its Medicare members in capitation arrangements at the end of the second quarter, aiming to increase the figure to 70 percent by the end of the year. Capitation paid the company big dividends. Revenues from Medicare H.M.O.'s accounted for half of the total earnings at Humana last year.
"Capitation is a great way to share the risk and to control costs," said Arun Kumar, a director at Standard & Poor's. "It works best with populations who are sophisticated about managed care. You see a lot of capitation on the West Coast. It's unlikely to be used on the East Coast, partly because there are a large number of specialists who don't want to share the risk."
To be profitable with their Medicare plans, H.M.O.'s may have little choice but to establish capitation policies wherever they can. Before the Balanced Budget Act, it was common for the Government to give H.M.O.'s annual stipend increases of 10 percent in some counties, a sum that many complained was too little. The increase has now been reduced to about 2 percent.
With a rise that slim -- it is less than half the national medical cost inflation rate -- some H.M.O.'s will have to renegotiate rates with health care providers. But the industry has other troubles. Although the Balanced Budget Act gradually raises the stipend H.M.O.'s receive for rural counties, critics doubt that the increase will be enough. Rural areas often have only one hospital, which has no incentive to lower its rates.
"In some rural areas, there is just not enough of a premium to cover the costs," said Lee N. Newcomer, medical director at United Healthcare. "A lot of people who live in a rural area drive into the city for medical treatment. They incur a city cost while we get paid the rural premium."
H.M.O.'s have also struggled to control their administration fees. Medicare plans, which must be sold in person, are more expensive than traditional commercial accounts, which may be pitched by telephone. Elderly people like to meet with company representatives, and they prefer seeing the plans' benefits and costs displayed in writing.
Analysts say that to survive, Medicare H.M.O.'s must cut back on benefits, a process that has riled consumers. According to Mr. Abramowitz of Sanford C. Bernstein, most H.M.O.'s are giving each Medicare enrollee $1,000 in benefits beyond basic hospital coverage but can afford only $750.
The cutbacks have already begun, and the most expensive perks are the first to go. In nearly every market where H.M.O.'s have slashed their offerings, this has has meant tossing out the prescription drug plan.
"I signed up for Secure Horizons because they had a good prescription drug plan," said Hollie Vinson, 43, who is disabled and lives in Chico, Calif. "Shortly after that, they discontinued the plan."
"I've had to go out and get my own drug plan," she added, "and it costs more than before."
Secure Horizons, Ms. Vinson's Medicare H.M.O., is a unit of Pacificare, one of California's biggest managed-care companies. Pacificare's cuts went a lot further elsewhere: The company ended its Medicare coverage in Utah and in parts of Washington and Oregon because of thin operating margins.
Market woes are so severe that experts wonder if any Medicare H.M.O. can prosper indefinitely.
Consumer groups say a financially sound Medicare H.M.O. may be a horror to its members. Opponents of capitation contend that the policy prompts too many doctors to choose costs over sound health care, saving nickels by canceling tests that are necessary.
Analysts question the effectiveness of the Government's efforts to lure more people into managed care. Under the Balanced Budget Act, those 65 and over can sign up beginning next year for preferred provider organizations, a network of doctors and hospitals that accepts Government payments for Medicare patients, or for a provider-sponsored organization, a network that is usually owned by the providers.
These plans could help Medicare H.M.O.'s by introducing more elderly people to managed care. But an efficient provider-sponsored group can also steal healthy members from a Medicare H.M.O. in its county.
So far, few providers are offering one of the new plans, leaving many experts to question their viability.
Consumer advocates say these new plans could be slow sellers, given the snail's pace at which Americans have embraced Medicare H.M.O.'s. Thirteen states have no Medicare H.M.O. plans at all, and even areas that have usually welcomed new types of health care remain stubbornly suspicious. Arizona and California have among the highest percentages of Medicare enrollment, at 39 percent each, but only 18 percent of New York's 2.6 million Medicare members are enrolled in H.M.O.'s and the penetration in Wisconsin is only 3 percent.
"Giving H.M.O. companies the opportunity to offer more Medicare plans is only going to make matters worse," said Bonnie Burns, a health care consultant in Scotts Valley, Calif. "They will keep the plans that are in profitable areas and drop the others that are not. Some people in some cities will have six plans while people in other cities will have none."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eugene and Yuriko DeLorenzo of Chico, Calif., have been left H.M.O.-less. (Brian Fann for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "No Easy Way Out"
Once billed as a money-saving remedy for Medicare's escalating costs, coverage of the elderly by health maintenance organizations is now being cut back because of financial setbacks and unexpected costs.
 
BECAUSE IT IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT MEDICARE COSTS . . .
 
1996 Estimated Medicare Expenditures
Average cost for treating 90 percent of Medicare patients -- $1,200
Cost for treating the 10 percent of patients who are the most ill -- $37,000
 
. . . THERE IS SPOTTY AVAILABILITY AND LIMITED CHOICE . . .
 
Percentage of people in Medicare who are in H.M.O.'s
South Carolina -- 0%
Indiana -- 1%
Kentucky -- 2%
Wisconsin -- 3%
Alabama -- 7%
Minnesota -- 9%
Ohio -- 15%
New York -- 18%
California -- 39%
National average -- 15.6%
 
. . . AND SEVERAL H.M.O.'S HAVE CUT MEDICARE SERVICES . . .
 Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield pulled its Medicare services out of 19 Ohio counties this year.
 Healthnet of California said it would end its H.M.O. services in 10 counties.
 United Healthcare of Minnesota recently took a $900 million charge in part to realign its Medicare business.
 Oxford Health Plans of Connecticut told doctors and hospitals that it would be setting caps for reimbursements for treating Medicare patients.
 Aetna U.S. Healthcare trimmed Medicare benefits this year and said it might cut more.
 
(Sources: The Urban Institute; Health Care Financing Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 105 P.L. 33 BALANCED BUDGET ACT OF 1997 (83%); 

TICKER: HNT (NYSE) (84%); UNH (NYSE) (82%); HUM (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); NAICS923130 ADMINISTRATION OF HUMAN RESOURCE PROGRAMS (EXCEPT EDUCATION, PUBLIC HEALTH & VETERANS' AFFAIRS PROGRAMS) (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (82%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (60%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP; AETNA CORP; PACIFICARE HEALTH SYSTEMS INC; OXFORD HEALTH PLANS; FOUNDATION HEALTH SYSTEMS INC; OXFORD HEALTH PLANS; KAISER PERMANENTE; BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD KAISER PERMANENTE (84%); HEALTH NET INC (84%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (82%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (82%); HUMANA INC (62%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (60%); PACIFICARE HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (54%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED HEALTHCARE CORP; AETNA CORP; PACIFICARE HEALTH SYSTEMS INC; OXFORD HEALTH PLANS; FOUNDATION HEALTH SYSTEMS INC; OXFORD HEALTH PLANS; KAISER PERMANENTE; BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UTAH; OHIO; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; MEDICARE; AGED HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (95%); MEDICARE (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AGING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J; DELORENZO, EUGENE; DELORENZO, YURIKO EUGENE DELORENZO (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



255 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Big Metropolis on Campus;
New York Siren Song Lures More College Applications

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
New York hardly fits the usual image of College Town, U.S.A. And higher education will never dominate the local culture and economy the way it does in, say, Boston or Ann Arbor, Mich. But increasingly, New York is becoming the college applicant's destination of choice.
During the last five years, with financial and media businesses booming, crime plunging and the city re-emerging as the place to be, admissions offices say high school students have been applying to New York's colleges and universities in record numbers. Drawn by the city's glitter, its activity and its range of jobs and internships, they have been inundating the admissions offices at the big elite universities like Columbia and New York University as well as smaller regional schools like Pace and Marymount Manhattan. 
 "New York City is bigger, more exciting, special, wild and crazy," Gosia Rymsza-Pawlowska, a first-year student from Washington, said excitedly as she stood on a Broadway sidewalk the other day, waiting for a cart so she could move her luggage into her new dormitory at Barnard College.
While college applications nationwide have risen slowly -- they grew an average of 11 percent per college at four-year colleges between 1991 and 1996, according to the College Board -- colleges in New York City say their increase has been considerably steeper. This soaring demand, in turn, has allowed the colleges to burnish their images. The more applications they get, the more selective they can be, allowing them to admit better students and raising their rankings in rating guides like those of U.S. News & World Report.
New York University has seen applications rise 145 percent since 1991, to 24,500. Fordham, which has campuses in the Bronx and Manhattan, has seen applications double in the same period, to 7,621.
Columbia University's applications have risen 81 percent in the last five years, to 12,251 for a freshman class of 955 at Columbia College. Even though Columbia has expanded its freshman class by 110 over the past decade, the growth in applications has lowered its acceptance rate to 14 percent, which Columbia officials say makes it the third most selective college in the Ivy League, after Harvard and Princeton.
"We think a lot of this is because of the excellence in the programs we offer," said Columbia's president, George Rupp. "But we know that a major ingredient is that New York is viewed as a hot town and a great place to be."
Surging applications, 3,841 for a class of 549, have also transformed Barnard into the country's most popular women's college, said Judith Shapiro, the president, who also cited the city as a factor. "Students enter the gates, and it really is a community," she said. "But they walk outside, and all of New York is there."
Similarly, Pace University's New York campus and Marymount Manhattan have both seen applications rise 64 percent in five years. At the Juilliard School, Janet Kessin, a spokeswoman, said that while applications to other conservatories around the country have peaked after years of growth, Juilliard's applications have continued to climb.
A growing number of applications and new students are from out of town, forcing some universities to scramble for dormitory space and turning others from commuter colleges into residential ones. Marymount, once a commuter school on the Upper East Side, now draws a quarter of its students from outside the city and has had to rent space on Roosevelt Island and in Brooklyn. St. John's University in Queens has received more than 7,000 inquiries from around the country since it announced plans to build dormitories just a few months ago.
New York is unlikely to become a classic college town, but education officials say no other city matches it when it comes to the number of colleges (about 100 within the five boroughs) or students (half a million). The City University of New York alone has 200,000 students on its 21 campuses, while the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, a trade association of private colleges in New York State, says its 39 member colleges in New York City have about 163,000 students.
Students say they are drawn by the reputations and the particular offerings of the colleges they apply to: the dance programs at N.Y.U. or Barnard, for example, or the core curriculum at Columbia. But like Glenn Shor, a freshman from Coral Springs, Fla., who just started at N.Y.U.'s Stern School of Business, nearly all say the city was a crucial factor.
"New York City was probably like the biggest thing for me in choosing a college," Mr. Shor said this week as he waited in the Loeb Student Center for a briefing on jobs and internships, a thick black planner clutched in his hand. "I grew up in the suburbs, but there are so many opportunities here. You can't get much closer to Wall Street. I want to end up there eventually."
Students attending colleges in Manhattan are not the only ones who point to the city's lure. Garrett D. Sidmore, 18, a freshman from Danvers, Mass., at Manhattan College in the Bronx, said he chose New York over business schools closer to home because "everything is out there, connections."
"It'll be easier for me to visit the businesses in the city," he said, "to get the internships, the jobs, meet the people and network that I need to succeed."
While job opportunities are a huge draw, another is the arts and theater, both for aspiring performers and for those who simply want to watch. Nahede Khosrovi, 17, a freshman in the new Fordham-Alvin Ailey program, said she had found few comparable programs elsewhere that would have allowed her to pursue her goal of becoming a dancer while taking high-quality academic courses.
Not everyone understands New York's lure. Nina Narelle, 23, a freshman at Eugene Lang College at the New School, said that when she told her friends in Oregon that she was headed for New York, "they wrinkled up their faces in revulsion."
But she can't get enough of the city. An environmentalist used to spending lots of time in forests, in the two weeks since she arrived, she has explored Central Park, visited the Whitney Museum of American Art, and ridden a bike from 97th Street to 10th Street and back, yelling, "Watch out, buddy," at cabbies who came too close.
"It allows me to step out of myself," she said. "I've gotten lost a lot, but I'm having a fabulous time."
College officials say students in New York can receive an education unlike what they would get anywhere else, and colleges are increasingly setting up courses and internships that focus on the city and its cultural and business institutions.
Columbia University has created a program called Passport to New York, in which students not only have free access to about 15 institutions, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Brooklyn Academy of Music, but also may apply for paid internships at these institutions.
Manhattan College offers a series of classes known as site courses, in which 30 percent of the class time is spent in the city. They range from Skyscraper Architecture to In the Trenches of Wall Street to Theater in the City: Drama and Performance.
"The New York City theater is our campus," said Mary Ann O'Donnell, a professor of English and dean of the School of the Arts. "Students attend performances. That's their textbook."
"We've always had groups of culture vultures," she said. "But now the city is vibrant. And for those who view it from other places, it's perceived as safe once again. It's perceived as the place to be. They are studying abroad in New York."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sarah Klein, 18, of Okemos, Mich., with her mother, Martha Klein, moving belongings into her room at Barnard College. Students standing in line to check into dormitory rooms at Columbia University. Its applications have risen 81 percent in the last five years. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (66%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



256 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
The Bulls Stampede Back, Shoving Chicken Little Aside

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Back to work. Back to school. Back to the bull market.
In a rush of emotional buying that peaked in the last half-hour of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 380.53 points for the day, a 4.98 percent jump. 
 Although there were many players on yesterday's stock market stage, the protagonist was Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. In a speech at the University of California in Berkeley on Friday, Mr. Greenspan suggested that the Federal Reserve might cut interest rates if there was a worsening in the financial crisis that has humbled Asia and Russia and now threatens Latin America.
Investors have come to believe, though it is not always so, that falling interest rates inevitably push stock prices higher. Many of these believers stampeded into stocks yesterday.
But traders gave other reasons for the rush to stocks, all having more to do with psychology than with economics. In other words, the world remains an economically precarious place, higher stock prices notwithstanding.
Investors, for example, seemed to return from their Labor Day weekend thinking that the unrelenting selling of the last two weeks had taken stocks to levels that even Chicken Little would consider overdone. It was time to hunt around for bargains.
Investors may also have done a little check of the calendar and found that it was time again to buy. Why? Because since 1981, all bear markets -- defined as declines of 20 percent or more -- have reached bottom after an average of about 60 days. This includes the whipping investors took during the summer of 1983, the crash of 1987, the bear market of 1990 and the decline of early 1994.
Another factor working in favor of stocks yesterday was a flood of buying by investors who had made bets that share prices were going to continue their downward spiral -- buying that Wall Street calls short-covering. This is a type of forced purchase that occurs when pessimistic investors who had sold short -- selling shares they did not own in hopes of buying them back later at lower prices -- see these shares rise in value. Hurrying to cut their losses on trades gone awry, these investors buy back the shares they had sold earlier.
Then there was Abby Joseph Cohen, the Goldman, Sachs market strategist, who appeared on "Face the Nation" on CBS on Sunday to give her cheery predictions for stock prices. Perhaps this audience, more politically oriented than equity inclined, had not yet heard her argument for higher stock prices. Maybe they rushed to call their brokers yesterday morning.
While the surge was impressive, traders said that its steepness, particularly in the final half-hour of trading, looked very much like the work of so-called momentum investors, those who buy only after stocks have made a strong move. Many of these investors execute their trades near the end of the day in the hope that the surge will draw in other investors the following day.
Still, yesterday belonged to Mr. Greenspan. His comments telegraphing the possibility of a rate cut were all that investors needed to get their grooves back.
Does this make sense? Yes and no. In general, lower rates mean lower borrowing costs, a positive for corporate America. But some of the stocks that made the biggest moves yesterday, favorites like America Online, Lucent Technologies and Cisco Systems, do not qualify as interest-rate- sensitive stocks. It is to be expected that bank stocks would rally on news of a possible rate cut, but why should lower interest rates propel the shares of Internet darlings and computer makers?
Conversely, shares of certain companies that would benefit from lower lending and mortgage rates barely budged yesterday. Three home builders -- Toll Brothers, the Lennar Corporation and the Kaufman & Broad Home Corporation -- only inched up.
Yesterday's stock rally, one money manager said, illustrates how the market absorbs news almost instantaneously, leaving no time for investors to mull it all over and no room for error.
Indeed, in yesterday's trading, a substantial cut in interest rates -- one-half of one percentage point, not the one-quarter Mr. Greenspan is famous for -- was almost instantly factored into stock prices. What happens if the Federal Reserve does not ease monetary policy at its meeting Sept. 29? The market would be mighty disappointed.
Even though a possible rate cut gave fuel to the fiery stock prices, traders noted that it should not have been news to investors. Bond traders are already counting on not one, not two, but three rate cuts of one-quarter percentage point each. Investors can see these expectations reflected in the five-year Treasury note, which was trading at a yield of 4.92 percent yesterday -- well below the 5.5 percent yield on Federal funds, the rate the Federal Reserve sets.
Sure enough yesterday, while stocks were racing, bonds yawned. The 30-year Treasury bond yielded 5.36 percent at the end of the day's trading, up from the 5.28 percent close of Friday.
What stock market investors heard in Mr. Greenspan's Berkeley speech was that they now had something they had been sorely lacking for weeks: a tower of strength. With the world in disarray, the International Monetary Fund weakened and President Clinton hobbled, equity investors seized on Mr. Greenspan as the best candidate to save the planet.
For Mr. Greenspan, who has scolded investors in the past for being overly euphoric, to have ignited a new round of stock market euphoria is an odd turn of events.
But the future health of the stock market depends not so much on Mr. Greenspan and interest rates as it does on corporate profits. And those are still looking risky.
Indeed, analysts in Salomon Smith Barney's economics group lowered their profit estimates for the Standard & Poor's 500 stocks for both 1998 and 1999 last Friday. The analysts, led by Mitchell Held, wrote that they were now expecting earnings growth on the S.& P. of just 1.5 percent this year and, more ominously, a decline of 1 percent next year. They said that the downturn in Asia would continue well into 1999 and that growth in the emerging markets of Latin America would slow from 3 percent in 1998 to zero next year. Throw Canada into the mix, a country that has seen its currency plummet and one that accounts for 25 percent of American exports, and you have questions about the health of nearly 75 percent of the market for United States exports.
The report concluded, "Financial market developments of recent weeks will result in slower economic activity on a global scale in the year ahead, dimming the earnings outlook for domestic companies considerably."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Bulls Rush In"
The Dow's summer roller coaster ride headed upward yesterday. Graph tracks the Dow since its July 17 peak (9,337.97) (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); US LABOR DAY (74%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN ALAN GREENSPAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



257 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Suspect Held in Colorado Shooting Rampage

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: AURORA, Colo. Sept. 8

 BODY:
A 17-year-old boy in police custody is the sole teen-age survivor and a suspect in a Labor Day shooting rampage that killed five other teen-agers and a woman, the authorities said today.
The police and witnesses said that on Monday, the suspect, Alexander Pagosian, and a friend, Michael Martinez, 18, who were carrying shotguns, pulled bandanas over their faces and entered two houses in the suburbs of Aurora, east of Denver. They shot and killed Greg Medla, 18, his girlfriend, Marissa Avalos, 16, and his mother, Penny Medla, 37, at the first house, and Eddie Morales and Zachery Over at the second house, the police said. 
 A few hours later, Mr. Martinez was found dead in a field about 10 miles away, where he had been shot repeatedly with a handgun, the police said.
Early today, the Aurora police received a call from Mr. Pagosian, which led them to him. Both suspects are from Aurora and the police said they had criminal records. Mr. Martinez was also expelled from high school last year.
The killings constituted the largest multiple slaying in Colorado in recent decades.
"All of them knew each other," J. Michael Stiers, Aurora's deputy police chief, said today at a news conference. He declined to say whether drugs or gangs were involved.
Neighbors spoke today about the crimes, on Harvard Avenue and on Paris Way, two tree-lined streets in solidly middle-class subdivisions.
A witness said the two men had left the crime scene and walked toward Mr. Martinez's home two blocks away.
"They walked out with their guns wide open and headed to the apartments," a 15-year-old boy named Derrick said. Speaking through a locked screen door on Harvard Avenue, he refused to give his last name, saying: "If they are cold enough to walk in there in broad daylight with their guns out, then who knows?"
Another neighbor, Mary Lyle, said Penny Medla's, 7-year-old daughter, Kayla, had run out of her house screaming, "Michael shot my Mom!" The police said Mr. Martinez was a family acquaintance.
"Your economic standing doesn't protect you from it," Mrs. Lyle said, adding that she and her husband had just finished building their house and were moving in. "We built this as our dream house, but it started with a nightmare."
Homicides here in this city of 260,000 jumped last year to 17, from 11 in 1996. In 1993, a robbery here at a fast-food restaurant by an employee left four dead.
But the 1997 homicide rate of 7 per 100,000 in Aurora, Colorado's third largest city after Denver and Colorado Springs, was still half the rate of Denver's rate of 15 per 100,000.
Federal Bureau of Investigation statistics collected last year for the nation's 38 mid-sized cities show Aurora ranking third in violent crime.
For years, Aurora has been a conservative city shaped by military employers -- Lowry Air Force Base, Fitzsimmons Army Hospital and Buckley Air National Guard Base. Since 1990, change has been rapid: Lowry and Fitzsimmons closed and the population surged 17 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juan C. Morales, left, and his father, Anibal Morales, the uncle of Eddie Morales, one of six people killed in a shooting rampage in Aurora, Colo. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (95%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: LOWRY AIR FORCE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AURORA (COLO); UNITED STATES (95%); COLORADO, USA (95%); DENVER, CO, USA (90%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SHOOTINGS (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); HOMICIDE (89%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); WITNESSES (78%); AURORA MOVIE THEATER SHOOTINGS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GANGS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); CHILDREN (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); SUBURBS (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; PAGOSIAN, ANDREW MICHAEL MARTINEZ (91%); MARY LYLE (56%); J MICHAEL STIERS (56%); PENNY MEDLA (56%); ALEXANDER PAGOSIAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



258 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1866 words

HEADLINE: Study Strongly Supports Affirmative Action in Admissions to Elite Colleges

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER 

 BODY:
A major new study of the records and experiences of tens of thousands of students over 20 years at the nation's elite colleges concludes that their affirmative action policies created the backbone of the black middle class and taught white classmates the value of integration.
The study, which challenges much of the conservative thinking about affirmative action, is to be released today by Princeton University Press in a book titled "The Shape of the River: Long-Term Consequences of Considering Race in College and University Admissions." It was written by two former Ivy League presidents, William G. Bowen of Princeton University, an economist, and Derek Bok of Harvard University, a political scientist. 
 Examining grades, test scores, choice of major, graduation rates, careers and attitudes of 45,000 students at 28 of the most selective universities, the authors say that although they are both advocates of race-conscious admissions policies, they wanted to test the assumptions underlying such policies.
Having completed the work, they say it should put to rest major objections to such policies, especially the notion that both whites and blacks are ultimately cheated by them.
With its rich database and carefully calibrated tone, the study will most likely lead the charge in a liberal counteroffensive to recast the debate over affirmative action, which in the last two years has been rolled back in California and Texas and is under serious challenge in Michigan and Washington.
The counteroffensive, involving books, articles and academic conferences, seeks to broaden the notion of merit beyond tests and grades and hails affirmative action less as a means of overcoming past discrimination -- an older argument with decreasing political support -- and more as a way to insure a healthier future for whites and blacks.
The Bowen-Bok study limits itself to the practice of race-conscious admissions in elite higher education; that is, to considering the race of applicants to be a critical factor in whether they should be admitted -- as important, say, as where they are from or extracurricular activities.
The study begins by documenting the problem: blacks who enter elite institutions do so with lower test scores and grades than those of whites. And as they work their way through colleges like Yale and Princeton and state institutions like the Universities of Michigan and North Carolina, blacks receive lower grades and graduate at a lower rate.
But after graduation, the survey found, these students achieve notable successes. They earn advanced degrees at rates identical to those of their white classmates. They are even slightly more likely than whites from the same institutions to obtain professional degrees in law, business and medicine. And they become more active than their white classmates in civic activities.
The authors call black graduates of elite institutions "the backbone of the emergent black middle class" and say that their influence extends beyond the workplace.
"They can serve as strong threads in a fabric that binds their own community together and binds those communities into the larger social fabric as well," the authors say.
A striking finding was how much an elite education served as a pathway to success for all races. Blacks graduating from elite colleges earned 70 percent to 85 percent more than did black graduates generally.
Blacks and whites reported fairly substantial social interaction at college, which they said helped them relate to members of different racial groups later in life. Finally, the more selective the college, the more likely were blacks who attended it to graduate, obtain advanced degrees and earn high salaries.
The authors' focus on selective universities illustrates what they consider an often-ignored point: the debate over race-conscious admissions is relevant only to about 25 percent of universities. The rest take all or nearly all people who apply.
Professors Bowen and Bok say there are other facts that have been overlooked in the debate as well.
"Until now, this issue has involved much emotion but little evidence," said Mr. Bowen, who is now president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, which sponsored the study. "When the Supreme Court decided Brown versus Board of Education in 1954, it relied heavily on social science studies. We hope our data influence the current Supreme Court when it rules on affirmative action."
Recent developments show that race-conscious admissions policies, approved within limits by the Supreme Court in its splintered 1978 Bakke ruling, are in trouble with the American public and may face re-examination by the Justices.
In the 1996 Hopwood case, for example, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit barred the use of race in university admissions, both public and private, in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. Two cases, expected to go to trial in mid-1999, challenge the undergraduate and law school admissions systems at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, saying that they give illegal advantage to blacks and other minority applicants. In 1996, California banned the consideration of race in its public university admissions. In the State of Washington, a similar ban is up for voter approval.
"The Shape of the River" draws on data about students who entered college in 1976 and 1989 and on lengthy follow-up questionnaires distributed to them. It focuses on blacks because of the quantity of data available and because blacks have been at the heart of the debate.
Eighty percent of those receiving the questionnaires responded. The database, built by the Mellon Foundation beginning in 1994, provided statistical life histories as well as the views of 45,184 people on education and occupation, income, retrospective views of college, interaction with other races and civic participation.
The 28 institutions involved in the study were Barnard College, Bryn Mawr College, Columbia University, Denison University, Duke University, Emory University, Hamilton University, Kenyon College, Miami University (Ohio), Northwestern University, Oberlin College, Pennsylvania State University, Princeton University, Rice University, Smith College, Stanford University, Swarthmore College, Tufts University, Tulane University, the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of Pennsylvania, Vanderbilt University, Washington University, Wellesley College, Wesleyan University, Williams College and Yale University.
Skeptics might argue that the success Professors Bowen and Bok think they witnessed in those studied was simply a result of continuing preferences granted them by institutions and corporations as they rose. But Mr. Bowen said that those who entered college in 1976 were today about 40 years old and had had to demonstrate that they deserved the opportunities offered them.
He added, "The overwhelming nature and magnitude of the results is so striking that it is hard to attribute them to preferences."
Professors Bowen and Bok say in their book that a "race-neutral" admissions policy would be disastrous for American society, reducing black percentages at top colleges to less than 2 percent from 7 percent.
As an illustration of what that would mean, they constructed a rough profile of 700 blacks admitted in 1976 under race-conscious policies. Of the 700, 225 obtained professional degrees or doctorates; 70 are doctors, 60 are lawyers, 125 are business executives and more than 300 are civic leaders. Their average annual salary is $71,000.
A more troubling question, the authors acknowledge, regards the white students whom these black students displaced. Would society have been better off if they had attended instead of the blacks?
"That is the central question," the authors write, "and it cannot be answered by data alone." It is a clash of "principle versus principle, not principle versus expediency." They come down firmly on the side of admitting the blacks, saying that society needs them.
But they added a statistical argument and illustrated it with an analogy to parking spaces for handicapped drivers drawn from an article by Thomas J. Kane in a coming study from the Brookings Institution, "The Black-White Test Score Gap." "Eliminating the reserved space would have only a minuscule effect on parking options for non-disabled drivers," Mr. Kane writes. "But the sight of the open space will frustrate many passing motorists who are looking for a space. Many are likely to believe that they would now be parked if the space were not reserved."
Professors Bowen and Bok point out that if more than half of the blacks accepted at selective colleges had been rejected, the probability of acceptance for another white applicant would rise only 2 percent, to 27 percent from 25 percent.
Like handicapped parking spaces, they say, race-conscious admission policies have a major impact on the minority in question whereas eliminating them would only marginally help members of the majority.
One commonly voiced objection to affirmative action that the authors seek to demolish is the assertion that since blacks admitted through race-sensitive policies do not keep up with their white colleagues, they end up failed and stigmatized, an argument put forth by Stephan and Abigail Thernstrom in their influential book "America in Black and White" (Simon & Schuster, 1997).
"When students are given a preference in admission because of their race or some other extraneous characteristic," the Thernstroms wrote, "it means that they are jumping into a competition for which their academic achievements do not qualify them and many find it hard to keep up."
Professors Bowen and Bok say their data contradict that assertion.
Gen. Colin L. Powell, one of a handful of people given advance copies of the study, said he was deeply impressed by the quality of it.
Asked about the stigma that opponents say affirmative action imposes on blacks who attend these elite colleges, General Powell was dismissive.
"I would tell black youngsters to graduate from the schools magna cum laude," he said, "and get one of those well-paying jobs to pay for all the therapy they'll need to remove that stigma."
Generally, the authors say, their findings offer robust support for the way in which selective colleges have engaged in admissions procedures, examining merit in a broad context and assessing both the needs of the institution and the society.
"If you ask what bothers the public about these admission policies, it is probably the sense that there is some unfairness here," Mr. Bok said. "I have two responses. One is that there is a tendency to equate fairness with high school grades and scores that is not well-founded in terms of admissions practices. Second, fairness is something that really has to be defined in terms of what the institution is legitimately trying to accomplish.
"In the case of universities and colleges, race turns out to be very relevant because we are interested in what students can teach one another and race is a part of that in an increasingly diverse society."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Derek Bok, left, and William G. Bowen have completed a study that challenges much of the conservative thinking about affirmative action. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "REPORT CARD: Affirmative Achievement"
A new study of graduates from a group of 28 highly selective colleges and universities gives support to race-conscious admissions policies. Here are some of the study's findings.
 
Percentage of graduates who attained a doctoral or professional degree . . .
. . . from the group of elite schools
Black -- 40%
White -- 37%
 
. . . from all schools
Black -- 8%
White -- 12%
 
Percentage of graduates from the group of elite colleges who have led community or social service activities since college, by type of advanced degree and race.
LAW DEGREE
Black -- 21%
White -- 15%
 
MEDICAL DEGREE
Black -- 18%
White -- 9%
 
BUSINESS DEGREE
Black -- 14%
White -- 8%
 
DOCTORAL DEGREE
Black -- 33%
White -- 6%
 
(Source: William G. Bowen and Derek Bok, "The Shape of the River")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SHAPE OF THE RIVER, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; BLACKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (95%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); WRITERS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: BRONNER, ETHAN; BOWEN, WILLIAM G; BOK, DEREK DEREK CURTIS BOK (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



259 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stock Market Gauges Soar As Investors Seem Hopeful
The Dow Jones industrial average jumped nearly 5 percent, or 380.53 points, to 8,020.78, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 49.57 points, or 5 percent, to 1.023.46. The Nasdaq composite index registered its biggest point gain ever, 94.34 points, or 6 percent, closing at 1,660.86, and the Russell 2000 index of small and medium-sized stocks increased 14.86 points, or 4.28 percent, to 361.93.
Analysts attributed the turnaround in stocks to comments last Friday by the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, who gave investors hope that the Fed and other central banks might jointly respond to crises in Asian and Russian markets. Page A1. 

The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell sharply. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, increased to 5.36 percent, from 5.28 percent on Friday. C8.
 
Yeltsin Is Pondering His Next Move
President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia was considering his options to calm the economic turmoil in that country after Parliament's second rejection of his choice for Prime Minister, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin. A12.
 
Goldman Veteran to Leave Firm
J. Christopher Flowers, a founder of Goldman, Sachs's lucrative financial institutions merger practice, plans to leave the firm at the end of November. The move comes the same day the firm reaffirmed its intention to end its private partnership and issue shares to the public in November. C7.
 
Brazil Plans Spending Reductions
The President of Brazil, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, announced measures to stimulate exports and contain spending. The plan's goal is to increase exports 15 percent a year, in the hope that they will reach $100 billion a year by 2002. The Government also announced a 20 percent across-the-board budget cut for national agencies for the rest of this year. C6.
 
A Wheelchair-Friendly Bus Concern
Greyhound Lines plans to announce that it will make all 4,000 stops on its nationwide bus system accessible to wheelchair users by October 1999. But groups representing those users said Greyhound planned to equip too few buses with lifts to deliver on the company's promises. A18.
 
American Express's Euro Checks
American Express will issue euro-denominated traveler's checks in time for sales to start on Jan. 1, 1999, the beginning of the European Monetary Union. Edwin McDowell: Business Travel. C5.
 
British American Tobacco Up 38%
Shares in British American Tobacco soared 38 percent in London on the first day of trading since the company sold its financial services arm to the Zurich Group. C22.
 
A Smaller Disk Drive From I.B.M.
I.B.M. plans to announce today that it has developed an ultra-small, one-inch disk drive aimed at the market for hand-held computers and consumer appliances. C2.
 
Consumer Borrowing Jumped in July
Borrowing by consumers grew at a faster-than-expected pace in July as auto and other personal loans surged, offsetting a drop in credit card debt. Borrowing in July rose by $5.3 billion, to $1.266 trillion. C2.
 
Orders for New Jets at $5.7 Billion
In the first two days of the Farnborough International Air Show, the aerospace industry's top event of the year, Boeing has received orders with a list price of around $3 billion and the European consortium Airbus Industrie has received orders valued at $2.7 billion. C5.

Equity Inns Cancels RFS Acquisition
Equity Inns has canceled plans to acquire RFS Hotel Investors for $660 million in stock because of the decline in the stock price of Equity Inns. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,020.78, up 380.53
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.36%, up 0.08
The Dollar -- 132.10 yen, down 1.47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (51%); BTI (JSE) (51%); BATS (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (50%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (97%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (85%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); BUDGETS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); EURO (64%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); DISABLED ACCESS (63%); DISABLED PERSONS (61%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



260 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: ON THE TRAIL;
3 Democrats in Race for Senate Strive to Rally Supporters

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
With Primary Day just a week away, the three candidates for the Democratic nomination for Senate returned to their strengths yesterday, trying to rally key constituencies to counter what has been a lackluster campaign.
Representative Charles E. Schumer brought out James Brady, the former White House press secretary who was disabled during the assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan in 1981, to champion his record on gun control. Geraldine A. Ferraro held a news conference to draw attention to her record and her stands on women's issues. Even as she was doing so, the third candidate for the nomination, Mark Green -- who has also made a strong appeal for the women's vote -- was telling a group of female business owners that Ms. Ferraro does not deserve their support just because she is a woman. 
 In a piece of comic political timing, Ms. Ferraro and Mr. Schumer each scheduled news conferences yesterday for City Hall Park, with hers just wrapping up as his was beginning. But as they have throughout the campaign, the two candidates ignored each other.
In terms of pure visual drama, Mr. Schumer won the day, and sent news cameras into overdrive, when he entered the park pushing Mr. Brady's wheelchair. His speech still slurred by the bullet that entered his brain and nearly ended his life 17 years ago, Mr. Brady read an endorsement speech as Mr. Schumer stood behind him with head bowed.
"Now, I'm a Republican, have been all my life," Mr. Brady said. "But in politics and in life, you have to help those who help you. And nobody has helped us and New York more than Chuck Schumer. I can honestly say that a lot of the reason that we have the Brady law and the assault-weapons ban is because of this man."
Mr. Schumer was the sponsor of and driving force behind the 1993 Brady bill, which strengthened restrictions on handgun ownership. The bill is the hallmark of Mr. Schumer's legislative career, and one of the focal points of his candidacy. He was also instrumental in the passing of the Federal assault-weapons ban.
Mr. Brady's wife, Sarah, the chairwoman of Handgun Control, a nonprofit group that lobbies for gun control, also offered an impassioned endorsement. "More than anybody," she said, "I can speak to this man's tenacity, commitment, his hard work. He is the most amazing machine I've ever seen on Capitol Hill."
Ms. Ferraro countered with Ellen R. Malcolm, the president of Emily's List, a national organization that supports female Democratic candidates in favor of abortion rights by bundling campaign contributions. The group has already raised a considerable amount of money for Ms. Ferraro, although the campaign declined to specify how much, and Ms. Malcolm pledged to do even more should Ms. Ferraro win the chance to take on Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato in the general election.
Ms. Ferraro became the first woman to run for Vice President on a major party ticket when the Democrats nominated her in 1984, and she is clearly hoping that women will make their enthusiasm for her felt at the polls. "This is a race that could come down to women really exercising their right to vote," she said.
To that end, Ms. Ferraro yesterday cited her record on a range of traditional women's issues: her creation of a special victims' bureau to handle domestic violence cases and sex crimes when she was a prosecutor in the Queens District Attorney's office; her defense of abortion rights, and her attempt to get a bill passed mandating equal pay for equal work when she was in the House of Representatives.
"No matter what kind of a female voice that Al D'Amato puts into his commercials, if you look behind the commercials and see what he has done with reference to women when he votes legislatively, you have to know he is not voting in our best interests," said Ms. Ferraro, who has also been endorsed by the New York chapter of the National Organization for Women.
But in Mr. Green's speech to two dozen members of the National Association of Women Business Owners, which he delivered at the midtown Manhattan offices of Anchin, Block & Anchin, an accounting firm, he said he had the strongest record among the candidates in protecting women's rights. He cited his lobbying efforts to get RU-486, the abortion pill, imported to the United States, his work to expose price discrimination against women, and a bill now before the City Council that he co-wrote that would protect victims of domestic abuse from discrimination at work if they need special security accommodations.
When he was Consumer Affairs Commissioner, he said, he wrote a report on discrimination against women by divorce lawyers that led the Chief Judge of the State Court of Appeals, Judith S. Kaye, to impose strict new regulations on divorce lawyers.
After outlining his record, Mr. Green, who is the New York City Public Advocate, took on Ms. Ferraro.
"Now at the beginning of this campaign, when Geraldine Ferraro announced her candidacy, I concluded what counts more than gender is agenda," he said. "And I yield to no one my ardor and accomplishment in the area of women's human rights and economic rights."
Mr. Green went on to say that if the three candidates stood behind a curtain and described their records with their voices modulated to disguise their sex, "I would get the lion's share of support because of agenda, not gender."
With all three candidates now doing extensive advertising on television, Ms. Ferraro perhaps best summed up the political mood.
"This is going to be an exciting race," she said. "It is very tight now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Geraldine A. Ferraro, at left, emphasized women's issues yesterday in an appearance with Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President, and Ellen R. Malcolm, the president of Emily's List. Charles E. Schumer campaigned with James Brady, right, championing his record on gun control. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times); Mark Green met Odera Durugordon, left, and Ikenna Chima yesterday at the Mount Morris Children's Center on 122d Street in Harlem. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; WOMEN POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); FIREARMS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); ASSASSINATION (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (54%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); FERRARO, GERALDINE A; BRADY, JAMES CHARLES SCHUMER (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



261 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Dow Rises Sharply on Hope Inspired by Fed Chief

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices continued their wild ride yesterday, but the vertiginous swings left investors cheering as the Dow Jones industrial average vaulted 380.53 points, or just less than 5 percent. Broader market averages also recorded hefty gains, partly reversing their recent steep declines.
Seeking to explain the big jump in equity prices, market analysts and traders said comments made on Friday by Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, gave investors hope that the Fed and other central banks might be coordinating a response to crises in Asia and Russia. 
 They said investors were also encouraged by Monday's vigorous rally in foreign stock markets, an advance that continued yesterday.
The Dow's rise in percentage terms was the biggest since the crash of 1987 but well below the record 15.34 percent rise on March 15, 1933, when the Dow climbed 8.26 points, to 62.10. On Oct. 21, 1987, the Dow gained 186.84 points, or 10.15 percent, to 2,027.85. Yesterday's surge was the biggest point gain ever. Still, the close, at 8,020.78, was 14 percent below the record of 9,337.97 set on July 17. The Dow is now up 1.42 percent for the year.
Analysts said the fact that most stocks were trading at deep discounts to their 52-week highs -- 44 percent on average -- was another factor in yesterday's climb.
"I think we were oversold," said Charles Clough, chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company. "And I don't think it takes much of a change in psychology to spark something of a rally."
In a speech delivered at the University of California at Berkeley on Friday, Mr. Greenspan suggested the Fed was less concerned than before about the threat of inflation and might be prepared to lower interest rates if sagging overseas economies threatened domestic economic growth. Later, a dinner that Mr. Greenspan attended with Robert E. Rubin, the Treasury Secretary, and Keichi Miyazawa, Japan's Finance Minister, led to speculation that Japan might be on the verge of adopting policies to reform its banking system and to bolster its economy.
Still, Mr. Clough and others said they did not view the mere prospect of action by the United States and other industrialized nations, most importantly Japan, as sufficient to send stock prices soaring again.
"It isn't over yet," said Byron R. Wien, United States investment stratagist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, referring to the market's recent volatility.
"This isn't the start of another bull leg," he continued. "First of all, none of the structural problems that caused people to rethink things last month have been overcome. The typical action in a down market is for stocks to get deeply oversold, to rally, and then to retest the lows."
Still, few analysts expected gains as broad or as sharp as the ones yesterday. Four stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. The broader market averages also soared.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 49.57 points, or just more than 5 percent, to 1,023.46. The Nasdaq composite index registered its biggest point gain ever, soaring 94.34 points, or more than 6 percent, to 1,660.86. That was its second-largest gain in percentage terms, behind the 7.34 percent advance recorded on Oct. 21, 1987. And the Russell 2000 index, made up of mostly small and medium-sized stocks, increased by 14.86 points, or 4.28 percent, to 361.93.
Big institutions like foreign pension funds, which typically trade in blocks of 10,000 or more shares, did a preponderantly large amount of the buying yesterday in contrast to their recent tendency to be heavy sellers.
Near the close of trading, just less than $700 million worth of stock was bought in lots of fewer than 10,000 shares, said Laszlo Birinyi, whose firm, Birinyi & Associates, tracks market developments. Individual or retail traders seldom buy or sell as many as 10,000 shares at a time. By comparison, more than $2.2 billion worth of stock was bought in large blocks, Mr. Birinyi said.
"The big difference today is that the professionals were coming back" into stocks, he said.
For a second day, buying was heavy on several foreign markets, especially in Asia. In Japan, the benchmark Nikkei index was up just less than 1 percent after surging 5 percent on Monday. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index rose 1.4 percent after a 7.1 percent surge on Monday. In Europe, Germany's main index rose 3.7 percent and the Paris index was up 2.9 percent. But London's exchange slipped one-tenth of a percent after strong gains on Monday.
On the Big Board, all 30 Dow stocks rose.
American Express, which along with most other financial stocks has been battered recently, climbed 6 3/8, to 80. General Electric gained 6, to 81 7/8, after its engine unit said it expected sales this year to rise 42 percent, to $10 billion. And McDonald's jumped 65/16 , to 647/16 .
The day's gain in the Dow surpassed the 337-point advance last Oct. 28. Volume on the Big Board was the 10th heaviest ever, at 814.9 million shares. Nine of the exchange's 10 busiest days have come in the last month, and four of those have been since the beginning of September.
"The volatility in the market shows nervousness and anxiety on the part of institutional investors," said Thomas M. Galvin, chief investment officer at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, "while time and again individual investors have shown more restraint and more of a longer-term horizon than many professionals give them credit for."
Mr. Clough, the Merrill Lynch strategist, said that Americans had not significantly changed the amount of money they were putting into 401(k) retirement plans and equity mutual funds. "What has changed are foreign inflows," he said.
In the second and third quarter of last year, he said, foreigners were putting an annual rate of $100 billion into American equities, about four times previous rates. In the first quarter of 1998, that number accelerated to $125 billion, he said. "These are massive, manic liquidity flows."
 
Treasury Prices Drop
With the stock market soaring, the price of long-term Treasury securities dropped significantly, and shorter maturities were down a little.
The same remarks by Alan Greenspan that prompted the rally in stocks led investors to see less need to retreat to the safety of bonds.
Maury N. Harris, chief economist at Paine Webber Inc., interpreted Mr. Greenspan's remarks as positive confirmation for eventual Fed easing of the current 5.5 percent Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans.
Mr. Harris also cited benign labor costs, which has been one of Paine Webber's key markers for eventual Fed easing.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 1 6/32 , to 102 2/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, increased to 5.36 percent, from 5.28 percent on Friday.
For investors the loss amounted to about $11.88 for every $1,000 of bonds held.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.789	97.578	Discounted Rate	4.79%	4.79%	Coupon Yield	4.91%	4.97%	High Price	98.792	97.589	Discounted Rate	4.78%	4.77%	Coupon Yield	4.92%	4.95%	Low Price	98.788	97.578	Discounted Rate	4.79%	4.79%	Coupon Yield	4.92%	4.95%	Accepted at low price	45%	73%	Total applied for	$27,812,914	$30,344,290	Accepted	$9,024,171	$11,294,684	Noncompetitive	$1,254,351	$1,153,454	
 
Both issues are dated Sept. 10, 1998. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 10, 1998, and the six-month bills mature on March 11, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "World Markets the Last Two Weeks" show percent changes in the U.S. Nasdaq composites, Brazil's Bovespa, Britain's FTSE 100, Germany's DAX and Japan's Nikkei, from August 26th through September 8th. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RUSSELL 2,000 STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BONDS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



262 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
MET LIFE ANNOUNCES PLANS TO CUT 1,950 NONSALES JOBS

BYLINE: Dow Jones 

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company plans to cut 1,950 jobs, or up to 10 percent of its work force, in positions not related to sales. Met Life said yesterday that the planned reductions were part of its effort to lower overall expenses. The big New York-based mutual life-insurance concern said "various factors, including normal attrition and organizational changes," would determine the actual number of jobs that would be eliminated. Details about the amount of money that would be saved by the cuts were not disclosed. In March, Met Life reported 1997 earnings of $1.2 billion after policyholder dividends, which amounted to $1.7 billion. Met Life now employs about 19,500 people at its administrative sites in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO METLIFE INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LIFE INSURANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1998



263 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 10; Column 3; Circuits 

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: LIBRARY/PRESCRIPTION DRUG SITES;
Comprehensive Information That Can Be Hard to Find

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:

WWW.IMS-HEALTH.COM
THIS is one of the most comprehensive sites for information on the pharmaceutical industry. The A. C. Nielsen Corporation of the drug business, IMS Health, regularly tallies sales of all prescription drugs in the United States. Wall Street analysts and drug company executives regularly use the site for sales information, but there appears to be plenty of helpful material for others as well -- hard as it might be to find it. 
 The site is particularly useful in identifying the most popular drug for almost any condition. It also has information on treatment trends for certain conditions, including H.I.V. and high cholesterol levels, and on the factors that influence a doctor in prescribing certain medications.
But searching through IMS is akin to strolling through a large pharmacy with confusing aisle signs. The site map is intimidating. For example, the section called Over the Counter, which has news tidbits on nonprescription drugs like Tylenol, has 29 other icons, including Strategic Technologies and Erisco, which is IMS's information systems subsidiary.
If you are looking for prescription drug sales, logic suggests clicking on Product News. But that quickly becomes an adventure in frustration. Type the word Prozac, Eli Lilly's ubiquitous antidepressant, into the search field and you will get zero responses. That is especially odd, given that Prozac was the second best-selling drug in the United States last year.
O.K., maybe this site was not designed for a computer neophyte. I tried again, typing Glaxo, short for Glaxo Wellcome, into the search field under the category Company News. Again, a complete bust. That was even more annoying. Glaxo Wellcome is the second-largest pharmaceutical company on the planet.
An IMS executive said the company's main site was being tuned up. The information about prescription drugs was hidden in the site map in a section called IMS America. But after moving there, then clicking on Pharmaceutical Division and News or Trends, I was able to find the best-selling drug in the United States last year: Prilosec, Astra-Merck's anti-ulcer medication, with sales of $2.28 billion. The nation's top drug seller: Merck? Nope. Try Bristol-Myers Squibb, with sales of $5.69 billion.
The IMS site is updated weekly, with news items added as they occur.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (92%); GSK (LSE) (92%); BIOC (EGX) (92%); BMY (NYSE) (58%); LLY (SWX) (58%); LLY (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (92%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); IMS HEALTH INC (58%); ELI LILLY & CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMS HEALTH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (94%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (93%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); TRENDS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (79%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (78%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (78%); PHARMACIES (77%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CHOLESTEROL (55%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



264 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: POP REVIEW;
Deciphering Pearl Jam's Messages

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF 

 BODY:
Though there were no light shows, fabulous clothes or extreme behavior, Pearl Jam's concert on Tuesday night at the Continental Airlines Arena in East Rutherford, N.J., had meta-messages galore. The band is touring behind its fifth and latest album, "Yield," whose title has widely been interpreted as an uncomfortable capitulation to the irritations of major rock-band life. For Pearl Jam that means dropping a boycott and participating in Ticketmaster's stranglehold on the rock-concert business (the Continental Airlines Arena, as well as Madison Square Garden, where the band plays tonight and tomorrow, sells tickets through Ticketmaster), coughing up a video, talking to the press.
In one sense, the thought of the "Yield" tour sits on the edge of passive-aggressive arrogance. Pearl Jam's enemies are the superstructures that bring the music to the fans, but the fans have sometimes ended up on the losing end of the band's righteous struggles. Putting the worst face on it, the band's new message could be read as "we'll deign to serve you." But that's a simplification. Yielding is a powerful metaphor for hitting one's 30's, for maturing, for making the contorted compromises of adulthood. Pearl Jam has navigated the straits particularly well, and stands just about alone now as the country's great meaningful, brooding rock band, where there once were legions of them. That feeling of importance and grandeur, that arena-rock feeling, was at the core of the band's performance on Tuesday; it was the basic disposition inside the thudding, swirling music and Eddie Vedder's muezzinlike baritone voice. But the surface of the show -- the available space for rock star messages -- was wiped clean. 
 All his body language communicated that Mr. Vedder was walking a tightrope between showman and private man. The members of the band, which now includes the drummer Matt Cameron, formerly of Soundgarden, barely look like rock stars anymore; the guitarist Stone Gossard's bleached hair was the only indication that these weren't just men with ordinary jobs. And Mr. Vedder shied away from the messianic side of arena rock: he wasn't there to preach messages or whip up the crowd's emotions. "I'm through with screaming and echoes that nobody hears," he sang in a new song, "Faithful." When he put his head down and danced in place close to his microphone, or concentrated grinningly on Mr. Gossard's expansive, Hendrix-like solos, they seemed merely interior reactions.
The band played a handful of its hits with what seemed much more than a sense of duty: "Alive," "Even Flow" and "Better Man." But the night's best moments were more experimental, and only for the music's sake: instrumental side trips in the middle of songs where the drive dropped low and the band free-associated with grooves and lyrics and ringing, lingering guitar tones. As a device, it recalls Sonic Youth, another seasoned rock band steadying itself gracefully; tellingly, during one of these side trips in "Daughter," Mr. Vedder quoted a line from the Sonic Youth song "Androgynous Mind" as well as making a passing reference to Bruce Springsteen's "Jersey Girl." Many of the songs just shuffled to a close, dissipating the energy but retaining tension with a strange sense of calm.
Toward the end, Mr. Vedder engaged in the obligatory rock star ritual: he walked around the back of the stage to acknowledge 360 degrees of fan worship. But rather than wave or gesture at them, he just gazed, like someone who doesn't want to overexcite a nervous animal. And as a parting shot, the band played its most oblique and pretty song: "Yellow Ledbetter," whose probably meaningless lyrics have been constantly revised according to time and temperament. Accompanying Mr. Gossard's delicate filigree, Mr. Vedder sang at his strongest and most undecipherable; it was the most graceful of exits, like a slow deflation of a balloon.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eddie Vedder of Pearl Jam at the Continental Airlines Arena Tuesday. (Ebet Roberts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PEARL JAM (MUSIC GROUP) UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEARL JAM (MUSIC GROUP)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); TICKET SALES (76%); CELEBRITIES (73%); 

PERSON: RATLIFF, BEN EDDIE VEDDER (92%); PEARL JAM (90%); JOHN MAJOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



265 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 14; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Pack a Vuitton; Paris Is Cheap

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
BORED to tears by endless cocktail-party speculation about whether the gyrating stock market will tarnish the value of $10 million Park Avenue apartments? Take that ennui right over to the Champs-Elysees and buy the same-size prewar palace for a (relative) chanson -- significantly less than it would cost in Manhattan.
Oh, there will probably be a few things missing: a doorman, for one. The French don't have co-ops, so apartments are easier for Americans to buy. Maybe there will be one or two fewer bathrooms. There may also be (catastrophe!) fewer maids' rooms. But you will be buying, generally speaking, more wrought iron, more portes-fenetres (we call them french doors), more courtyards -- and more eccentric layouts. 
 According to a report to be released later this month, the French real estate market is just coming out of an eight-year recession and prices are still low. Lawrence Sicular, the report's author and the chief appraiser for the New York real estate firm of Brown Harris Stevens, stayed with friends in Paris in June and compared the two cities' luxe markets -- creme de la creme vs. creme de la creme. An avowed Francophile, Mr. Sicular lived in Paris in the mid-1970's and is still intrigued by the city and its architecture.
"After doing market reports for two years on Manhattan alone, I decided to branch out," he said. "Having a Paris apartment is a dream for many Americans. It turned out this may be the time to buy."
Although Brown Harris Stevens is affiliated with Christie's Great Estates, which in turn is affiliated with real estate brokerages all over the world, Mr. Sicular said that his report was not intended to promote any particular Paris apartments.
But many Americans aren't waiting for the report -- or the advice. Marie-Helene Lundgreen, an agent with Feau Group, a high-end real estate firm in Paris, said that the number of American buyers has increased in the last 18 months -- from about 10 percent of the firm's clients to between 30 and 35 percent -- because of the perception that Paris is cheap. More than half of her own clients are American, she added, and most of them are from New York, Chicago and Beverly Hills, Calif.
Most of the Americans are looking for a pied-a-terre, but Ms. Lundgreen cautioned that her pieds-a-terre are not holes in the wall: almost all of the desirable ones are going for more than $500,000. But she agreed with Mr. Sicular that at the high end, they are cheaper than in New York. "It is very rare that people spend $2 million here," she said in an interview from her Paris office, noting that New Yorkers were "a little bit astonished not to see a doorman."
Consider this example: In Paris, a seven-room spread on the Place d'Iena, one of the city's most prestigious locations, is for sale for $1.75 million, with $833 monthly carrying charges. Practically untouched since the 30's, the place has an eat-in kitchen and three fantasy tiled bathrooms. The apartment needs some work, Mr. Sicular writes in the report, but it "looks over an old mansion to superb views of the Eiffel Tower, the Pantheon, the Invalides and the Seine."
Reaching the apartment is half the fun. Along Fifth Avenue, apartment buildings sit smack on the street, flaunting their facades. In Paris, apartments like this one are hidden away: you walk through a carriageway into a courtyard, duck under a glass canopy and step into an elaborate scrolled-iron cage elevator, which -- at last -- delivers you onto your own private floor. Inside the front door, the apartment has a paneled salon with plaster moldings, a Louis XV marble mantle, a round Art Deco library, a dining room, three bedrooms, three working fireplaces and three balconies. Upstairs are a maid's room and a bath.
In Manhattan, such an apartment (without the courtyard and the old-fashioned elevator) in a comparable location and with comparable views -- overlooking Central Park, say -- would now be priced at closer to $3 million, Mr. Sicular said, adding that not only would the price be higher but so would the monthly charges. The average monthly charges for a seven-room apartment on Fifth Avenue in the 70's are more than $3,000, he said.
In Paris, rich Americans often head for the Avenue Foch, which ends at the Arc de Triomphe. "Indeed, most of Paris's very few doorman buildings are located here," Mr. Sicular writes. But the French aren't as crazy for Avenue Foch. "It is considered too foreign, too quiet and too attractive to the occasional high-level prostitute," he said. Nevertheless, the grandest apartments are there.
But what about Paris apartments for your average American (accepting the premise that your average American might be buying a spare home away from home in the City of Light)?
The averages tell all. In Paris, the average price of an apartment in 1997 was $149,433, according to the French Association of Notaries. In Manhattan, below 96th Street, the average co-op price was $424,365 in 1997, according to Miller Samuel, a citywide appraisal company.
Ms. Lundgreen doesn't usually handle apartments selling for less than $500,000, but she recalls a one-bedroom near the Place de la Madeleine, complete with air-conditioning (not a given in Paris), marble baths and a granite kitchen. The apartment, owned by an American from California, sold for $230,000 -- to another American from California.
Mr. Sicular saw it. Although he doesn't report on Paris apartments selling for anywhere near $200,000, he is familiar with them. "It's my dream," he confessed. "I spent part of that month looking for a place of my own!"
A copy of the Brown Harris Stevens report is available by calling (212) 508-7275 after Sept. 15. It's free.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BONJOUR, PARIS -- A library, with boiserie, and a salon are among seven rooms on Avenue Foch, above; left, an entrance in Neuilly-sur-Seine; top left, courtyard near Parc Monceau. (Photographs by: Larry Sicular/Brown Harris Stevens; Feau Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUCTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (53%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE; SICULAR, LAWRENCE GORDON BROWN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



266 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Dissident's Wife Is Hauled Away Near U.N. Rights Chief

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Security agents dragged the wife of a jailed dissident through the lobby of the Hilton Hotel here this morning and detained her, moments before the visiting United Nations human rights commissioner gave a speech in a nearby room on democracy and freedom.
The dissident's wife, Chu Hailan, was standing outside the hotel, witnesses said, waiting for a chance to ask the commissioner to press the case of her husband, Liu Nianchun. A labor rights campaigner, Mr. Liu, 50, has been in prison for more than three years without trial and his wife has sought medical parole, citing his high blood pressure and other ailments. 
 But plainclothes policemen and hotel security guards grabbed Ms. Chu and bundled her, screaming, through the lobby. She was held in a hotel security room, then taken to a local police station and freed eight hours after she was first detained.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, later told reporters that she was deeply concerned when she learned about the incident and raised it with Deputy Foreign Minister Wang Guangya, who assured her Ms. Chu had been released. Later the official New China News Agency quoted a Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying, "Security guards removed a woman from the entrance of the Hilton Hotel because she was disturbing order at the hotel."
In her 10-day visit to China, Ms. Robinson aims to build a constructive working relationship with Chinese officials and nudge the country toward better safeguards for individual rights.
China has pledged to sign the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights this fall. That document guarantees freedoms of assembly and speech, which are often violated here in the name of social order and national security.
Earlier this year the United States secured China's agreement to sign the covenant in exchange for ending the annual pursuit of a resolution before the United Nations Human Rights Commission condemning China's record. Diplomats argued that by joining the treaty, China would subject itself to regular assessments by outside experts, a more effective wedge for change than hostile debates in Geneva.
But once China signs, it could be years before it ratifies the treaty and Chinese officials have said they will file reservations for any sections that are inconsistent with Chinese law.
In her visit, which began last weekend, Ms. Robinson has publicly pressed China to sign the covenant soon. But Government officials have made it clear that she is not expected to meet with any of the country's beleaguered dissidents.
Today Ms. Robinson left for Tibet, where China is accused of using harsh methods to suppress support for the exiled Dalai Lama. Next Monday, back in Beijing, she is expected to meet with the President and Communist Party chief, Jiang Zemin.
Ms. Robinson's talk this morning at the Hilton Hotel coincided with the release of a United Nations report on human development in China. In the speech she said, "China can be commended for efforts to eliminate poverty and to meet the basic needs of all."
But she also said: "The right to development expresses a fundamental value predicated upon respect for all human rights, whether civil, cultural, economic, political or social, together as an integrated whole. None of these can be fully realized without democratic governance and the rule of law."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TIBET (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS HILTON WORLDWIDE (92%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); TIBET (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICAL PRISONERS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (79%); PRISONS (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (79%); POLICE FORCES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); EYEWITNESSES (76%); PAROLE (75%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); POLITICS (69%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; CHU HAILAN; LIU NIANCHUN; ROBINSON, MARY DALAI LAMA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



267 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Post a Sharp Rise in Price

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose sharply yesterday, as the dollar surged in currency trading following an interest rate cut by the Bank of Japan. The 30-year Treasury bond soared 1 13/32, to 103 20/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 5.26 percent, from 5.36 percent on Tuesday.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note hit a 10-year low of 4.92 percent yesterday. 
 Anthony Chan, managing director and chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, believes the reduction by the Japanese central bank in the overnight rate for lending between banks to 0.25 percent and calls by Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi of Japan for a coordinated global interest rate cut nearly two weeks ago have clearly raised the level of speculation that the Fed Reserve might soon lower interest rates. And although Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa indicated that the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, had not asked for any rate cut from Japan, bond market investors quickly realized that the original idea for a Group of Seven coordinated interest rate reduction emanated from Japan and not from the United States.
"As a result," Mr. Chan said, "bond markets were buzzing all day with rumors that the Fed would cut interest rates as early as Wednesday or no later than the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Sept. 29. My suspicion is that the U.S. central bank would prefer to move in an orderly fashion and conduct any changes to its monetary policy only at an F.O.M.C. meeting. Consequently, I suspect that the next move will be decided at either the Sept. 29 or Nov. 17 meeting," depending on how global deterioration affects Latin America.
If policy makers were looking for signs of further weakness arising from the global crisis, they certainly failed to receive that signal from yesterday's wholesale inventories report for July. The report showed a weaker than expected drop, down two-tenths of a percent, in July wholesale inventories, suggesting the pace of import growth will remain tepid in August and September.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since September 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); BONDS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



268 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Simple Lessons in Humanity

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
St. Patrick's Cathedral was filled nearly to capacity for the prayer service that began at 10:30 yesterday morning. Close to 2,500 people were there. They came in very quietly. There were no surging throngs, just ordinary New Yorkers walking in from the bustle of Fifth Avenue.
Khallid Muhammad, the professional race-baiter and compulsive anti-Semite who organized the so-called Million Youth March, should have been there. He might have learned something. It was an interfaith service, a serious effort by people of different ethnic, cultural and religious backgrounds to pray and work together. 
 John Cardinal O'Connor, who led the service, was joined by an extraordinary array of religious leaders. Rabbi Ronald Sobel of Temple Emanu-El was there, and Archbishop Spyridon of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America, and the Rev. Calvin Butts of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, and Imam Pasha of the Malcolm Shabazz Mosque. Sister Marie Danaher of the Intercommunity Center for Justice and Peace was there, and Archbishop Mor Kyrillos of the Syrian Orthodox Church of Antioch.
Oh, there were plenty of different kinds of people there. You could fry your mind trying to figure out how to denounce and belittle each of their backgrounds. You'd need a dictionary of hate, a thesaurus of slurs.
The point of the service was to try and put a spotlight on the all but forgotten problems of poverty, hunger and homelessness in New York and across America. The most amazing thing to me was that a local prayer service with little or no advance publicity pulled nearly half as many people as Mr. Muhammad was able to gather for a march that was supposed to have been national in scope and that had the benefit of several weeks of sensational press coverage.
There is a hunger for mature, reflective, constructive leadership that is being missed by politicians and rabble-rousers alike.
I asked the Rev. Alistair Drummond, the moderator of the Presbytery of New York City, why he felt it was important to participate in an ecumenical gathering. He said: "I think it's very important that in matters touching on what it means to be a human being, and what it means to have human dignity, that we realize that we have tremendous commonality between our faith traditions. The teachings of our Jewish and Muslim and Christian faiths speak with one voice about the obligation to care for the poor and the vulnerable."
He also said, "There must be a place in the public argument for the moral dimension."
The prayer service grew out of a longstanding concern over the way the city has been treating homeless families. The service was not political and no politicians were mentioned by name. But several of the religious leaders have been highly critical of the way the Giuliani administration has been using an ostensible crackdown on fraud as a means of denying services to legitimately homeless families.
In January 1997, in an address on the plight of the homeless, Cardinal O'Connor said: "Do we root out fraud simply by calling all poor people fraudulent, or by punishing a hundred decent people in an effort to screen out perhaps a dozen fraudulent people? We have to be smarter than that as a people, and certainly we have to be better than that."
Yesterday the Cardinal spoke about the continuing plague of poverty among American children, about the enormous number of families that have a lower standard of living now than a quarter-century ago, and about the Americans who, despite a booming economy, go to sleep hungry at night.
He urged his listeners to see others as human beings, not as abstractions. He said "the sterile stuff of government reports" can leave "many of us unmoved and untouched."
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and other politicians should have been there. They, too, could have benefited from the simple lessons in humanity that were delivered in the hour and 20-minute service.
After the service, standing on the steps of the cathedral, Steven Banks of the Legal Aid Society said: "Political leaders often try to make poverty and homelessness into an us-and-them issue. But they're missing the message of gatherings like this."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: DHR (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (56%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DANAHER CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ST PATRICK'S CATHEDRAL (NYC); RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (86%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); FAMILY (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; O'CONNOR, JOHN (CARDINAL); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) CARDINAL JOHN O'CONNOR (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



269 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Lucas Varity of Britain Plans To Shift Headquarters to U.S.

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Lucas Varity P.L.C., one of the world's largest makers of automotive brakes, said today that it would reorganize as an American company, and issue new shares, in an effort to move closer to its big customers and take advantage of lower borrowing costs.
The company will shift its headquarters from London to Buffalo, and list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange. Shareholders will receive one share in the restructured company, the Lucas Varity Corporation, for every 10 ordinary shares. Holders of American depository receipts will receive one new share for each receipt, which represents 10 ordinary shares. Lucas Industries P.L.C. of Britain acquired the Varity Corporation of Buffalo for $2 billion in 1996, creating the current company. Lucas Varity sold its diesel-engine unit last year and put its heavy-duty brake business up for sale last month. It has been looking for acquisitions, and executives said a base in the United States would give it easier access to capital. 
 Borrowing costs in the United States are about 30 percent below those in Britain, which would cut the cost of acquisitions that the company is considering in the automotive or aerospace industries, Neil Arnold, its chief operating officer, said. Analysts said the company had amassed as much as £1 billion, or $1.7 billion, that it could use to buy another company. By moving its headquarters to western New York, the company will also be closer to its biggest customer, the General Motors Corporation, which is based in Detroit.
"The momentum of the world's auto industry is concentrating on the U.S. because of the strong economy and stable dollar," said Jim Gillette, an auto industry consultant with IRN Inc. in Grand Rapids, Mich.
The company said the decision also reflected the growth in its investor base in the United States.
Lucas Varity said it did not expect job losses in Britain or the United States. It employs about 56,000 workers worldwide. Lucas Varity also said it would buy back as much as 20 percent of its stock, and it announced that profit before charges rose 33 percent in the second quarter, to £53 million. Sales grew 8.6 percent, to £1.1 billion.
Lucas Varity's shares rose to £2.10 in London today, up 2 pence. On the Big Board, its American depository receipts gained 68.75 cents, to $35.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (66%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (91%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3694 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES (71%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: LUCAS VARITY PLC VARITY CORP (91%); LUCAS INDUSTRIES PLC (71%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LUCAS VARITY PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON (ENG); BUFFALO (NY); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COMMON STOCK (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (89%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (73%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE SYSTEM MFG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



270 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Release the Report

BYLINE: By John D. Dingell; John D. Dingell, a Democrat, is a United States Representative from Michigan.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Not two minutes after the television networks breathlessly interrupted their soap operas and talk shows to report that Kenneth Starr had delivered his report and 36 boxes of material to the annex of the House of Representatives, my staff received the first official request from the press for a leaked copy.
I haven't seen the independent counsel's report yet, and if and when I do, I won't be leaking it to the press. But I believe it should be released in full to the public and the press at the earliest possible moment. 
 Some disagree and want to keep sensitive information that could damage innocent individuals under wraps. This is a legitimate concern, but it shouldn't be used as an excuse for keeping the full report from the public. There are principled and practical reasons for making the entire report available.
The American taxpayers paid $40 million for Mr. Starr and his staff to compile the report. It may start a process that will force every man and woman elected to Congress to exercise his or her highest Constitutional responsibility -- and decide whether to remove a President from office.
The public deserves the opportunity to judge the report, to judge Mr. Starr's actions, to judge the President and to judge Congress on the basis of all available information. Justice Louis Brandeis's famous observation that sunlight is the best disinfectant still applies today.
Then there are the practical considerations. The report and documents are for the moment squirreled away in a specially built, secure office suite. To enter it, you will need a special access code. Guards will be posted 24 hours a day.
This arrangement will be as effective in containing leaks as the Maginot line was in containing the Third Reich. The President's detractors -- and his defenders -- once they have reviewed the materials, will make every effort to frame the report and documents in the most favorable light. The furious spinning means that we will see more curveballs than Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa combined.
Concerns about the release of salacious or damaging information are real. But let's remember that Congress isn't the only institution charged with protecting the innocent. Prosecutors, special or otherwise, have the same responsibility -- and if public scrutiny shows that Mr. Starr's report has been based on damaging but uncorroborated claims, then he must be held to account.
And let's face it: the damaging details are already out. We live in a world of the Web and 24-hour-a-day punditry on cable television. That a rumor is being spread is often sufficient basis for printing or airing it in mainstream media outlets, regardless of its truth. The talent for euphemism and dry, clinical description has never been more valued at our major newspapers.
During a news conference yesterday, the Congressional leadership and Representatives Henry Hyde and John Conyers of the Judiciary Committee wisely agreed that the report should be released to the American public as soon as possible.
Making the report public would allow every one of us -- the public and the Congress -- to make sound factual decisions. The selective or staged release of the report would only further contribute to public cynicism and distrust of government.
There is no shortage of critical issues facing the Congress, the President and the country. Economies in Russia and East Asia are imploding. Legislation on patient rights and school construction awaits action. The future of Social Security and Medicare are in doubt. Congress has not passed a budget and may fail to appropriate the money needed to run the Government, forcing yet another needless shutdown.
A full and speedy public release of the report would allow Congress and the people to dispense with the matter quickly so that we can move on to pressing issues with far greater impact on the daily lives of Americans.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Milan Trenc)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MILAN, ITALY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MILAN, ITALY (59%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ETHICS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DINGELL, JOHN D (REPR); STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S JOHN DINGELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



271 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Rebuking Ex-Arms Inspector, Albright Defends U.S. Role

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright hit back today at a former United Nations arms inspector and other critics who have accused her of trying to scuttle inspections of Iraq's weapons sites.
In a speech to members of the American Legion, Ms. Albright again held out the possibility that the United States would use military force against Iraq if President Saddam Hussein continued to refuse to allow additional weapons inspections. 
 "The critics are sincere," Ms. Albright said. "We are, after all, on the same side. But they are sincerely wrong when they blame America for the world's failure to uncover the full truth about Iraq's weapons of mass destruction."
Ms. Albright did not mention by name the former arms inspector, William Scott Ritter Jr., an American, who resigned last month and has accused the Administration of undermining the inspection system.
But her remarks, in a speech in New Orleans to a convention of the veterans' group, were clearly a rebuttal to remarks by Mr. Ritter, who testified on Capitol Hill last week that the United States had scuttled the arms inspections in Iraq through "interference and manipulation, usually coming from the highest levels of the Administration's national security team," notably Ms. Albright.
"In recent weeks, some in Washington have suggested that the United States has not done enough to support the U.N. inspectors -- it has even been suggested that we have tried to prevent Unscom from doing its job," Ms. Albright said, using the acronym for the United Nations Special Commission, which is charged with finding and destroying Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.
"In fact, the United States has been by far the strongest international backer of Unscom," she continued. "We have provided indispensable technical and logistical support. We've pushed and pushed and pushed some more to help Unscom break through the smoke screen of lies and deceptions put out by the Iraqi regime."
Aides to Ms. Albright say she is dismayed over the damage that may have been done to her reputation as a result of the controversy created by Mr. Ritter's resignation.
Ms. Albright gained early notoriety in the Clinton Administration when, as the American representative to the United Nations, she led efforts to maintain tough economic sanctions on Iraq despite flagging international resolve on the issue.
Mr. Ritter, a former Marine intelligence officer, has said that the Administration made at least seven efforts since last November to stymie investigations by the Special Commission.
Last month, Ms. Albright acknowledged that concerns about creating a deep split in the United Nations Security Council had prompted her to question the timing of certain inspections of suspected weapons sites in Iraq.
In confronting Iraq, it is best "to be able to choose your own timing and terrain," she said today. "Saddam's tantrums have a political purpose: to spark a reaction, divide the Security Council, isolate the United States and diminish support for sanctions. We have not taken any option off the table, including military force."
Even as Mr. Ritter has criticized Ms. Albright and others in the Administration, he has faced criticism himself from his two former bosses at the United Nations.
Earlier this week Richard Butler, the chief United Nations arms inspector for Iraq said Mr. Ritter's testimony on Capitol Hill was often inaccurate in chronology and detail and had damaged the commission.
And in an interview today, Mr. Butler's predecessor, Rolf Ekeus, who is now Sweden's ambassador to the United States, said Mr. Ritter had sometimes lacked an understanding of the "big picture" of dealing with Iraq.
"I don't want to denigrate him at all, because he's a very, very solid person," Ambassador Ekeus said. "But he's not in a position to know all of the considerations that go into decision making on the commission." He said that in his dealings with Ms. Albright, "I had always found her to be a strong supporter of Unscom."
In testimony today before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Martin Indyk, the Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs, said Mr. Ritter's allegations against the United States "had profoundly undermined the perception that Unscom is independent -- and that will make it harder for Unscom to do its job."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Warning on Iraq A-Arms
 JERUSALEM, Sept. 9 (Agence France-Presse) -- Iraq is hiding three "technologically complete" nuclear bombs that lack only the fissile material to make them operational, Scott Ritter, the former United Nations arms inspector, was quoted today as saying in the newspaper Haaretz.
Haaretz said Mr. Ritter made the disclosure at a recent closed-door meeting of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
Mr. Ritter was quoted as saying that the United Nations inspections committee knew where the three nuclear devices were being hidden and had information on how they were concealed and which officers were guarding them, but had not received an order to inspect the site.
He described the bombs as "technologically complete" and needing only the fissile nuclear material to become operational. Haaretz made no mention of whether Ritter believes Iraq has obtained any such nuclear material.
Mr. Ritter, an American citizen, quit the United Nations inspection team in Iraq last month, saying it was no longer carrying out its task aggressively enough.
He said the United States wanted to avoid new confrontations with President Saddam Hussein and had intervened to keep the United Nations teams from carrying out surprise inspections.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Madeleine Albright defended the Administration's Iraq policy at an American Legion meeting yesterday in New Orleans. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); AMERICAN LEGION (84%); AMERICAN LEGION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); AMERICAN LEGION (84%); AMERICAN LEGION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (95%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); VETERANS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); RITTER, WILLIAM SCOTT JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



272 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A Theater Boom Is Born In Russian Film Industry

BYLINE: By SOPHIA KISHKOVSKY 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 9

 BODY:
Five years ago, Raymond Markovich and Paul Heth carried reels of second-run American films on their laps and candy bars and popcorn bags in their luggage on flights from Los Angeles to Moscow, using their credit cards to finance a hotel movie theater here frequented by expatriates.
Today, the two operate Kodak Kinomir (Kodak Cinema World), one of the world's top-grossing single-screen cinemas, just blocks from the Kremlin. They plan to open up to 15 multiplexes, with 100 screens in all, over the next five years, in an investment projected at $110 million. They are part-owners of a film distribution company with exclusive rights to Walt Disney and Columbia Tri-Star pictures in Russia, so they should have no problems filling their screens. And they say the financial crisis now shaking Russia has affected neither their plans nor attendance at Kinomir, which continues to play to packed houses. 
 From the Revolution in 1917 through perestroika a decade ago, Russians flocked to movie theaters. The brutal Stalin era produced happy movie musicals. Patriotic war movies helped spur the Soviet Union to victory over Hitler. Films made during perestroika helped bring down Communism.
Attendance dropped in the mid-1990's. But despite such continuing economic turmoil as the free fall of the ruble in recent weeks, those who know the movie industry say that Russians, not just Muscovites, are ready to go back to the big screen. Doctors, miners and schoolteachers go unpaid for months, but economic hardship may actually be encouraging people to go to the movies.
"Russians like to be together," said Sergei Livnev, director of the Gorky Film Studios. "They're very communal. They want to watch a movie, then discuss it."
Just two years ago, the Russian film industry was pronounced dead by the head of its own cinematographers' union. Hollywood studios were boycotting the market because of rampant video piracy. And theaters, with an overall occupancy rate of 5 percent, had to rent out space for auto showrooms and nightclubs.
Now, the success of Kinomir, which Mr. Heth said had $3 million in ticket sales and $1.6 million in concession sales in 1997, has inspired Russian and foreign investors to look beyond the economic instability and seek a cut of the action.
Gorky Film Studios is promoting a $94 million project to develop 100 modern movie theaters across Russia, although Mr. Livnev acknowledges that plans may well change if the crisis continues. Down the street from Kinomir, Sergei Lisovsky has refitted a vast 2,500-seat theater and is planning to put up 100 screens for about $120 million. Mr. Lisovsky, whose advertising and concert promotion empire, Premier SV, has distribution rights to Warner Brothers and Miramax films, is building a multiplex and shopping mall near one of Moscow's busy train stations. The only change since the currency crisis, he says, is that his French partners in the project have raised interest rates on their loans.
Moscow's Mayor, Yuri M. Luzhkov, who last year touted shopping malls and hypermarkets, is promoting multiplexes to liven up the city and is courting potential investors such as Warner Brothers. "We're in discussion with a number of groups," said Millard L. Ochs, president of Warner Brothers International Theaters in Los Angeles. "Kinomir has demonstrated what can happen with a single-screen cinema."
Kinomir's home is the former Soviet-built "house of culture" of the newspaper Izvestia, once a gathering place for concerts, Communist films and propaganda sessions. More recently, neon signs and memorabilia for blockbusters such as "Men in Black" have replaced Soviet slogans, and a concession counter serves up Coca-Cola, popcorn and, in a nod to Russian habits, beer.
Financial crises may have deflated such indicators of middle-class well-being as appliance sales, but Russians stood in line for hours last winter to pay up to $25 at the box office and up to $200 to scalpers for tickets to "Titanic." Last weekend, even with ticket prices increased 10 to 30 percent, viewers lined up for "Armageddon." One thing moviegoers have not snapped up is the movie tie-in product, not because such items are expensive, but because they are cheap. "This is not a T-shirt and baseball cap market," Mr. Markovich said. "It's more Gucci and Versace." A coffee bar run by Nescafe and Russia's first T.G.I. Friday's restaurant help make Kinomir a hot spot for trendy Muscovites.
Mr. Heth, 34, came to Moscow in 1993 to deal in timber products. He stumbled into the movie business after his seatmate on a Moscow-bound flight happened to say he was involved in the opening of a movie theater at the Radisson Slavyanskaya Hotel. When the man said he had no advertising for the premiere, Mr. Heth said he and his business partner, Mr. Markovich, could handle it. In fact, the Heth-Markovich partnership then consisted of dreaming up business propositions while patronizing a favorite expatriate watering hole in Moscow.
Mr. Markovich, 32, was working as a lawyer. One of his clients was Paul Tatum, an American businessman who was embroiled in a lawsuit over the business center he ran at the Radisson. Mr. Tatum was shot to death near the hotel in 1996.
Before long, Mr. Markovich and Mr. Heth began to shop around a business plan for a showcase movie theater. Eastman Kodak, which opened a Russian subsidiary in 1993, agreed to back Kinomir.
Mr. Markovich and Mr. Heth's first free-standing multiplex will be on a street that already features a Planet Hollywood restaurant and the Beverly Hills Casino, which is owned by Chuck Norris, the television action-film star.
The interest in multiplexes rose as the resurgent Russian movie industry released 66 new films in 1997, up from a dismal 20 in 1996. Eastman Kodak's subsidiary, Kodak AO, reports an 80 percent increase over last year in sales of the film on which movies are printed. (When the Soviet Union was still intact, production thrived in several republics, including Georgia and Ukraine, and 400 films were released in 1991.)
Vladimir Gusinsky, head of the holding company Media-Most, with a newspaper, magazine and television network already under his belt, has expanded into film production. His new company, KinoMost, plans to develop movie theaters across Russia and build a modern film studio.
The man who heads KinoMost, Vladimir Dostal, the film director, says the number of moviegoers will keep growing if Russians have comforting movies and nice, new theaters to see them in.
"People don't go to movie theaters to watch the news, to watch people being killed," he said. "We will build happy endings. Do you often see an American film where the hero hangs himself and the heroine drowns?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Raymond Markovich, left, and Paul Heth at their movie theater, Kodak Kinomir. Their success has inspired other investors to look beyond Russia's economic instability and seek a cut of the action. (Jacqueline Mia Foster for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KODAK KINOMIR (KODAK CINEMA WORLD) (MOSCOW); DISNEY, WALT, CO; COLUMBIA/TRISTAR MOTION PICTURE COS; GORKY FILM STUDIOS COLUMBIA TRI-STAR INTERNATIONAL RELEASING CORP (56%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); COLUMBIA TRI-STAR FILM DISTRIBUTORS INTERNATIONAL (56%); COLUMBIA TRI-STAR HOME ENTERTAINMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: KODAK KINOMIR (KODAK CINEMA WORLD) (MOSCOW); DISNEY, WALT, CO; COLUMBIA/TRISTAR MOTION PICTURE COS; GORKY FILM STUDIOS

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); FILM (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); DRAMA FILMS (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); TRENDS (70%); CURRENCIES (65%); BOYCOTTS (65%); EVENT MARKETING (60%); RETAILERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); THEATER (58%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%); 

PERSON: KISHKOVSKY, SOPHIA; MARKOVICH, RAYMOND; HETH, PAUL; LISOVSKY, SERGEI MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



273 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Send North Korea Food Despite Missile Launching

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9

 BODY:
The United States quietly agreed last weekend to send an unusually large shipment of emergency food aid to North Korea, despite the North's recent launching of a medium-range missile over Japan, officials who have been briefed on the talks between the two countries say.
The agreement to provide additional aid, which has angered Japan, comes amid growing signs that North Korea was trying to launch a satellite, as it claims, when it shot off the missile, according to officials of several countries. 
 So far the United States Space Command, which tracks objects in space, has said it cannot find evidence of a satellite. But if the launching amounted to a failed effort to propel a small satellite into space -- which one official said "is the most likely scenario now" -- it would mean that the initial portrayal of the firing as a clearly hostile act was partially incorrect.
Washington's decision to provide about 300,000 tons of wheat and other grains will probably be announced next week, officials said. The State Department declined to comment, but other officials said the announcement was being delayed to put some distance between the missile launching and an American step to keep the North Koreans talking about curbing their nuclear programs.
Japan sharply protested the launching of the missile and immediately said it was reviewing all of its aid to the North. Japanese officials have made no effort to hide their chagrin at the decision to go ahead with aid, arguing that it rewards the North for bad behavior.
But American officials say the Administration is loath to become involved in another confrontation with the North when the executive branch is distracted by the Monica Lewinsky scandal and economic instability around the globe.
The State Department, meanwhile, is interested in keeping the North at the negotiating table because of growing fears that the Communist Government may be looking to break out of the 1994 accord containing the North's nuclear weapons ability.
In the negotiations last week in New York between American officials and North Korea, the Pyongyang officials reportedly agreed to resume a four-year-old process of "canning" nuclear waste at its suspected nuclear-weapons plant in Yongbyon, north of the Korean capital, Pyongyang. That work had halted recently.
While American officials routinely insist that food aid is decided on humanitarian grounds, and is never used as a bargaining chip, diplomats from other countries monitoring the talks say the containment of the nuclear material was a key condition.
The talks came as North Korea celebrated its 50th anniversary as an independent state, and re-elected Kim Jong Il, the son of the country's founder, as chairman of the National Defense Commission, saying that was now the "highest post in the state." His father, Kim Il Sung, who died four years ago, was named "eternal leader." The celebrations included parades and no mention of the widespread starvation that the United Nations says is afflicting the country.
The State Department has been cautious in its public statements about the North. James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said on Tuesday that the United States sought "concrete steps to assure that there is full compliance with all aspects" of the 1994 accord, and took up the issue of missile proliferation and terrorism.
But he declined to discuss details of the talks, or describe the agreements reached.
He also said that while it was "an important question" whether a satellite was launched, "nevertheless there was a missile launched that demonstrated the capability to deliver a payload against ---- "
Then he caught himself, continuing, "at very long range."
It is not clear why American intelligence agencies are having such a difficult time determining the nature of the launching, which North Korea declared was part of the 50th-anniversary celebration. The satellite, it said, was supposed to broadcast patriotic hymns and odes to Kim Il Sung, but American and Japanese officials say they have heard nothing in the frequency band that the North identified for the broadcasts.
One hint that the North may have been trying to launch a satellite lies in the unusual flight path of the missile, a multistage Taepodong-1 that has a range of more than 1,200 miles.
There is some evidence that the third stage of the missile, containing the nose cone, was fired off during the launching. That would be consistent with an effort to place a small satellite into orbit.
But there is no question it would be very small. The North has put a picture of the rocket, or what it says is the rocket, on the Web page of the North Korean Central News Agency (www.kcna.co.jp). Its payload bay appears to be very narrow, not nearly large enough for a traditional communications or spy satellite.

GRAPHIC: Photo: North Korea is celebrating its 50th anniversary as an independent state and re-elected Kim Jong Il as chairman of the National Defense Commission. Mr. Kim saluted during a ceremony yesterday in Pyongyang. (Reuters)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT NORTH KOREAN CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY (94%); STATE DEPARTMENT (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT STATE DEPARTMENT (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; ATOMIC WEAPONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; MISSILES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); NUCLEAR WASTE (65%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E KIM JONG IL (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



274 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: International Panel Closes Books on Gold Seized by Nazis in War

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 9

 BODY:
An international commission set up 52 years ago to return gold that Nazi Germany seized from central banks of countries it occupied closed its books and disbanded today after returning most of the last six tons to the original claimants.
In early 1997 the Tripartite Gold Commission delayed distribution of the gold, then valued at $68 million, amid disagreements about going ahead despite the possibility that money, jewelry and tooth fillings of Holocaust victims might have become mixed up with it. 
 After some hesitation, France joined the United States and Britain -- the other members of the commission -- in pledging money to a relief fund for individual victims who might have claims on the monetary gold.
About $60 million has so far been promised to the fund by 14 countries, including the three members of the tripartite commission and most of the countries that recently received the last of the gold. The total will probably rise to about $70 million, Stuart E. Eizenstat, the United States Under Secretary of State for Economic, Business and Agricultural Affairs, said today after a ceremony at the French Foreign Ministry to mark the milestone.
"The mystery of how much victim gold was in this may never be known," Mr. Eizenstat said later. "We came up with an estimate of $4 million, but it could be much higher."
The French Foreign Ministry, which has opened the Tripartite Gold Commission archives to the public, said France would contribute $3.45 million to the relief fund. The United States has pledged $25 million, and Britain $1.7 million.
Of the original 370 tons of foreign monetary gold reserves that the World War II Allies recovered from Germany in 1945, only $300,000 worth belonging to Yugoslavia has not been returned. That gold will remain on deposit in the Bank of England, officials said, until Yugoslavia's successor states can agree on its disposal.
The actual amount of gold the Nazis seized from occupied countries' banks and from victims of the Holocaust was much higher than the amount the Tripartite Gold Commission recovered.
Some is thought to have gone to Switzerland, which has been in an uproar for most of the last two years over charges by Jewish groups that Swiss authorities knowingly sold gold belonging to Holocaust victims for the Germans, and that Swiss banks held onto assets of the Nazis' victims instead of trying to restore them to their heirs.
France decided only last year to renew efforts to find the owners of hundreds of artworks seized by German occupation authorities or their French collaborators during the war, and is trying to produce an inventory from files that had lain untouched for most of the past 50 years.
Insurance companies that failed to pay claims to survivors of Holocaust victims and German companies that employed slave laborers during the war are the latest to face class action lawsuits.
The United States has organized a conference in Washington in late November to discuss guidelines for museums, art dealers and galleries on dealing with problems of disputed ownership.
Austria said today that after years of refusing to allow artworks to be shipped out of the country to claimants living abroad, it would now agree to restore to their rightful owners hundreds of art objects confiscated by the Nazis.
"We want to document that at the end of the historically burdened 20th century we want to clear things up once and for all," Elisabeth Gehrer, the Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs, said in Vienna.
Two paintings by the Expressionist Egon Schiele lent by the Leopold Foundation in Austria to the Museum of Modern Art in New York City have been held there since last January because of a pending ownership claim by surviving members of a Jewish family that lived in Austria when the Nazis took over.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

COMPANY: TRIPARTITE GOLD COMMISSION BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%); TRIPARTITE GOLD COMMISSION (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRIPARTITE GOLD COMMISSION TRIPARTITE GOLD COMMISSION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND OTHER MINORITIES; GOLD WORLD WAR II (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLOCAUST (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (71%); LITIGATION (50%); INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



275 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES;
Dollar Rises Against Yen, Masking Recent Weakness

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The dollar rose almost 4 percent against the Japanese yen yesterday after Japan's central bank announced a surprise cut in an important interest rate.
But the sudden surge, which pushed the dollar up to 137 yen, hides the real surprise about the dollar's recent performance against both the yen and the German mark: The dollar has weakened against these two leading currencies despite the economic turmoil and political uncertainty that has roiled world financial markets the last two months. 
 The decline, some analysts argue, is disturbing because it is another indication of how the global economic crisis is having an intensifying effect on the United States.
The drop in the dollar's value, especially against the mark, these analysts say, reflects a belief that the global crisis will spread to Latin America, weakening those economies. In turn, that weakness will restrain large markets for American exports, helping to slow growth in this country and further undercut corporate earnings and the stock market. In the end, the economic slowdown and stock market declines would force the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates.
The suggestion last Friday by Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, that it would consider a rate cut if the foreign drag on the United States economy worsened has only bolstered this view.
As a general matter, when the world shudders, the dollar rallies. On Aug. 19, 1991, for example, when the Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, was briefly ousted by Russian hard-liners, the dollar surged more than 3 percent against the mark that day. Now, however, with President Boris N. Yeltsin barely holding on in Russia and the refashioned Communists somewhat in ascendancy, the dollar has not rallied; it is falling. Since Aug. 26, it has dropped 4.7 percent against the mark, slipping yesterday to a 1998 low of 1.7215 marks from 1.7285 on Monday.
The dollar-yen rate has been a barometer of global investors' lack of confidence in Japan to turn its economy around and lead Asia out of economic crisis. Weeks ago, analysts were worried that the yen would fall to a rate of 150 to the dollar, possibly touching off a devaluation of the Chinese currency, the yuan.
But even with yesterday's dollar rally, the American currency is still roughly 7 percent below its eight-year high on Aug. 11, although Japan, despite yesterday's rate cut, has still not put many significant policy changes into effect.
Indeed, some analysts said that the Japanese rate cut had been prompted in part by the yen's surprising rebound against the dollar. Before yesterday, the dollar was off roughly 10 percent, settling in New York on Tuesday at 132.10 yen. This gave the Japanese central bank the opportunity to cut rates without worrying that the yen would plummet near the dangerous 150 level.
The dollar's drop, especially against the yen, stems in part from the unwinding of profitable trades as global investors, including hedge funds, seek to cover their losses from Russia and other emerging markets. This means that they have been selling dollars and buying back yen after making big profits on the decline of the yen all year.
Therefore, the current weakness of the dollar against the yen could be reversed once this type of selling is finished. The surge in the dollar yesterday may already reflect this.
That reversal will be even more likely, analysts said, if the Japanese Government fails to overhaul the banking system and to cut taxes -- measures American officials argue are needed to get Japan's economy out of recession. "Once the dust settles on this, the underlying fundamentals will reassert themselves, especially on the yen," said Jonathan Francis, global strategist at Putnam Investments in Boston.
But according to Avinash Persaud, global head of currency research at J. P. Morgan Securities in London, there are two more important factors at play.
One is a new aversion among investors to taking risk. With Russia's decision to devalue the ruble and the absence of new international help for the economy there, "the appetite for any risk has collapsed," he said.
A barometer of this risk aversion is the spread, or difference, between the yields on United States Treasury notes and bonds and those on the debt of emerging-market countries. That spread has jumped from about 6 percentage points to more than 14 percentage points in a little more than two months.
In this atmosphere, he said, investors are getting out of trades or bets abroad and fleeing to the safe harbor of their local bond markets. This means Japanese are buying back yen and Germans are purchasing marks. "I just want to have less of any exposure -- that is what we are hearing on the dealing floors," Mr. Persaud said.
The second factor is the fear that the economic crisis that began in Asia in July 1997 will strike Latin America in force, harming the economies in a region crucial for American exports and economic strength.
The loss of appetite for risk intensifies this kind of feared contagion. With more investors preferring to stay home, countries like Brazil will have to offer higher interest rates to attract the dollars they need to cover their growing current account deficits, the total of trading deficits in goods and services. This puts even more pressure on these nations to devalue their currencies and makes more speculators bet that this will happen.
And if Latin America is harmed, the drag on the United States economy, which sends about 15 percent of its exports south, could be enough to prompt a cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve.
Mr. Persaud has looked at the times when the Dow Jones industrial average has fallen 5 percent or more in two weeks and the Fed has moved from a policy of stable or rising interest rates to lower rates. In six of those occasions since 1982, he said, the value of the dollar has fallen.
So for the American investor, more than the outlook for the stock market now seems to hinge on the Federal Reserve. Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues, who meet again at the end of the month, may also influence the near-term outlook for the dollar.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Fall in the Mighty Dollar"
The dollar has traditionally been a bastion of strength during times of economic turmoil. This last month has been an exception. The dollar has lost 7% to the Japanese yen since peaking on Aug. 11. And it has fallen 4.7% against the German mark since Aug. 25. Graph tracks the dollar's performance against the yen and the mark since July. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Table shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); GERMANY (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); GERMANY (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



276 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Economic Scene;
Twisting Controls on Currency and Capital

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund, having bailed out Thailand, Indonesia, South Korea and Russia over the last 15 months, is nearly out of money, and Congress is not yet rushing to its defense. But its job is far from complete.
The financial crisis that it tried to snuff out in Asia has spread to Latin America and beyond. Investors are still dumping pesos and rubles in a grab for dwindling reserves of dollars, driving up the costs of imports for consumers and depriving economies of desperately needed foreign capital. 
 With the I.M.F. partly sidelined for now, the debate on how to stop the financial carnage rages at two levels -- what beleaguered countries should do for themselves and what the international community should do for them. One important step the industrialized powers could take -- debt relief -- has worked in the past. But otherwise, the outlines of a solution remain murky as economists find that many of the old panaceas do not work.
The best way to insulate an economy from investor flight is to cut excessive borrowing. But as Argentina, Mexico and other Latin American countries are learning, responsible monetary and fiscal policies are no sure-fire inoculation. Their problems are primarily external, starting with a steep drop in Asian demand for oil and other exports that has siphoned off dollars and scared away skittish investors.
Beyond balancing its books, a country must decide how to link its economy to the outside world. A fixed exchange rate sets the value of a currency in terms of the dollar, providing day-to-day stability for exporters and investors. Some conservatives, like Jack Kemp, the Republican Vice- Presidential candidate in 1996, preach fixed rates in part because such a regime requires a government to protect the value of its currency by maintaining a strict monetary policy.
The ultimate fixed-rate regime is a currency board -- a policy rarely mentioned before the crisis in Asia -- by which a country restricts the issue of its currency to the amount of foreign reserves it accumulates. Argentina prints a peso only when it acquires, through export sales or capital inflows, an additional American dollar. Its currency board thereby assures investors that Argentina holds enough dollars to redeem pesos whenever they decide to cash in their investments.
By linking a currency to the dollar, a currency board in effect transfers control over a nation's money supply to Washington. It is a reflection of desperate times that some respected economists, like Rudiger Dornbusch of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, have embraced the idea of a currency board for Russia. What would have seemed like an unthinkable infringement of a superpower's sovereignty a year ago now seems like Russia's possible salvation.
But fixed-rate systems bottle up tremendous economic forces that eventually spew forth with potentially cataclysmic consequences. Consider Hong Kong. As its Asian trading partners collapsed, its exports plummeted, cutting into its dollar reserves. The shriveling reserves have raised doubts about Hong Kong's ability to maintain the value of its currency by putting up as many American dollars as it takes to soak up as much of its currency that investors might want to sell. That leaves Hong Kong -- like Russia, Brazil, Venezuela and other countries defending their exchange rates -- with unappetizing options: abandoning its currency peg -- almost certainly exposing itself to huge devaluations -- or luring dollars by raising interest rates to levels that risk curbing economic growth.
The danger, as the Nobel laureate Milton Friedman warned more than 30 years ago, is that fixed exchange rates provide only an illusion of stability. Rate changes are infrequent, but when they do come, they can hit with the force of a bomb. Floating rates, which he says are preferable, are adjusted continuously in response to internal and external shocks, diminishing the danger of a calamitous day of reckoning.
Another decision that each country must make is how open it wishes to be to foreign capital. Here again, the intellectual climate is changing. Most economists have preached the gospel of open borders in the belief that capital would migrate to its best use and that competition from abroad would keep domestic entrepreneurs honest.
But recent events in Asia and Latin America -- where the whims of currency traders and short-term investors have tormented seemingly healthy economies -- have led many economists to embrace another erstwhile heresy: capital controls, by which governments control buying and selling of foreign currency. Jagdish Bhagwati of Columbia University, one of the world's foremost advocates of free trade, now encourages countries to consider adopting controls during financial crises. Paul Krugman of M.I.T. endorsed controls earlier this month, which, at least in his mind, influenced Malaysia's decision last week to follow his advice.
Controls are intended to enable a country to loosen its monetary and fiscal policies when it needs to in order to fight off recession without fear of setting off a huge flight of dollars, which can no longer be taken out of the country upon demand. But Jeffrey Sachs of the Harvard Institute for International Development warns countries to limit their use to inflows of short-term investment. If, instead, countries try to block investors from taking their money out at will, controls may wind up driving foreign investors away for good.
Running parallel to the debate over domestic policies is a battle over the role of the I.M.F. It has assumed responsibility -- in Mexico in 1995, Asia in 1997 and Russia in 1998 -- for bailing out countries in financial distress, lending tens of billions of dollars in exchange for commitments by those countries to tighten fiscal, monetary, banking and employment policies. In the case of Mexico, intervention worked well. In other cases, as in Asia and Russia, I.M.F. policies have backfired, at least in the view of critics. Mr. Sachs accuses the I.M.F. of cracking down too hard in Asia, needlessly fueling investor panic.
C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington, concedes that the I.M.F. made serious errors as the Asia crisis unfolded, though he says that it has largely corrected its significant miscues since then. Contradicting many of the I.M.F.'s critics in Congress, Mr. Bergsten argues that the world needs a well-financed institution that can lend money to countries in temporary distress, preventing one country's ills from needlessly infecting others. He does, however, call on the fund to better monitor countries before a crisis hits and to intervene earlier.
Mr. Sachs would switch the fund's mission from organizing grandiose bailout packages to organizing negotiations between debtor nations and their creditors. His idea is modeled on the United States bankruptcy system, which allows judges to put creditors on hold while a settlement is reached. Mr. Sachs recognizes that the fund would need a similarly powerful legal lever if it were to play a similar role.
The latest remedy gaining fashion would have the central banks of the United States, Germany and Japan jointly announce a cut in interest rates beyond what Japan announced on its own yesterday. The idea is to harness the cooperative spirit that by some accounts helped solve the problem of a soaring dollar in the 1980's and use it to break the pessimistic mood of international investors. Joint rate cuts would also provide relief to economies with large dollar-denominated debts.
But while the symbolism of joint international action might turn investors into optimists, it is easy to exaggerate the likely effect of a joint rate cut. Interest rates in the West are already low, and the United States is loath to drive them much lower because its economy is, at least for now, growing briskly. Besides, rate cuts do not cure serious ills, like Japan's insolvent banks or Russia's corrupt institutions.
But Alan Blinder, an economics professor at Princeton University and a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, provides a clever political rationale for a joint rate cut. If it were combined with an ironclad commitment by Japan to solve its banking problems -- a necessary step to its recovery and therefore Asia's -- the joint rate cut would rise above symbolism. Still, Mr. Blinder describes the case for joint rate cuts as borderline.
There is, however, one effective remedy on which most economists agree. Russia and other besieged countries cannot pay off their Western loans. Just as debt relief was the key to South America's recovery in the 1980's, debt relief will have to be part of any solution to the current plight of Russia and Asia. The sooner it comes, the sooner a widespread economic rebound can begin.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (83%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (61%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; CURRENCY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); CONSERVATISM (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



277 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Profit Warning Pushesthe Dow Down 155.76

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stocks slumped yesterday as several companies warned that third-quarter profits will be lower than expected and euphoria over possible interest-rate cuts seemed to dissipate.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 155.76 points, or 1.94 percent, to 7,865.02, giving up more than 40 percent of Tuesday's 380.53-point surge -- the biggestpoint gain ever. The Dow is now in negative territory for the year, and 15.8 percent below its record 9,337.97 set on July 17. 
 Comments from Procter & Gamble and Merrill Lynch about lower earnings expectations spurred the decline. Procter, the blue-chip household products and food company, fell 7 3/4, or 9.7 percent, to 71 7/8. It cautioned yesterday that earnings growth in the current quarter will be held to mid-single digits. First Call, which tracks earnings forecasts of securities analysts, had estimated profits at 79 cents, which would have been an 8.2 percent increase from the period a year earlier.
Another prominent casualty was Merrill Lynch, which slid 6 3/4, or 10.2 percent, to 59 1/4. The investment banking and brokerage giant had announced after Tuesday's close that it lost $135 million from its operations in Russia and other emerging markets during July and August and followed up yesterday by saying that start-up losses from its new retail outlet in Japan would be greater than expected, some $65 million.
The earnings alerts followed the euphoria on Tuesday, the first day of trading following the Labor Day holiday, when investors and traders had been heartened by a speech last Friday by Alan Greenspan. The Federal Reserve chairman had said that the risk of recession had caught up with the risk of inflation, implying that the central bank might decide to reduce short-term interest rates to head off contagion from sick economies abroad.
But while investors welcomed what Mary Farrell, a senior investment strategist at Paine Webber, called the "safety net" that Mr. Greenspan represented, they pointed yesterday to the persistent fears of what the sharp slowing of the domestic economy and exposure to foreign losses is doing to corporate profits. They also cited political instability, in Washington as well as in Russia and the Far East.
"It's one after another" of such earnings disappointments, combined with the general negative overseas and Washington climate, that is dragging the market down, Ms. Farrell said.
"These things are still with us and have not changed one bit," said Marshall Acuff, equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney.
Indeed, it was widely agreed, part of Tuesday's 380.53-point jump was somewhat artificial in that it reflected forced purchases by those who had been caught short -- traders who had expected to continue to profit from the market's seven-week swoon but who were suddenly frightened that Mr. Greenspan's address might have had a lasting positive effect on the investment climate.
That possibility seemed gone yesterday, especially when it was reported in the afternoon that Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel investigating President Clinton, had sent his report to Congress. The Dow, which had been down about 100 points since midmorning, sank another 50 points in the final 45 minutes.
Other market gauges also closed lower. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 17.26 points, or 1.69 percent yesterday, to 1,006.20. The Nasdaq composite index declined 2.19 percent, or 36.31 points, to 1,624.55. Although the technology-heavy Nasdaq market was down, computer and other high-technology losses were mostly limited to fractions. However, Microsoft rose 9/32, to 102 1/4, and Oracle was up 3/16, to 21 13/16. Some analysts said they thought there were bargains to be had in technology.
Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange more than doubled gainers, 2,172 to 943, with 418 unchanged. Volume at around 704 million shares was moderate, well under Tuesday's 814.9 million, the 10th- busiest day on record.
The declines had been foreshadowed by further bouts of selling overseas, especially in Hong Kong, where the Hang Seng index tumbled 283.80 points, or 3.47 percent, to 7,905.45. Japan's Nikkei index of 225 issues dropped 157.95 points, or 1.06 percent, to 14,755.54, despite a cut in its already minuscule overnight bank rate. Fuji Bank was forced to deny rumors of huge losses in derivatives.
European stock averages fell also, by 2.69 percent in Germany, 1.09 percent in France and less than 1 percent in London.
On the Big Board, retailers were hit hard, with Sears, Roebuck tumbling 4 1/8, to 46 3/8, on profit fears. Wal-Mart was down 1 11/16, to 61 1/16. Stores have mostly benefited from Asian financial problems, which have made imported goods cheaper.
As for lower sales of American products to Asia, which has crippled some export-oriented companies, Rosanne M. Cahn, an equity economist at Credit Suisse First Boston, said this problem was likely "more than half over." She pointed to Asian-bound exports that plummeted at a 42 percent annual rate during the first quarter but that narrowed to a 16 percent rate of decline during the April to June period. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (94%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); PROFIT WARNINGS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); US LABOR DAY (64%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



278 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Battle Over Islander Ice Intensifies

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

DATELINE: UNIONDALE, N.Y., Sept. 9

 BODY:
Nassau Coliseum, home to the New York Islanders, is the oldest unrenovated arena in the National Hockey League -- and it shows. The ceiling hangs so low that some fans cannot see the ice, and many seats are broken. The Islanders say that the Coliseum, built in 1972, is one reason the team is near the bottom of the N.H.L. in attendance and is losing more than $11 million a year.
In a lawsuit filed in Federal court today, the Islanders claim that the conditions are so unsafe that the team can no longer play hockey in the arena. The suit asks the court to declare that the Islanders have no further obligation under the Coliseum lease and seeks $10 million in punitive damages. 
 "We need a brand new arena," said David Seldin, president of New York Sports Ventures, which bought the struggling team in February for $195 million. "To survive, we've got to attract more fans, and that means not only better players, but a state-of-the-art facility."
The alternative, Mr. Seldin said, is to leave town.
It seems as if nearly everyone on Long Island wants a new coliseum, which could cost more than $200 million. Boosters include Matthew T. Crosson, president of the Long Island Association, and the fans. Thomas S. Gulotta, the County Executive, envisions a new coliseum as part of an ambitious redevelopment of the 70-acre site that would include a convention and exhibition center, a hotel and a public transit system connected to other areas throughout central Nassau.
But no one can seem to agree on a formula to pay for a new coliseum -- whether the money should be public, private or both.
The co-owners of the Islanders, Howard P. Milstein and Steven M. Gluckstern, note that the public financed 43 percent of the Buffalo Sabres's new $127 million arena, 60 percent of the $150 million Tampa Bay Lightning arena and 100 percent of the Nashville Predators' arena. Taxpayers, Mr. Milstein and Mr. Gluckstern said, should do their part for the Islanders, too.
In a recent public statement, Mr. Crosson concurred: "Public funds have been used to build Rich Stadium in Buffalo, Knickerbocker Arena in Albany and minor-league baseball parks in Binghamton, Rochester and Syracuse," he said. "Why not on Long Island?"
He noted that Long Island's population was larger than that of many states and cities and that its economy rivaled those of many countries.
But in a county that has had a series of tax cuts over the last several years, both Republicans and Democrats have been carefully sidestepping the issue of using public funds for a new coliseum.
The Nassau Coliseum is not the only sporting arena in the area that has been found wanting. The new owners of the New Jersey Nets are looking to leave the Meadowlands Sports Complex to a proposed site in Newark. The Devils are also unhappy in the Meadowlands, but their owner wants to move to Hoboken.
Those plans are still in the talking stage. The possibility of a new Yankee Stadium in Manhattan has moved to the suing stage: two weeks ago the New York City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, charged in a lawsuit that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had created a Charter review commission solely to keep a referendum off the ballot in November that would have asked the voters what they think of paying for a new stadium.
George M. Steinbrenner 3d, the principal owner of the Yankees, said at the end of July that he would help pay for a new stadium, but did not say how much he would be willing to contribute.
The Mets unveiled plans for a new domed stadium in April, and they hope to have the city pick up three-quarters of its $500 million price tag. The Mets' owners have also discussed the possibility of expanding the stadium to 80,000 seats to tempt a pro football team back to the city. (The Jets' lease at Giants Stadium in New Jersey expires in 2008.)
And the United States Open is being played at the one-year-old National Tennis Center, which cost $254 million to build. The city helped out by issuing $150 million in tax-exempt bonds to build the center, but the United States Tennis Association makes the payments.
Mr. Gulotta, who would love to cut the ribbon at the opening of a new Nassau Coliseum, has delegated the nettlesome issue of financing to Morton L. Certilman, chairman of the Nassau County Privatization Committee.
As Mr. Gulotta's chief negotiator, Mr. Certilman is trying to work out a deal involving the county, New York Sports Ventures and the Spectacor Management Group, which has a contract with the county to operate the coliseum until 2015.
Mr. Gulotta said that the state government had approved $30 million for the project and that other nontaxpayer money was available through industrial development agencies like the Empire State Development Corporation.
"However, it's my own position that most of the funding should come from the private sector," Mr. Gulotta said. "I believe it's the profit motive that flows from private sector dollars that will ultimately drive the engine of success for a project of this type."
If Mr. Gulotta has his way, the new coliseum will be a sports complex able to house other national sports franchises, like a basketball team, in addition to the Islanders. The old coliseum would become a convention and exhibition center, and county officials envision a new hotel at the complex.
"This is not a plan for just brick and mortar, but about creating a destination point and a kind of atmosphere for the central core of Nassau County," Mr. Gulotta said.
Mr. Gluckstern, however, has a different view. "I really could do without all the rest of it," he said. "All I want is a new coliseum." He said he could afford to continue to lose $11 million dollars on the Islanders for only two more years. "After that, we'll have to go elsewhere," he said. "Time is running out."
He said the Islanders needed to start construction of the arena, which would take two years to build, no later than next summer so that it could be ready for the 2001-02 season.
"We're not only playing in the oldest facility in the N.H.L., but we have the worst lease deal in the N.H.L.," Mr. Gluckstern said in a recent interview at the coliseum. He said that while the Islanders was a "fabulous brand in a large, affluent target market," it suffered from "a severe decline in product quality and an underinvestment in the infrastructure of the business, not only on the ice, but in the arena."
He put much of the blame on the Spectacor Management Group and the county's reluctance to insure that the company followed through on basic repairs and upkeep of the arena.
The most recent dispute involved the installation of a new $3 million scoreboard to be hung from the rafters high above center ice. The project was halted three weeks ago when the Islanders questioned the safety of the hoist for the new sign.
In the lawsuit filed today in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, the Islanders accused Spectacor with "constructive eviction," contending that the sign rendered the arena unfit for occupancy, said Gary Lewi, a spokesman for the Islanders.
An official close to the negotiations, speaking on the condition of anonymity, warned, "If this intramural dispute and legal wrangling continues, and no plans are drafted soon for a new arena, you can count on there being empty ice three years from now, if not sooner."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Islanders say that Nassau Coliseum's state of disrepair is causing annual losses of millions of dollars. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ISLANDERS NEW YORK SPORTS VENTURES LLC (56%); NEW YORK SPORTS VENTURES LLC (56%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (94%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS NEW YORK ISLANDERS (94%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; NASSAU COLISEUM; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY LITIGATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DAMAGES (76%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); TAX LAW (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BASEBALL (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); COUNTIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T THOMAS S GULOTTA (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



279 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Procter & Gamble Warns Of Weaker Sales Abroad
Shares of Procter & Gamble fell $7.75, or 9.7 percent, to $71.875, after it warned that first-quarter results would be weaker than expected, blaming flat sales in Europe and the financial crisis in Russia.
The household products and food company also announced a revamping of the company and said its president, Durk I. Jager, would become chief executive next January, succeeding John Pepper. Page C22. 

Levitt Backs Plan for Bond Trading
Arthur Levitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, announced measures to give investors more information about the prices and trading of corporate bonds and a surveillance program to better detect fraud in that market. C8.
 
Russia Lifts Tariffs on Medicines
The economic turmoil in Russia continued as the Kremlin lifted tariffs on medicines, a belated effort to cope with shortages of drugs in pharmacies and hospitals. But the scarcity of goods has increased prices. And, for a second day, President Boris N. Yeltsin pondered who would be his next Prime Minister. A1.
 
Waiting for Their Pitches
Advertisers are eager to capitalize on the record-setting home run heroics of Mark McGwire in large part because McGwire, and his nearest challenger, Sammy Sosa, have steered clear of the usual marketing hoopla while chasing the record. "Madison Avenue is salivating," one marketing executive said. "They're dying for Mark and Sammy." Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C6.
 
Los Angeles Tobacco Ad Ban
Los Angeles's City Council passed an ordinance banning outdoor alcohol and tobacco advertising on billboards, grocery store windows and other outdoor sites within 1,000 feet of schools, parks and residential areas. A22.
 
Northwest Airlines Talks Continue
Negotiators for Northwest Airlines and its pilots met again with a Federal mediator and an official of the Clinton Administration in an effort to end the 12-day strike. A24.
 
Livent's Long Intermission
Nearly a month after Livent, the theater company, announced that it had found accounting problems, many questions remain. And its shares are still suspended in both the United States and Canada. As a result, investors are wondering just how much their Livent shares are worth. Market Place. C7.
 
Murdoch United?
Manchester United, one of England's top soccer teams, has accepted a takeover bid of $1 billion in cash and stock from the British pay television company B Sky B, which is controlled by Rupert Murdoch. C6.
 
Russian Movie Industry Expanding
Despite the economic turmoil in Russia, attendance at movies is gaining and several companies are poised to develop movie theaters. C4.
 
Temporary Jobs Grow in Germany
With a national election around the corner, and unemployment receding but still in double digits, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Government has orchestrated an abrupt expansion in temporary job programs in Germany. A12.
 
I.B.M. and Xerox in Marketing Deal
I.B.M. and Xerox plan to jointly market Xerox's office printers, copiers and scanners, and I.B.M.'s Lotus suite of document management software. C5.
 
Yield on 30-Year Bond Falls Sharply
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond dropped to 5.26 percent, from 5.36 percent on Tuesday. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,865.02, down 155.76
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.26%, down 0.10
The Dollar -- 137.00 yen, up 4.90
 
Graph tracks the share price of Procter & Gamble, since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (90%); PG (NYSE) (90%); DAL (NYSE) (53%); MANU (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (90%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (52%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%); MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (52%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); AIRLINES (88%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); ACCOUNTING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); DRUG SHORTAGES (74%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); ORDINANCES (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (70%); PHARMACIES (69%); THEATER & DRAMA (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); STRIKES (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); MOVIE THEATERS (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%); SOCCER (60%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); CITIES (50%); THEATER (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



280 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Teacher Is Slain on Staten Island; Her Daughter and Son-In-Law Are Charged

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
A Staten Island woman who went back to school as an adult and became a special education teacher was slain the day before school started by her estranged son-in-law, with her daughter trying to cover up his role in the crime, the police said yesterday.
The victim, Vivian Jones, 53, was stabbed and strangled in her home at 21 Egmont Place in the St. George section of Staten Island on Tuesday afternoon as she prepared to begin another school year teaching special education students at P 141 in Brooklyn, the police said. 
 Ms. Jones's daughter, Wendy Perry, 19, called the police around 7 P.M. Tuesday and said that she had come home with a friend and found her mother stabbed and bound in her bedroom, the police said.
But the police said the daughter's story soon began to unravel. And by yesterday morning, Ms. Perry's husband, John Perry, 20, was arrested on a murder charge, and Ms. Perry was arrested on charges of falsely reporting the incident and hindering prosecution, said William L. Murphy, the Staten Island District Attorney.
Deputy Inspector Charles Wells, the commander of Staten Island detectives, said that Ms. Jones had become tired of financially supporting the Perrys, who were both unemployed, and had recently asked Mr. Perry to leave the house because he watched television all day and refused to look for a job. When she got home Tuesday and found him in her kitchen, Inspector Wells said, they argued and he stabbed her with a kitchen knife.
Inspector Wells said that Mr. Perry then strangled Ms. Jones with a telephone cord, carried her body upstairs to her bedroom, bound her hands and feet with duct tape and emptied several drawers to make it appear as if she had been robbed. All this time, Inspector Wells said, Ms. Perry and the couple's 1-year-old child were in the house.
The couple then left the house with the child, the police said. That evening, Inspector Wells said, Ms. Perry came back with the child and a friend and feigned surprise at finding her mother's body. "Ms. Perry just used her girlfriend as a dupe," the Inspector said. Then she called 911, the police said. "That was one of the things that tipped us off," Inspector Wells said. "Her demeanor didn't seem to be proper. She seemed pretty cold for someone who just found her mother dead."
As detectives examined the ransacked house, he said, they grew more suspicious. "It seemed to be a staged robbery," he said.
Detectives questioned Ms. Perry and her friend at the 120th Precinct station house. Shortly after 3 A.M., Mr. Perry was taken in for questioning. The police said that he and his wife both made signed and videotaped confessions to the crime.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (78%); MURDER (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); ARRESTS (77%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (72%); ROBBERY (69%); 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL; JONES, VIVIAN; PERRY, HOHN; PERRY, WENDY WENDY PERRY (95%); CHARLES WELLS (91%); VIVIAN JONES (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



281 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: House Republicans to Push for Tax Cut Worth Up to $80 Billion

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9

 BODY:
House Republican leaders challenged the heart of President Clinton's domestic policy strategy today, saying they would press for a tax cut worth up to $80 billion over five years and pay for it by dipping into projected Federal budget surpluses.
Their decision puts House Republicans -- already considering impeachment proceedings against the President -- on another collision course with the White House. Mr. Clinton has insisted that the surplus be set aside until Congress and the Administration have agreed on a plan to shore up the Social Security system. 
 For most of this year, Mr. Clinton's "save Social Security first" strategy had kept Republicans from pursuing a big tax cut paid for by the budget surpluses, which are projected to reach more than $1.5 trillion over the next decade.
But Republicans, especially in the House, have grown increasingly willing to push for a tax cut, in part because of their perception that Mr. Clinton has been politically weakened and distracted and in part because of polling suggesting that voters think Congress can cut taxes and still have plenty of money left to save Social Security.
Mr. Clinton again told Republicans today that tapping the surpluses before they materialized would be fiscally irresponsible. Eager to change the subject from Monica Lewinsky, White House officials were clearly happy at the prospect of a policy fight that would play to the historical Democratic strength as defender of the Social Security system.
Mr. Clinton said in an address to Democrats in Florida, "It is a mistake for us to go out and have an election-year gimmick to please people, no matter how pleasing it would be, with a tax cut until we have saved Social Security for the 21st century."
Many Senate Republicans remain wary of challenging Mr. Clinton on the issue, and it is unclear whether the Senate will even take up a tax cut of any size in the few weeks remaining before Congress adjourns early next month. Because of the Senate's parliamentary rules, it would be all but impossible for the chamber to pass a tax cut with fewer than 60 votes. Republicans hold 55 Senate seats and several of the party's moderates have said they cannot support a tax cut of more than $30 billion over five years.
Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Republican leaders in the House, however, contend that it will be hard for the Senate not to act if the House passes a tax-cut bill in the next several weeks. Earlier this summer Mr. Gingrich was pushing for a much bigger tax cut, but today he said he would settle on a smaller package this year in the hopes of pushing through a more ambitious reduction next year.
"I think somewhere in the $70 to $80 billion range would be the most likely tax cut this fall," Mr. Gingrich said at a news conference this afternoon after meeting with his leadership team, referring to the amount of the tax cut over the next five years.
Asked whether the tax cut would be completely financed by using the surplus, Mr. Gingrich replied, "Virtually all of it, yes."
Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, is drafting a tax bill for the Republicans and could have it ready for the panel at the end of next week, aides said.
The bill will probably include a tax cut for some two-income couples, tax breaks for farmers and ranchers who have been hit hard by an economic downturn in agriculture and an increase in the income that retirees can earn without losing some of their Social Security benefits.
Republicans are also considering changes to the alternative minimum tax, which is intended to insure that wealthy people do not escape taxes through shelters and other sophisticated strategies, but which now applies to growing numbers of middle-income people. Mr. Archer has also supported allowing self-employed people to deduct more of their health-insurance costs.
"The American people today are having a bigger percentage of the G.D.P. taken away from them in Federal taxes than at any time in peacetime history," Mr. Archer said, referring to the share of the nation's gross domestic product accounted for by total Federal revenue."That's why we have a surplus. And we believe that it's appropriate to save Social Security and to give back part of that to badly hit Americans."
In addition to the looming confrontation over taxes, Congress appears headed toward a showdown with the White House over the spending bills needed to keep the Government operating. The Administration has issued veto threats against seven bills as passed by the House and two of the Senate versions. With the start of a new fiscal year on Oct. 1, both parties are taking seriously the possibility that a standoff could lead to a partial shutdown of those Government departments whose budgets have not been approved.
Jacob Lew, the White House budget director, said a tax cut that would be paid for by the surplus would be "inviting the kind of confrontation we all hope to avoid," although he said the White House would be happy to consider a tax cut that could be paid for by offsetting spending cuts.
Mr. Lew said it would be up to the Republicans to decide whether to seek a confrontation over the spending bills, which would cut financing for many of Mr. Clinton's priorities or reshape policy in areas like education and the environment.
Democrats had been looking forward to debating Republicans on the campaign trail this fall over taxes, spending and the best way to help Social Security. But with attention focused on Mr. Clinton's battle with the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, it is unclear how much political mileage either party will squeeze from budget issues.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (60%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (60%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); IMPEACHMENT (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



282 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1902 words

HEADLINE: Five Precious Pages Renew Wrangling Over Anne Frank

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL 

 BODY:
More than 50 years after they were written in a secret refuge from the Nazis, long-suppressed pages from the diary of Anne Frank have given her story a new twist and set off a furor over exploitation of one of history's top best sellers, only recently republished in a supposedly "definitive" edition.
In the new-found entries -- actually five pages of diary revisions censored by Anne's father, Otto -- Anne picks apart her parents' strained marriage, analyzes her own difficult relations with her mother, Edith, and vows to keep the diary out of her family's hands as "none of their business." 
 "For a woman in love it cannot be easy to know that she will never occupy the first place in her husband's heart, and mother knew," Anne says. "Father appreciates mother and loves her, but not with the kind of love that I envisage for a marriage."
As for her diary -- which became one of the world's best-known books, published in 56 languages -- Anne says, "I shall also take care that nobody can lay hands on it."
The pages augmenting the diary were given last year to Melissa Muller, an Austrian journalist researching the first biography of the Jewish girl in Amsterdam who put an indelible human face on the Holocaust.
But in a peculiar turn, Ms. Muller, 31, is now seeing her new book, "Anne Frank: The Biography" (Metropolitan Books, a division of Henry Holt), come out with only paraphrases of the unpublished material because holders of the Anne Frank copyright denied her permission to quote its contents.
Meanwhile, plans are being advanced for updated editions of the diary to include the new material in full. And an A&E television biography "Anne Frank: The Missing Pages," based on Ms. Muller's book, is scheduled for broadcast on Tuesday with shots of the pages.
In a measure of how intense the maneuvering has become, an Amsterdam newspaper, Het Parool, published the disputed segments last month and also posted them on its Web page on the Internet.
"For me this is terrible," Ms. Muller said in a series of telephone interviews from Europe amid a crossfire of recriminations.
At issue are diary revisions written by Anne as she and her family hid in their refuge from German occupiers, a secret annex over Otto Frank's busy foodstuff warehouse.
The missing entries, which were hinted at in a scholarly version of Anne's diary published in 1986, were supplied to Ms. Muller by Cornelis Suijk, international director of the Anne Frank Center U.S.A. at 584 Broadway in Manhattan and an intimate of Mr. Frank, the family's sole survivor. His wife and two daughters died in German concentration camps.
Mr. Suijk (pronounced SOWK), a 74-year-old economist and Dutch Government auditor with 33 years of affiliations with Anne Frank groups in Amsterdam and the United States, said that Mr. Frank had given him the pages shortly before his death at 91 in 1980 during a German police inquiry aimed at authenticating the diary in the face of neo-Nazi claims that it was a forgery.
By Mr. Suijk's account, Mr. Frank wanted to be able to say honestly that he no longer had any diary material in his possession, and avoid revealing anything potentially embarrassing to him or his second wife, Fritzi, whom he had married in 1953. He also wanted to avoid debate over whether he had done the right thing in publishing Anne's diary in 1947.
"We knew that something was missing but we had no idea who had it," said Bernd Elias, Anne's cousin and the chairman of the Anne Frank Fonds, or foundation, in Basel, Switzerland, which holds the copyright on the diary and receives the revenue from publication.
The pages themselves are being claimed by the Netherlands State Institute for War Documentation, to whom Otto Frank bequeathed custody of the diary. It has asked Mr. Suijk to turn them over but he is claiming a one-time publication right of his own under Swiss law. He has also sought a sponsor to buy the pages to raise money for his Anne Frank Center in New York.
In an interview last week, Mr. Elias said it was "absolutely illegal" for Mr. Suijk to have given the pages to Ms. Muller. Mr. Suijk, in turn, faulted the foundation for amassing what he said was at least $20 million in royalties from the diary without sharing them with Anne Frank causes around the world, including his own center, which runs education programs on the Holocaust.
Ms. Muller said the Swiss foundation was initially enthusiastic over her findings and only withdrew support after she declined to submit her manuscript for review.
Her biography includes new information that for the first time points a strong finger of suspicion at a cleaning woman, Lena van Bladeren Hartog, now dead, who may have tipped off the Germans to the Jewish families in hiding. Ms. Muller said that in going over reports of a Dutch police inquiry of 1948, she found that the woman had admitted discovering that Jews were hiding but offered inconsistent accounts of what she did with that knowledge. The woman was angry over the death of her son, a volunteer in the German Navy.
The powerful Anne Frank legend has been buffeted by disputes before. In 1952, the Broadway version pitted Otto Frank against the novelist Meyer Levin, who had written a stage adaptation that Mr. Frank felt was too focused on Jews as victims and should be universalized.
Ms. Muller said she had no hint of Mr. Suijk's secret when she sought him out. She was particularly eager for information on Anne's mother, Edith Hollander, of whom little had been written -- even by Anne. It was, she told Mr. Suijk, as if "Anne Frank had no mother."
He decided to work closely with her. Still, he said, he met with her for 11 months before deciding to reveal the missing diary material -- three sides of two blue sheets and both sides of a salmon-colored sheet.
According to Ms. Muller's biography, Mr. Frank had been intensely in love with a wealthy young woman in Frankfurt whose parents ruled out the marriage on financial grounds, leaving him heartbroken and, ultimately, devoid of passion for Edith.
In the diary revision on the blue sheets, dated Feb. 8, 1944, when she was 14, Anne, addressing her fictional friend Kitty, talks about going through a period of reflection centering on her parents' marriage, always presented to her as "ideal."
She says she knows "a thing or two" about her father's past and, supplemented by her imagination, concludes that her father married her mother because "he deemed her the right person to be his wife."
"I must say that I admire my mother for the way she has filled that position without a murmur and without jealousy, as far as I can tell," Anne continues. Farther along she says, "Father is not in love, he gives her a kiss the way he kisses us."
As for her mother, Anne says: "Quite possibly because of her great sacrifice Mother has grown hard and disagreeable toward her surroundings and, consequently, she will drift further and further away from the path of love, will gain less and less admiration and, no doubt, Father will eventually come to realize that because externally she has never claimed his full love, she has crumbled away bit by bit internally. She loves him more than anybody else and it is hard to see this kind of love unanswered time and again."
Hence, she says, shouldn't she feel compassion for her mother? "Should I help her? And my father?"
No, she decides. Her mother has never told Anne about herself, nor has Anne asked her to; she describes a silence of near-strangers. She writes: "I am unable to talk with her, I cannot look lovingly into those cold eyes. I cannot, never! -- If she had only one aspect of an understanding mother, either tenderness or kindness, or patience or something else, I would keep trying to approach her. But, as the days go by, I find myself more and more unable to love this insensitive nature and mocking countenance. Yours Anne."
The salmon-colored sheet was Anne's revision of an introduction to the diary. Her parents and her sister, Margot, may be confidants, she writes, "yet my diary and the secrets I share with my friends are none of their business."
Anne's diary is really a succession of books and loose pages. She had been given a blank autograph album bound in red-and-green checkered cloth and secured with a simple keyless lock, for her 13th birthday, on June 12, 1942, a month before the family went into hiding.
Within six months, Anne had filled the makeshift diary, going on to a second notebook, which was lost, and two following notebooks. These became known as version A.
After hearing a Dutch radio broadcast urging citizens to preserve their histories of the war, Anne, over a period of two and a half months starting in May 1944, began revising her diary, rewriting 324 pages, perhaps as the basis for a novel. This became known as version B.
After the annex was raided by the Gestapo on Aug. 4, 1944, Anne's writings were preserved by Miep Gies, now 89, a devoted secretary for her father's business who had bravely kept the family's secret. When Mr. Frank, liberated at the Auschwitz death camp, returned to Amsterdam and learned that Anne and her elder sister, Margot, had died of typhus in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in early 1945, weeks before the British liberation, Mrs. Gies presented him with the diaries.
Mr. Frank released a heavily edited version of B for its American publication as "Anne Frank: Diary of a Young Girl" in 1947. That became known as version C.
In 1986, the Institute for War Documentation in Amsterdam, which had been given custody of the diaries, published a so-called critical edition, comparing the versions, with scientific analysis, to refute any claims they were forgeries.
A footnote to the A version acknowledged the omission, at the family's request, of a 47-line segment that gave "an extremely unkind and particularly unfair picture of her parents' marriage." But in the B version there was no mention of anything missing -- namely the 74 lines of revisions Mr. Frank withheld.
In 1995, Doubleday, now part of Random House, issued a "definitive edition" timed to the 50th anniversary of Anne's death and including 30 percent more material than Otto Frank had allowed for the originally published C version. But this also lacked the revised entries that have now emerged.
Stuart Applebaum, senior vice president at Random House, said that any move to republish the book with the missing material would have to await a resolution of the legal claims.
"It's impossible for us to get beyond the rancor now," he said. Doubleday, which has North American hardcover publication rights to the diary, and Bantam, which has paperback rights, would not expect to pay additional money to republish with the new material, he said.
Peter Romijn, head of reseach for the Institute for War Documentation, said that a new printing of the critical edition had been planned anyway and now should include the new material.
Ms. Muller said she learned only in June that she would not be given permission to quote the new material in her book, a decision she attributed to commercial considerations as well as a misguided effort to protect Otto Frank.
"It's not terrible that a 36-year-old man may have had an earlier love," she said. Besides, she said, "I don't care what their marriage was like. I care about the relationship of mother and daughter."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A long-withheld page from Anne Frank's diary reveals difficulties with her mother: "I am unable to talk with her, I cannot look lovingly into those cold eyes. I cannot, never!" (pg. A1); In a censored diary passage, Anne Frank debates whether she should feel compassion for her mother: "I am unable to talk with her, I cannot look lovingly into those cold eyes, I cannot, never! -- If she had only one aspect of an understanding mother, either tenderness, or kindness, or patience or something else, I would keep trying to approach her." The Frank family in Amsterdam in May 1941: from left, Margot, Otto, Anne and Edith. Mr. Frank was the only one to survive the Nazi camps. (Anne Frank Fonds/Anne Frank Stiftung Amsterdam)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ANNE FRANK: THE BIOGRAPHY (BOOK)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (90%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (90%); 

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (66%); GERMANY (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HET PAROOL (NEWSPAPER); NETHERLANDS STATE INSTITUTE FOR WAR DOCUMENTATION; ANNE FRANK FOUNDATION XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (90%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (90%); ANNE FRANK FOUNDATION (59%); ANNE FRANK FOUNDATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HET PAROOL (NEWSPAPER); NETHERLANDS STATE INSTITUTE FOR WAR DOCUMENTATION; ANNE FRANK FOUNDATION ANNE FRANK FOUNDATION (59%); ANNE FRANK FOUNDATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM (NETHERLANDS); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (66%); GERMANY (66%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND OTHER MINORITIES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; DIARIES; CENSORSHIP; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB CENSORSHIP (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); HOLOCAUST (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); WRITERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LITERATURE (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (65%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; FRANK, ANNE (1929-45); FRANK, OTTO (D 1980); MULLER, MELISSA MELISSA MULLER (90%); ANNE FRANK (89%); CORNELIS SUIJK (77%); OTTO FRANK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



283 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-19
 
Communists Tell Yeltsin They May Impeach Him
The Communist legislators who dominate Russia's Parliament threatened to pursue impeachment proceedings against President Boris N. Yeltsin if he again named Viktor S. Chernomyrdin to be Prime Minister. Mr. Yeltsin, meanwhile, huddled with advisers and pondered whom to nominate for a second day. A1
 
U.S. to Aid North Korea
The United States has agreed to send an unusually large shipment of emergency food aid to North Korea, despite the North's recent launching of a medium-range missile over Japan. A3 

Panel on Nazi Gold Disbands
An international commission set up 52 years ago to return gold that Nazi Germany seized from the central banks of countries that it occupied closed its books and disbanded after returning most of the last six tons to the original claimants. A6
 
Iran Keeps Its Option Open
Iran's President said that his country would act "in whichever way we see fit" to resolve a potentially explosive dispute with the militant Taliban Islamic movement that controls most of neighboring Afghanistan. In the last week, Iran has massed some 70,000 troops on the border, prompting expressions of deep concern in Washington. A11
 
Wife of Chinese Dissident Held
Security agents dragged the wife of a jailed dissident through the lobby of the Hilton Hotel in Beijing and detained her, moments before the visiting United Nations human rights commissioner gave a speech in a nearby room on democracy and freedom. The dissident's wife was waiting to ask the commissioner to press the case of her husband. She was later released. A13
 
Anger Escalates in Cambodia
Restless mobs milled about the capital of Cambodia, Phnom Penh, as opposition leaders who had stoked their anger said they were powerless to calm the crowds or prevent the violence that is eroding hopes for stability in the country. A15
 
U.N. Keeps Iraq Sanctions
The Security Council voted unanimously to deprive Iraq of any hope of having sanctions lifted until President Saddam Hussein resumes cooperation with United Nations arms inspectors. A10
 
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright hit back at a former United Nations arms inspector and other critics who have charged that she attempted to scuttle the inspections. She again held out the possibility that the United States would use military force against Iraq if President Hussein continued to refuse to allow additional weapons inspections. A10
 
Fleeing Albanians Trapped
As many as 40,000 ethnic Albanians, mostly women, children and old men, were trapped in western Kosovo as they tried to flee from an advancing Serbian armored column, a United Nations official said. A8
 
NATIONAL A20-31
 
Starr Delivers His Report On President to Congress
After a four-year investigation that cost more than $40 million, the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, sent to Congress a report that prosecutors said holds "substantial and credible information" that could constitute grounds for the impeachment of President Clinton. A1
 
President Clinton pleaded for forgiveness and another chance from his party's leaders and its rank and file, rallying support even as prosecutors were delivering to Congress the results of their inquiry. A1
 
The much-anticipated report that might contain evidence to impeach President Clinton arrived on a sun-splotched Capitol Hill with all the warning of a lightning bolt. A31
 
Refugees Jailed, Study Finds
Thousands of immigrants and refugees are in United States jails, mixed with convicted criminals and often treated as such, because the Immigration and Naturalization Service has nowhere else to hold them while they await deportation or a solution to their immigration status, a human-rights organization said. A20
 
Church and State in a New Light
A renowned letter by Thomas Jefferson has been seized upon by conservative Christian leaders, who say an analysis of the letter by the Library of Congress is authoritative evidence that can be used in the courts to knock down the barrier between religion and government. A20
 
Campaign Bill Rises Again
The Senate resurrected an overhaul of the nation's campaign finance laws, seven months after tossing the bill into the legislative dust bin. A22
 
Tobacco and Liquor Ads Limited
Los Angeles city council passed a measure that will virtually eliminate outdoor alcohol and tobacco advertising there. A22
 
Republicans Press Tax Cut
House Republican leaders said they would press for a tax cut of up to $80 billion over five years and pay for it by dipping into budget surpluses. A26
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-11
 
Swissair Investigators Find Evidence of Fire's Location
Investigators in Nova Scotia said they had their first evidence of the location of a fire that apparently caused the crash of Swissair 111, which went down a few minutes after the pilots reported smoke in the cockpit. B11
 
Police Release Tape of Rally
In an effort to show that police actions at Saturday's youth rally in Harlem were justified, Commissioner Howard W. Safir released portions of a police videotape of the rally in which officers mounted the stage only after they were attacked by demonstrators hurling chairs and other debris. B1
 
Anguish in Poughkeepsie
Anguished relatives of two of the eight women whose bodies were unearthed last week in a squalid Poughkeepsie home interrupted the arraignment of the slaying suspect, demanding that the bodies be released for funerals without a new round of autopsies. B5
 
Doctors' Union Wins Ruling
Finding that medical practice has changed significantly in the era of managed care, the National Labor Relations Board has resuscitated faltering efforts to organize doctors by ordering for the first time a full hearing on a union's petition to represent physicians in private practice. B6
 
CIRCUITS G1-12
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-18
 
LIVING ARTS E1-12
 
The Secrets of Anne Frank
More than 50 years after they were written in a secret refuge from the Nazis, long suppressed pages from the diary of Anne Frank have given her story a new twist and set off a furor over exploitation of one of history's top best sellers. A1
 
OBITUARIES B12
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
Japan Cuts Interest Rate To a Quarter of 1 Percent
In a desperate attempt to lift Japan out of its worst recession since World War II, the nation's central bank tonight said it would cut a key interest rate to the extraordinarily low rate of one-quarter of 1 percent. C1
 
Dow Ends Day Down 155 Points
Stocks slumped as several companies warned that third-quarter profits would be lower than expected and euphoria over possible interest-rate cuts seemed to dissipate. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 155.76 points, or 1.94 percent. C1
 
Digital Workers Tell of Threats
Five current and former employees of the Digital Equipment said their company was forced to drop a planned Internet product after threats by the chairman of Microsoft, William H. Gates. The allegations appear to support Government contentions that Microsoft routinely suppresses competition. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
EDITORIAL A32-33
 
Editorials: A somber day in Washington; glimmer of a West Bank deal; races for Congress in New York City; Kurosawa's gift.
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E8
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E6
 
Weather C22

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALBANIA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); CHINA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (91%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALBANIA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); CHINA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TALIBAN (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (54%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



284 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan Lowers Overnight Rate Near Zero Level

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 9

 BODY:
In an attempt to lift Japan out of its worst recession since World War II, the nation's central bank said today that it would reduce an important interest rate to the extraordinarily low level of one-quarter of 1 percent.
The Bank of Japan had resisted lowering rates, in part because they were already the lowest in the world. Today, however, it conceded that Japanese needed to prevent the economy -- which is already staggering under a burden of shrinking demand, tumbling corporate profit, sliding prices and rising unemployment -- from sinking further. 
 The rate cut, intended to make funds cheaper, comes as economists here and abroad have been calling on Japan to stimulate the economy, the world's second largest, and help avert recession elsewhere.
But with Japanese interest rates negligible, it will be extremely difficult for the central bank here to navigate monetary policy.
"They may have used their last bullet," said Robert Alan Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Tokyo. "They've already cut rates this far and it's probably helped, but it hasn't offset headwinds from elsewhere."
Traders reacted sharply, sending Japan's currency down almost 4 percent to a rate of 137 to the dollar. Early Thursday, the yen improved, standing in late morning at 135.13 to the dollar.
The Japanese authorities had been willing to risk a loss in the yen, which strengthened considerably in recent days, in an attempt to stimulate economic activity.
"The timing is appropriate in light of the instability in the financial markets," said Masaru Hayami, the central bank governor, at a news conference tonight. "It will help bring stability to the markets."
Mr. Hayami tried to deflect speculation that the rate reduction was made as part of an arrangement, perhaps tacit, with the United States and other major economies to avert a global slowdown.
"There was no international discussion at all," he said.
American and Japanese officials said the prospect of a cut did not come up during Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa's meetings on Friday with Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan.
United States officials in Washington have periodically discussed whether to press Japan for the kind of interest rate cut announced today. Some in the Treasury Department have recently said that a reduction would signal that Japan would welcome a dose of inflation to counteract the deflation that is afflicting the economy. Consumers, the thinking goes, would be spurred to make purchases before inflation sets in, injecting some spending into the economy.
But when interest rates are already hovering just above zero, it is unclear how much economic activity a rate cut can generate. And in any case, American officials say, Japan's problem has not been that rates are too high, but rather than many banks will not lend money at all as they try to stave off insolvency.
"This could be a help," said an American official in Washington who is involved with the Asian crisis, "but not much of a help. By itself, it won't accomplish much."
The interest rate cut is more significant in signaling a shift in policy than in its ability to make funds much cheaper. The overnight interbank rate -- similar to the Federal funds rate in the United States -- has been just under one-half of a percent for the last three years. By contrast, the rate in the United States is 5.5 percent.
One reason the central bank here had resisted lowering the interest rate was that all but one of its nine policy board members had said they wanted to save a rate cut for a real economic emergency.
Another way of easing monetary policy is to increase the supply of funds by printing more money and pouring it into the financial system. But it is one that the Bank of Japan has shied away from because it is not as precise as manipulating interest rates. Today, however, the central bank also said it would supply a large amount of liquidity into the money market, if necessary, regardless of the level of overnight interest rates. Doing so, in essence, could make the borrowing of funds virtually free.
"It's a welcome development but it's probably too little, too late," said Peter Morgan, an economist with HSBC Securities here. "They think that things are bad enough that they can break the glass and bring about a rate cut."
And in a speech in Washington, David H. Komansky, chairman and chief executive of Merrill Lynch, said today that he doubted an interest rate cut "by itself would be enough to stimulate the economy."
"In order to begin to make progress in Japan," Mr. Komansky said to the National Press Club, "our feeling is that the financial industry, primarily the banks, have to be restructured and there have to be permanent tax cuts. These are going to be very, very painful moves. But unless these actions are taken, or until such times as these actions are taken, I would doubt" that the quarter-point rate cut would affect the Japanese economy.
The central bank's move came a day after a top economic official, Taichi Sakaiya, released an assessment saying that Japan's economy was in an "extremely severe" situation. Mr. Sakaiya added that the global economy was "at the threshold of an extremely difficult phase."
Tonight, the Bank of Japan acknowledged that the level of economic activity had fallen considerably, adding it did not deny the possibility of a "further deterioration."
The further shrinkage in the economy -- deflation -- is particularly worrisome because the Government has been trying to increase growth through public spending. It is carrying out big tax cuts and is already beginning to pour about $120 billion into the economy as part of a huge fiscal-stimulus package.
The Finance Ministry earlier in the day released figures showing that capital spending in the second quarter fell 10.6 percent from the similar period a year earlier, the largest drop in years.
And with deflation, real interest rates become higher for borrowers.
Mr. Hayami, the central bank governor, said the rate reduction had been made in part to prevent Japan's economy from "falling into a deflationary spiral," in which prices and profits collapse faster and faster.
Both Mr. Sakaiya's remarks and the rate cut come two days before the scheduled release of economic data for the second quarter, and some economists said these moves could be a foreshadowing of more bad news. Japan's economy shrank in the first quarter at an annualized rate of 5.3 percent, and while some economists had expected the economy in the second quarter to contract less than 1 percent on an annual basis, that may be too optimistic.
Japan's banks and corporations will settle their half-year accounts at the end of this month, and one of the central bank's main concerns is to keep the markets flush with money to prevent a sudden liquidity squeeze as banks and corporations negotiate for funds to settle contracts and close their accounts. It was such a squeeze last fall that helped lead to the failure of four financial institutions and a market plunge.
"Maybe they know something about the financial system," Mr. Feldman of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter said.
Indeed, in stock market trading earlier today, investors drove down the share price of Fuji Bank, as rumors circulated that the bank had sustained losses of about two trillion yen, or $14.6 billion, from derivatives, risky financial instruments based on the value of underlying securities. Terunobu Maeda, a managing director at Fuji Bank, denied the rumors at a news conference today, saying they were "totally groundless."
"We have lost about 15.5 billion yen at most," he said. Fuji Bank's share price has fallen by more than half in the last two months, and today, it hit a yearly low of 320 yen at one point and ended at 329 yen.
After the close of the market today, Daiwa Securities said it had lost more than $100 million on Russian, Latin American, Asian and other emerging-market debt in August. It was the latest in a series of institutions to announce such losses.
The last time the central bank cut interest rates was in September 1995, when it lowered the official discount rate, the overnight rate it charges private banks, to half a percent. Bankers say it is unlikely to lower that rate now. The interbank rate it lowered today is essentially the money market rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans.
The financial system has been teetering as Parliament debates how to deal with the nation's very large and very sick banks. At issue in particular is the fate of the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, one of the largest institutions.
The Government wants to use tax money to save the bank, while the opposition parties want to attach strict conditions for doing so. The debate had stymied the passage of six bills that the Government hopes will stabilize the financial system.
Today, however, the governing Liberal Democratic Party and the opposition groups seemed close to a compromise that would allow for quick passage of the financial legislation, perhaps before Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi visits the United States to meet President Clinton later this month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); TRENDS (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



285 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

A Sharp Decline in Stocks
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 155.76 points as euphoria over an interest-rate cut abated and several companies warned earnings would be below estimates. Page C1. 

U.S. Aid to North Korea
American officials say the United States has quietly agreed to send a large shipment of food to North Korea, despite its recent launching of a missile over Japan. Page A3.
 
Indefinite Sanctions for Iraq
The Security Council voted unanimously to deprive Iraq of any hope of having sanctions lifted until it resumes cooperation with United Nations arms inspectors. Page A10.
 
Yankees Clinch Division Title
The Yankees beat the Red Sox and clinched on the earliest date in their history since division play began in 1969. SportsThursday, page C23.
 
New Evidence of Plane Fire
Investigators in the crash of Swissair Flight 111 say they have found signs of a fire in an electronics bay near the nose of the plane. Page B11.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: SWISSAIR AG (56%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



286 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Berea Journal;
A College of Few Parties And Fewer Complaints

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: BEREA, Ky., Sept. 9

 BODY:
Nobody calls Berea College a party school.
It has no fraternities or sororities. The campus and most of the county surrounding it are dry. There is no movie theater in town. Only seniors can own cars. Smoking is severely restricted, even though this is tobacco country. And there are no football weekends, because there is no football team. 
 Must be a religious school, you say. Well, yes and no. It was founded in 1855 by the Rev. John G. Fee, a Presbyterian minister, in what was then a wilderness, where the Bluegrass meets Appalachia. But it is affiliated with no denomination and lives by no dogma, fundamentalist or otherwise. And it has Buddhists and Muslims as well as Christians on its faculty and in its student body.
There is nothing drab or monastic about Berea. The campus is a leafy, pretty, neo-Georgian place, the teachers are talented and enthusiastic, a rich variety of extracurricular activities and organizations are available, and there are intramural and intercollegiate teams in a large number of sports.
The entrance requirements are a little odd, especially the one that says only students from families with incomes below $44,000 a year will even be considered. About 80 percent of the student body is drawn from the hard-luck hills and hollows, villages and cities of southern Appalachia. Berea must be the only college in the country that hangs out a sign: Rich kids need not apply.
It charges no tuition. It requires each of its 1,500 students to work at least 10 or 15 hours a week in a wide range of jobs. Some make brooms or weave cloth in the craft shops, some operate the college's computers, some work in the Berea Hospital, and some wait on tables at the Boone Tavern Hotel near the campus.
Which may explain why the students, most of them at least, voice no complaints about the lack of social facilities taken for granted elsewhere.
"We're all in the same boat here," said Tyra Lainhart, 27, a junior from Erlanger, Ky., who came to Berea, married, had a baby, dropped out, divorced, worked as a prison guard and this summer returned to college. "We have a common bond in our economic situation. Nobody has money for a lot of extra stuff. The money you earn from your job goes to pay for books, room and board."
Angela Hale, a 22-year-old senior from Childersburg, Ala., said that when she went home on vacation some of her friends, students at Tuskegee University and elsewhere, talked "mainly about parties and fashion." Ms. Hale, who had never been out of her home state before she came to Berea, said she was glad to be on a campus "where it's never about what you wear and what you look like."
Many of the students said that if they had not come to Berea, they could not have gone to college anywhere, at least not to an institution that seeks to provide a high-quality four-year liberal arts education. Fully 70 percent of them are the first in their families to go to college. Some had never spent a night away from home before coming here. Many take their first plane flight when they make a college-sponsored or -aided trip to Europe during their time here.
"It's a culture shock," said Larry D. Shinn, the college's president. "The leap from Paint Lick or Stone Gap or Stinking Creek to a tough academic environment in the big city of Berea, population 10,000, takes some doing."
Berea was the first college in the South to admit blacks and women on an equal basis. An outgrowth of the struggle against slavery, it was the creation of Mr. Fee and a fiery abolitionist named Cassius M. Clay, who opened meetings by laying a Bible, a copy of the Constitution and a bowie knife on the lectern -- the Bible, he explained, for those who believed in God, the Constitution for those who believed in man, and the knife for those who believed in neither.
Mr. Shinn, a former professor at Oberlin College and administrator at Bucknell University, makes no sweeping claims for Berea's academic standards, though more than 55 percent of its graduates earn advanced degrees and the college regularly scores well in U.S. News & World Report's annual ratings.
"I think I have a realistic notion of what we are and what we're not," he said. "We're not in the top 10 among liberal arts colleges, but we're in the top 50, and we provide an education of real excellence. It's a question of money. Williams College spends $51,000 per year per student; we spend $18,800."
The teacher-student ratio is as good as Harvard's, but teachers carry heavier loads. Students help renovate dormitories. Berea's endowment is $525 million, but it has no tuition income, and it has fewer rich alumni than many colleges. What is more, it turns down the children of the rich alumni it does have, because of the $44,000 income lid. Nonetheless, it raised $17 million last year, more than 80 percent from non-alumni.
The struggle binds the place together and creates "a strong foundation," said one of the college's star students, Addie Sine, 20, from Knoxville, Tenn., the daughter of a single mother.
"It's like our own little culture," she said. "It's a secure place. You know that next year the trees will be in the same place and the teachers will come back because they love teaching here. Most of all, the students will be people who want to be here, who need to be here because it's a chance to make something of themselves, not because someone told them to go to college."
Wendy Stephens, 21, a soft-spoken psychology major from Whitley City, Ky., agreed. What worries her, she said, "is this: When we graduate, into a world where everyone is obsessed with money and possessions, will we be able to deal with real life?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: For a century and a half, Berea College has remained true to its mission: providing a quality education solely for students of modest means. (Photographs by Stewart Bowman)
 
Map showing the location of Berea: Berea attracts hundreds of students from southern Appalachia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (72%); 

COMPANY: BEREA COLLEGE BEREA COLLEGE (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEREA COLLEGE BEREA COLLEGE (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN REGION; UNITED STATES (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (72%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION RELIGION (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SMOKING (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (70%); FABRICS (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



287 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
CASE PLANS JOB CUTS AND EXPECTS EARNINGS DROP

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
The Case Corporation said yesterday that it would cut 1,000 jobs by the end of the year in response to expected lower demand for agricultural equipment. The company, based in Racine, Wis., said that it would take a reorganization charge of $70 million to $80 million in the second half of 1998, linked to the job cuts, and that 1998 earnings were expected to be about 25 percent below comparable 1997 results. Case, which makes agricultural and construction equipment and provides financial services, said the reduction in demand was caused by a lower projected farm income in many of the company's major markets and deteriorating economic conditions in emerging markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CNH (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CASE CORP CNH GLOBAL NV (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CASE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES LAYOFFS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); BANKING & FINANCE (83%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



288 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Why Should Russia Get Tough on Taxes?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
You claim that the Russian Government's printing of rubles, as proposed by Acting Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, would guarantee a period of hyperinflation and the turning off of foreign investment and International Monetary Fund assistance (editorial, Sept. 5). 
 The Russian economy today resembles Franklin D. Roosevelt's economy in the 1930's, with comparable unemployment of labor and capital. Under these circumstances, the increase in tax collections to move closer to a balanced budget may poison any economic system. When Roosevelt did this in 1937, he produced a sharp decline in economic activity in the 1938 recession rather than any significant increase in the rate of inflation.
The hyperinflation danger is today a bogyman, as can be seen in the experience of Belarus, where wages and pensions are paid regularly and output is growing by double-digit proportions, as a result of the printing of Belarussian rubles.
 
LYNN TURGEON
Ann Arbor, Mich., Sept. 5, 1998
 
The writer is professor emeritus of economics at Hofstra University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; CURRENCY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); INFLATION (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); BUDGETS (71%); TRENDS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: TURGEON, LYNN FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



289 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Why Should Russia Get Tough on Taxes?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I'm not convinced that Russians will get by no matter how tough things get (Week in Review, Sept. 7). 
 I propose that we spend $22 billion a year for five years to insure that every individual over 65 in Russia, some 18 million of them, receives $100 a month in United States currency. This would not by itself solve Russia's economic problems, but it would go a long way toward promoting stability.
The $100 would surely be spent on necessities, opening up pathways of supply and starting up circles of employment and self-employment where little or none existed before.
The $22 billion would reflect our own self-interest. It could also reflect our recognition of the suffering and heroism of a generation, now elderly, that defeated Hitler's armies and endured Communism and the cold war.
 
MARVIN GREGORY
Renton, Wash., Sept. 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLD WAR (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GREGORY, MARVIN

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



290 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 10, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section G; Page 10; Column 3; Circuits 

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: LIBRARY/PRESCRIPTION DRUG SITES;
Places to Check Out the Pills for Your Ills

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:
IF you are like most Americans, your medicine cabinet is packed with a pricey assortment of pills and potions, evidence that we, as a country, like to feel good. And some of the newer pills -- say, Viagra and Prozac -- can make even others feel good about you.
Americans are the largest consumers of prescription drugs in the world, spending some $94 billion for them last year, according to IMS Health, a health care consulting company. This year's tally should be ever higher, thanks especially to Viagra, a treatment for impotency, which is expected to rack up a record $1 billion in sales in its first year on the market. Stockholders in the world's pharmaceutical companies have come to expect blockbuster sales, so the companies have been forced to churn out blockbuster remedies faster than before. This year, Merck & Company, the nation's largest pharmaceutical company, released five new drugs that treat everything from migraines to asthma. 
 And there are plenty more on the way. Within a year, Lipha Pharmaceuticals, a German subsidiary of Merck, expects to release Campral, a drug to help alcoholics wean themselves from drinking, in the United States. For people who cannot knock off at night, American Home Products will soon roll out Sonata, a sleeping pill that the company says has fewer groggy after-effects than some of its competitors.
It is easy to get buried in the drug avalanche, unable to distinguish the side effects of antihistamines like Claritin and Allegra. If the unthinkable happens and you become impotent, what are Viagra's advantages over Caverject? It makes a difference -- one is a pill and one is a shot.
"Within the last several years, the entire process of pharmaceutical research has sped up," said Dr. Jeffrey Adelglass, a Dallas physician. "With some of the pharmaceutical sites now available on the Web, I can get medical information as fast or faster than anyone else in the country."
Several sites can help you find out how a drug should be taken, while others blow the whistle on the inaccuracy of some of the drug makers' advertisements. The Food and Drug Administration, which regulates the sales and advertising of prescription drugs in this country, seldom requires a company to correct an error in its marketing. But it does have a site with information on drugs' safety records and Government reprimand letters about advertising campaigns (www.fda.gov/cder/ drug.htm). For those interested in what prescription drugs are under development, sites like www.centerwatch.com list clinical trials for pharmaceuticals and medical treatments being developed.
There are other on-line drug information resources, like the National Library of Medicine, which has put Medline, its extensive database of medical information on the Web at www.nlm.nih.gov. Merck & Company, publisher of the drug encyclopedia called The Merck Index, has put The Merck Index of Diagnosis and Therapy on its corporate home page (www.merck.com). The Merck Manual is a more general source of medical information than the Index (which is sold on CD-ROM). It is used extensively by doctors and nurses nationwide.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 11, 1998, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Circuits yesterday about prescription drug Web sites referred incorrectly to Lipha Pharmaceuticals. Lipha is a subsidiary of Merck K.G.a.A., a German company; it has no relationship to Merck & Company, an American drug manufacturer.

GRAPHIC: Photo (David Corio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (96%); MRK (NYSE) (96%); PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (96%); PFIZER INC (90%); IMS HEALTH INC (57%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (55%); NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (78%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (78%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (78%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DRUG SAFETY (76%); CLINICAL TRIALS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); LIBRARIES (62%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J JOSEPH C PAPA (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1998



291 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Britain Leaves Its Rates Alone

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
The Bank of England left its key interest rate steady today at 7.5 percent but hinted that it might lower it soon.
The decision, which had been expected, was accompanied by a statement saying the nine-member rate-setting committee thought global events might push the British inflation rate below its target. 
 The statement said the panel had "discussed extensively" the potential effect of international developments on British inflation and would continue to monitor the situation.
This was the first time the panel has issued a statement with a "no change" decision and comes after a monetary easing by Japan on Wednesday and recent comments by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, indicating a potential cut in United States interest rates.
The Bank of England's comments are bound to fuel speculation of coordinated action to ease global monetary conditions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



292 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Soars to Another Record

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit in goods, services and investments widened to a record $56.525 billion in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said today. Net foreign purchases of Treasury securities increased as international investors shifted out of United States stocks.
The current account balance is the broadest measure of the nation's international trade, covering goods and services trade, investments and financial transactions between governments. In the first quarter, the current account shortfall widened to $46.735 billion, which was initially reported as widening to $47.210 billion. 
 With the United States dollar in demand as the reserve currency worldwide and the country supplying a fourth of the world's output, the current account deficit -- which represents what the United States pays to other countries to settle all business transactions -- does not trouble most economists. "As long as people want to invest here, then we have no trouble," said Russ Sheldon, chief economist at MCM Moneywatch in New York.
"However, history teaches us that this could be quite a serious problem," if international investors sell their United States assets for economic or political reasons, Mr. Sheldon said.
And this year, weak export demand and a flood of low-price imports, both stemming from the economic turmoil in Asia, are stinging corporate earnings, "further slowing the U.S. economy," said Gerald Cohen, an economist at Merrill Lynch & Company in New York.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); 

PERSON: RUSS SHELDON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



293 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Moscow Madness From the Inside;
Investment Bank That Rode Boom Now Faces Bust

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 10

 BODY:
The gleaming marble and glass headquarters of MFK Renaissance, one of Russia's leading investment banks, stands as tangible evidence of the financial gold rush that briefly swept through here. Limousines still park by the firm's front doors, which abut the offices of Moscow's pre-eminent power broker, Mayor Yuri M. Luzhkov -- quite a change from just three years ago, when MFK Renaissance operated from the spare confines of a former hotel disco.
But inside MFK Renaissance, beyond plush royal blue carpeting and elegantly upholstered furniture, the trading floor and its computers are eerily quiet. And for good reason. Most of the bank's capital has been wiped out, most of its assets are nearly worthless, and the firm, like many other investment banks that not so long ago were speculating in Moscow's booming markets, is scrambling to stay afloat. 
 "It's like a football game here; every player has taken a hit," said Boris Jordan, 32, MFK Renaissance's avuncular -- and still-optimistic -- founder. "The real issue is who's executing their responsibilities and moving the ball forward. From that perspective, MFK Renaissance is in fine shape and remains a market leader."
Whatever its future, MFK's meteoric rise and sudden implosion is more than just a tale of how quickly this boom town has become a financial ghost town. It is also a parable of international finance in the 1990's that reveals how those who exploited the advantages of free markets and the unfettered flow of capital around the world are being swept up in the whirlwind.
"I think the lesson people will take from this is that the domino theory does work and there can be massive financial contagion," said Tom Ashead, co-head of research at Brunswick Warburg, a Moscow brokerage firm. "But the contagion only revealed weaknesses that were already apparent in Russia, and they were weaknesses many investors chose not to see."
For his part, Mr. Jordan was uniquely positioned to play a role near the center of Russia's awful economic management. While still only in his 20's, Mr. Jordan, a grandson of Soviet-era refugees who emigrated to America, was already a key adviser to the Russian Government. These services were combined with investment banking pursuits that placed Mr. Jordan at the heart of financial schemes that only postponed the day of reckoning for the Russian economy -- and may have made it even worse.
Mr. Jordan, a native of Long Island, was part of a large contingent of Russian-Americans who arrived in Moscow in the late 1980's and early 1990's. Some were motivated by an interest in rebuilding the country. Others simply had dollar signs in their eyes. In either case, it proved easy to set up shop.
"People thought that if you had a Russian accent and some education you could be an investment banker or a stockbroker or anything else you wanted to be," said Andrei Bogolubov, the Russian-American president of AB Image, a public relations firm in Moscow and a consultant to MFK Renaissance. "That seems like a long time ago now."
Mr. Jordan had worked at the American investment banking firm Kidder, Peabody & Company, which no longer exists, and an Irish aircraft leasing company, before taking a job here with Credit Suisse First Boston in 1992. He then managed to win Credit Suisse a position as an adviser to Moscow as the Russian Government began a huge privatization of state-owned companies. That campaign ended up turning them over mostly to insiders -- some of whom are suspected of milking the assets for their own purposes -- and to politically connected robber barons.
Mr. Jordan left Credit Suisse to start what became MFK Renaissance in 1995, the same year that the second phase of privatization began. At the heart of this new phase was a controversial program begun in 1995 and known as loans-for-shares. The program allowed a handful of banks led by a powerful clique of Russian businessmen dubbed the "oligarchs" to lend the Government money in return for receiving controlling stakes in many of Russia's most significant industrial concerns.
It was a process fraught with accusations of sweetheart deals and influence peddling, and Mr. Jordan was at the center of the action. His firm, Renaissance Capital, developed a close alliance with Vladimir Potanin, a former Government official and an oligarch who was the head of Uneximbank, a Russian bank that gained control of several large nickel and oil companies. Uneximbank is an investor in the entity they put together, MFK Renaissance.
Mr. Jordan's ascent, his financial holdings, and his contacts within the Russian Government led officials from the United States to call on him when they were in town. He attracted the hot money of hedge fund gurus like George Soros and Michael Dingman. Mr. Soros has an undisclosed sum invested with MFK Renaissance while Mr. Dingman, who sits on the board of Sidanko, a Russian oil concern controlled by Messrs. Jordan and Potanin, also holds an equity stake in the firm.
Mr. Dingman has been criticized for financial wheeling and dealing in the Czech Republic that ended up ruining many individual investors there, but Mr. Dingman said that criticism was "unfair" and does not apply to his investment activities here. "It's an example of what I didn't do and am not doing in Russia," Mr. Dingman said. "My commitment to Russia is deliberately long term."
In the meantime, as Mr. Jordan and his firm grew richer, the Russian securities market was percolating. New Russian Government short-term securities that paid whopping interest rates, GKO's, attracted a whole new crew of investors to Russia in 1996 and 1997. Suddenly, Moscow seemed to be one of the world's most promising financial centers and MFK Renaissance was one of the most active participants in the GKO market. "It was like you could hear the sound of money being made in the streets," said an executive with an American investment bank here who requested anonymity. "It sorted of wafted up into your apartment or hotel window."
But for some not caught up in the thrill of the money mill's churning, it sounded more like a casino gone wild.
"It was a classic sort of bubble and there was a lot of betting," said Al Breach, an economist with the Russian-European Center for Economic Policy. "People bought because the market was going up, not because the fundamentals were sound. Lots of investors, serious investors, didn't even know there were big Government deficits here. It became ridiculous."
In fact, the GKO's paid such lofty interest rates -- 30 percent to 50 percent annually and as high as 150 percent earlier this spring -- because the Russian Government's deficit was ballooning.
A key factor in Russia's collapse was a failure to collect taxes, which were supposed to replace the revenues previously generated by state-owned enterprises. And with oil prices collapsing, Russia could no longer count on enough money from what had been its most valuable resource. Without enough revenues to pay its bills, and to support ailing local banks that owned the bonds, Russia issued more GKO's with ever-higher interest rates attractive to foreign and domestic investors -- a short-term fix that eventually buried the Government under a pyramid of debt that collapsed last month.
That in turn touched off a devaluation of the Russian ruble, contributing to international fears about the soundness of other emerging markets as well.
"Unfortunately, I think the GKO market didn't bring any real investment to the Russian economy," said Dmitri Vasiliev, chairman of Russia's Federal Commission for the Securities Market. "It just covered very high Government deficits."
Anyone close to the Russian Government, or even remotely familiar with its finances, should have seen that investing in GKO's in the absence of a sound tax policy was nothing but a speculative game.
But Mr. Jordan said he came to Moscow to help rejuvenate the economy and did not see his crucial participation in the GKO market as detrimental to Russia. He said that as an investor he had to be rewarded for the risk he took in buying the bonds and that they were "constructive" until the Government "mangled" them to plug fiscal gaps.
He is also smarting from the malaise created by the GKO debacle. An individual close to the firm and familiar with MFK Renaissance's finances said that the firm's capital, about $200 million at the end of last year, has nearly been wiped out. He said the firm had about $2 billion in assets at the end of last year that are worth about $200 million now -- and many of those assets will be entirely written off.
MFK Renaissance also owes about $100 million on hedging contracts. It is owed $200 to $300 million by local banks, but it has little chance of collecting the money since most Russian banks are now insolvent.
Mr. Jordan, who has spent lavishly renovating a home in the exclusive Zhukovka district outside Moscow, said he had no holdings abroad other than "cash" and was committed to staying in Russia unless his family was threatened by the downturn.
"We pioneered this market and didn't jump on planes when the tanks rolled in 1993 or when the market collapsed in 1995," he said. "We intend to remain at the forefront through this cycle, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Boris Jordan, foreground, the founder of MFK Renaissance, and Greg Bedrosian, the manager of an MFK fund. Limousines still park in front of the building, but inside things are quiet. Most of the bank's capital has been wiped out. (Peter Blakely/Saba)
 
Graphs: "From the Promise of Riches to Rags"
Russia's financial markets, which once signaled hopes for improvement in the economy, have collapsed, brought down by a Government that failed to generate enough revenue to pay its bills.
 
Graph shows the Russian RTS stock index, from May 1997 through Sept 1998.
 
Yesterday: 64.60
Down: 83.7%
year-to-date;
Down: 88.7% from peak
 
Graph shows the Russian ruble to the dollar, since July 1998.
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE; 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: INVESTMENT BANK FOR TRADE & FINANCE LLC (58%); INVESTMENT BANK SA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INVESTMENT BANKING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MAYORS (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); REFUGEES (62%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: BORIS JORDAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



294 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Walter Adams, 78, Expert on Corporate Power and Antitrust Issues, Dies

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Walter Adams, an antitrust expert whose concerns about concentrations of corporate power helped shape Government policy for three decades, died Tuesday at his home in East Lansing, Mich., according to a statement from Michigan State University, where he taught for 46 years. He was 78 years old.
His son, William James Adams of Ann Arbor, Mich., said the cause was pancreatic cancer. Professor Adams learned in May that he had the disease. 
 Professor Adams taught economics at Michigan State from 1947 to 1993 and served as president of the university for nine months in 1969, a time when antiwar and civil rights protests rocked the campus. He addressed those issues with such candor and good humor that more than 20,000 students and 950 faculty members signed a petition asking him to stay on as president. But he said he wanted to teach, not be an administrator.
John Kenneth Galbraith, the Harvard University economist, praised Professor Adams as a "wonderful teacher" who was "a good New Deal liberal."
He served on a Federal committee that Attorney General Herbert Brownell formed in 1953 to study antitrust laws, and he spent many summers in Washington volunteering his expertise to Congressional committees in an era when they had little or no staff.
He wrote or co-wrote 14 books warning of the dangers of concentrated economic power, including "The Bigness Complex" in 1987 and "Dangerous Pursuits: Mergers & Acquisitions in the Age of Wall Street" in 1989, both with Prof. James W. Brock of Miami University of Ohio.
"He raised enduring questions of power and control in economics and in the closely related political arena as well," Professor Brock said. "He kept alive a concern about excessive concentration of power and its dangers to a free society because it undermines good economic performance, retards innovation and tends to spread into the political sphere in lobbying aimed at creating anti-competitive public policies. He taught that we can't rest easy in the delusion that the unfettered free market will take care of everything."
Professor Adams was sharply critical of the Reagan Administration for allowing big corporate mergers. In 1988 he wrote that "the antitrust laws have been subjected to a systematic policy of euthanasia."
But William F. Baxter, a Stanford University law professor who was the Reagan Administration's antitrust chief for three years, said concern about industries in which a handful of companies can set "administered prices" and operate insulated from supply and demand "has gone from the predominant point of view to an idiosyncratic point of view."
Robert H. Bork, the failed Supreme Court nominee who is an antitrust expert and several times jousted with Professor Adams, said that "he saw concentration of industries everywhere and tended to think that industries I would think were perfectly competitively structured were not competitively structured."
Walter Adams was born in 1922 in Vienna. His family moved to Brooklyn in 1935. He graduated magna cum laude from Brooklyn College in 1942 with an economics degree and also studied at the University of Chicago. He earned his doctorate at Yale University in 1947.
In World War II he served in the 83d Infantry Division, fighting in the Battle of the Bulge, and in the 11th Armored Division. He received a battlefield commission as a lieutenant and the Bronze Star. He often described his war experiences as "the Tour de France sans bicyclette."
Professor Adams's playful side showed in an otherwise dry report in 1963 for the Senate Antitrust and Monopoly subcommittee on oligopolies.
Robert F. Lanzillotti, who was then the economics chairman at Michigan State and co-author of the report, said, "We wanted to deal with those economists who saw no merit in the theory of administered prices and who frequently supported their position by citing research that their graduate students were doing but that was not complete or published."
Professor Adams added a footnote on a study of the relationship of prices and profits by Hubertus von und Swickenstein and Boris Przmysy-Watson. Though the names were fictitious and the ruse had been reported, other researchers asked him how to get in touch with the pair.
In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Pauline, and two grandsons.
His last book, "The Tobacco Wars," written with Professor Brock, was published last week by South-Western College Publishing of Cincinnati. It was their third book to use the form of a play to teach economics.
Two weeks ago, after word of Professor Adams's illness became known around the Michigan State campus, more than 200 musicians in the college marching band, which he had supported for a half-century, came to his home to play the university fight song and alma mater for him.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Adams (Bruce Fox, 1987)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); DEATHS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); MERGERS (72%); CANCER (71%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); PETITIONS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); JUDGES (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); 

PERSON: JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH (56%); HERBERT BROWNELL JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



295 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Blocks New Funds for I.M.F.

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Rejecting pleas by the Administration, a key House committee voted today against full financing for the International Monetary Fund.
The action appears to doom efforts by the Administration and the Senate, which has already approved full funding, to replenish the fund's reserves. But Representative Bob Livingston, Republican of Louisiana and chairman of the Appropriations Committee, held out the possibility that the House could still approve the money under an agreement with the Senate. 
 It is uncertain if Mr. Livingston, who conceded today that he had been on "both sides of this issue," will prevail.
His committee, egged on by Representative Tom DeLay, the third-ranking Republican in the House, voted largely along party lines today to deny the request for $18 billion. Instead the committee voted 30 to 22 to provide only $3.4 billion.
Mr. Livingston told the committee he was voting against full financing in order to buy time to draw up more stringent operating conditions for the fund. He added that he would probably vote to approve full financing later.
He told reporters that those who want the agency to die "may well predominate," but added: "My suspicion is that there is enough support among both parties in both houses that you're going to have an I.M.F."
The White House Budget Director, Jacob Lew, wrote to Mr. Livingston today saying the full $18 billion was critical because the fund's resources were so low. "To reject or delay this funding not only would undermine America's leadership in the world, it also would expose American workers, savers, farmers and businesses to unacceptable economic risks," Mr. Lew wrote.
But it was not at all clear that in the next few weeks, as time runs out and Congress becomes overwhelmed with possible impeachment proceedings against President Clinton, the committee will be able to focus on the technical details.
As the committee voted against full funding, it approved the overall $16.2-billion bill to finance other foreign operations. But the bill has other contentious provisions and many Republicans expect that most of the 13 appropriation bills needed to keep the Government running after Oct. 1 will be folded together in one big package later -- a chaotic process that could bode ill for issues like the I.M.F. if conservatives hold firm.
The bad economic news from Russia and Asia has made some Republicans more reluctant to keep financing the agency. Mr. DeLay rushed to the committee meeting today for only a few minutes to talk about the fund, leaving talks with other members on how to handle possible impeachment proceedings.
Mr. DeLay said it would be wrong for American taxpayers to finance the agency while the agency, which he described as an anachronism in today's global economy, refused to make public its own budget and lending practices.
He also said the agency had lost sight of its original mission. "Instead of providing needed cash to basically sound enterprises, the I.M.F. is now bailing out the bankrupt," he said. He said the fund needed more money to back risky investments and "perpetuate this bail-out cycle."
Standing up for the additional money were several Democrats, who said the agency needed to be reformed but that America should send a strong signal to stem the tide of free-falling markets around the world.
"For all of its weaknesses, the I.M.F. is one of the few tools we have available to stabilize currencies," said Representative David Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin. Representative Steny Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland, said, "The psychology of U.S. action has significant and almost immediate ramifications. What we do matters."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (78%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. APPROVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); IMPEACHMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); 

PERSON: ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (79%); JACK LEW (69%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



296 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Mexico's Central Bank Fails in Attempt to Prop Up Peso

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 10

 BODY:
The central bank waded into Mexican currency markets today in a dramatic new intervention, selling nearly $500 million in dollars and tightening cash in circulation in an unsuccessful effort to support the peso, which was pressured by new panic selling in the stock market.
The Banco de Mexico's tough new measures, its first direct intervention in the currency markets since 1995, could not prevent the peso from dropping to a historic low, worth 9.49 American cents. Meanwhile, the bolsa, the Mexican stock market, plunged 9.82 percent. 
 Agitating the Mexican markets were new declines on Wall Street and mounting fears of a Brazilian currency devaluation, which could greatly worsen the continuing investor stampede out of emerging markets that has resulted from the financial crises in Asia and Russia, securities analysts said.
Treasury Secretary Jose Angel Gurria and the governor of the central bank, Guillermo Ortiz, appeared at an evening news conference, apparently orchestrated to calm the markets. Mr. Gurria said Mexico's economy was healthy, but acknowledged that international turmoil might worsen. "We can't say what will happen in Brazil tomorrow, much less next week," he said.
 The monetary measures announced today are likely to lead to further increases in Mexican interest rates, already above 45 percent, and aggravate fears among business people that the country's booming economy could slide into recession.
"The Mexican authorities are getting into some harsh monetary measures now," said Luis R. Luis, a managing director at Scudder Kemper Investments in Boston. "I'd expect rates to go higher, but they have to take these measures because international events are hitting Mexico really hard. We're just seeing a fire sale of assets."
After the peso, which has declined by more than 20 percent this year, again fell precipitously in morning trading, the central bank sold $100 million of Mexico's international reserves as part of a regular system of currency auctions. Under the terms of those auctions, the exchange rate was set as an average of bids from the country's 17 commercial banks, a senior central bank official said.
When that sale had no appreciable effect on the value of the peso, the bank's five-member board of governors decided to intervene with an extraordinary direct sale of dollars, its first such measure since December 1995, the official said. The bank sold an additional $278 million at market rates, the official said. Hours later, the bank sold $100 million more under its regular auction system.
The value of the Mexican peso floats with the market. Unlike Venezuela and Brazil, whose central banks have been selling billions of dollars in reserves to support overvalued currencies that trade within a fixed band, Mexico has not seen any significant decline in its international reserves in recent weeks.
In the news conference, Mr. Ortiz said that today's intervention aimed not to support the peso at a fixed rate but to keep it from declining too abruptly and to supply a market with dollars on a day when there were few sellers.
In addition to the sale of dollars, the Banco de Mexico also moved again to restrict liquidity. The central bank announced that starting today, it would leave the country's commercial banks with 100 million pesos less than they needed, under a system known as daily "shorts." As a result, banks will need to raise interest rates to attract sufficient working cash. Today's measure simply turned up the steam on a measure adopted earlier in the current crisis. Last month, the central bank announced that it would leave banks 70 million pesos short each day.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (73%); 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (90%); BANCO DE MEXICO (58%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (97%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); AUCTIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); NEW ISSUES (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); INTEREST RATES (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



297 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Musical Chairs in Moscow

 BODY:
If urbanity, longevity and familiarity with international issues were the qualities most needed for Russia's next prime minister, Yevgeny Primakov would be admirably suited for the job. Few officials are as well versed in Kremlin politics as Mr. Primakov, who has served in senior national security posts under every Russian leader going back to Leonid Brezhnev two decades ago. But since a commitment to democracy and reform are more essential for Russia's future, his selection yesterday by President Boris Yeltsin looks more like an act of desperation than an act of leadership.
The choice of Mr. Primakov was dictated by parliamentary opposition to Mr. Yeltsin's first choice, Viktor Chernomyrdin, no paragon of reform in a previous tour as Prime Minister. Rather than challenging a truculent legislature and calling new elections, which would have prolonged the political crisis in Moscow, Mr. Yeltsin turned to a man who was acceptable to the Communist-dominated body. Mr. Primakov earned that trust through years of loyal party service during the Soviet period and close ties to the K.G.B. After the Soviet Union collapsed he ran the foreign intelligence agency that replaced the K.G.B. and since 1996 has been Foreign Minister. 
 Mr. Primakov is no ideologue, as his smooth transition from one leader and era to the next would suggest. He can be charming, wryly amusing and cold-bloodedly pragmatic. But Russians should not look to him for new reform programs. Instead, he is likely to assemble a coalition government and try to steady the economy through the kind of state intervention that over time crippled the Soviet Union. The question is whether Mr. Primakov will do so cautiously and within the framework of a market system, or try to wrench Russia back toward a managed economy, which would stunt the prospects for recovery.
Mr. Primakov may also harden Russian foreign policy in areas like the Balkans and the Middle East, where he has already opposed American positions as Foreign Minister. His reputation as a defender of Russian interests has served him well in a nation soured on capitalism and increasingly wary of Washington's policy prescriptions.
Mr. Primakov should bring a measure of stability to a country verging on anarchy. He at least commands the respect of many of his fellow politicians and countrymen, which is more than can be said of Mr. Yeltsin. His other attraction to the political heavyweights hoping to succeed Mr. Yeltsin is that Mr. Primakov, who is 68, seems to have no interest in running for president himself. Such are the calculations that pass for leadership in Moscow these days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: K G B (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: K G B (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); ESPIONAGE (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); 

PERSON: BORIS YELTSIN (71%); LEONID ILYICH BREZHNEV (57%); VIKTOR CHERNOMYRDIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



298 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Eating and Hoping at the Concord;
Kosher Hotel's Friends Await Bankruptcy Court Ruling

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES

DATELINE: KIAMESHA LAKE, N.Y., Sept. 7

 BODY:
At the last meal of the season in the Concord Resort Hotel's 3,000-seat dining room, Table C-8, always the loudest, was even louder than usual.
Swamped by plates of baked lasagna, all 10 people sitting around the white-clothed table were talking and laughing and arguing at once, as comfortable in their spot at the front and center of the room as stage veterans. "This table," Jerry Angel announced, "is the table for the ages." 
 Table C-8, made up of couples and singles from Brooklyn, Manhattan, Westchester, Long Island and New Jersey, is a more-than-quarter-century-old institution at a hotel that has survived through its institutions. Regular Concord guests come to know Table C-8 as the clique of cliques, the mature version of the popular students in high school. Every summer, the members of C-8 meet for weekends here, sharing their three kosher meals a day in the same seating order. At the end of August, they always throw a birthday party for Patty Garcia, their waitress. On Labor Day, they inevitably spend the lunch before checkout hooting and hollering at the shenanigans of the past summer and talking about next year's.
But not this year.
"Next year? said Mr. Angel, C-8's unofficial leader, as competing conversations halted. "We don't know. We just don't know."
This was the last summer of the Concord Resort Hotel as its devotees have known it. The largest and most famous of the Catskill Mountain hotels, where the likes of Jerry Lewis, Woody Allen and Don Rickles paid their dues, is bankrupt, a sorry reminder of the declining fortunes of a resort area once known as the Jewish Riviera.
The family that has owned the Concord since it opened 61 years ago is reluctantly selling it to pay off more than $20 million in debts. The future of the hotel, the largest employer in Sullivan County, with 800 employees, is in limbo.
In three weeks, a Bankruptcy Court judge is expected to announce which of several prospective bidders can try to secure the financing to buy the hotel. One, Value Company, part of an investment group based in Manhattan, has been trying to find investors since January to remake the hotel into a first-class resort, and has an agreement with the Sheraton Corporation to make the hotel a franchise. Another applicant specializes in buying bankrupt hotels and converting them into condominiums. Touro College, with campuses in Nassau County and Israel, has expressed interest in converting at least part of the hotel into a campus.
Even if it remains a hotel, the Concord, one of only a handful of family-owned resorts left in the Catskills, will be different. The absurdly large dining hall, where guests have eaten all they can eat at the same time, much as in summer camp, will surely be gone. So will the kosher-only kitchen, and most likely, some of the employees, many of whom have worked here 30, 40, even 50 years.
Table C-8 and the other faithful guests who call the Concord a second home have known for years that they cannot keep the hotel alive by themselves. It has long become obvious that the guest list has been declining, and so has the hotel. The huge guest rooms, even those in the tower wing of the hotel, built 20 years ago, have worn carpets and faded wallpaper. The traditional guests, adults middle-aged and older who remember the good old days, have been unable to persuade their children and grandchildren to come here, only 90 miles from New York City, instead of to spiffier resorts on an ocean beach. Even on Labor Day weekend, the hotel, with 1,200 rooms, was only half full.
Still, the idea of the Concord's changing in any of its intimate ways -- the notion that the side lobby where the house orchestra performs big-band music might become just another place for potted palm trees or that the exercise classes by Gilda Marx, the art demonstrations by Morris Katz ("the world's fastest painter") and the noisy happiness of Table C-8 might become pressed memories for the scrapbook -- has given the resort the wistful air of a wake.
"I cry," said Irving Cohen, the maitre d'hotel, who has worked here for 55 years. For decades, Mr. Cohen, now 80, has carefully assigned the seating in the dining room to put single women next to single men, a sly talent that has led to more than 100 Concord marriages.
"I've been to more weddings and bar mitzvahs -- it's been a great time," Mr. Cohen said. (As guests stopped by his post in the front of the dining room to say goodbye, his round cheeks were pinched, patted and pecked more than a baby's.) "Now, with everything uncertain and all the employees worrying about their jobs, it's a very sad time," he added. "I think some of the employees are even more upset than the owners."
Robert Parker, one of the five brothers and sisters in their 40's and 50's who inherited the hotel from their parents and grandparents, was sitting just yards away. As chief executive of the hotel, he has not looked happy for a long time, even when joking with guests he has known his whole life. "It should be an interesting few months here," he said with a grimace that was trying to be a grin.
Employees don't blame the Parker family for the hotel's demise. They blame the people who abandoned the Catskills for Atlantic City or more exotic locales. Marilyn Gill, who gave up drug counseling to become a waitress here 26 years ago, compares the situation at the Concord to one at the Catskills hotel in the movie "Dirty Dancing," which she has seen 47 times.
"You know, how at the end of the movie, they talked about the end of an era, people wanting to take trips to Europe instead of driving to the mountains?" she said. "I think that's what happens."
But that film was set in 1963. The Concord held its own until the mid- to late 70's, during the recession.
"I just think people started thinking they could go abroad for the money they'd spend at a weekend here," Ms. Gill said. "But I don't think there's any place that gives you dollar value like the Concord. Three meals a day and all activities included?"
Ms. Gill was sitting in the dining room on a break with Pat Kislowski, who has worked here 15 years, and Eva Molnar, who has worked here for 32.
"There were times when people used to have to beg to have a day off," Ms. Molnar said. "Now, they wait by the phone."
"We all love the hotel," Ms. Kislowski said. "We're all like family." When an old porter who had been at the hotel 25 years developed prostate cancer, she said by way of example, the staff took care of him until his death, then chipped in to pay for a funeral service and a death notice. "It was sad that he had no family," Ms. Kislowski said. "But he had us."
In February, Ms. Gill said, the staff started a petition to get the Governor's help in keeping the hotel open. "We got 600 names," she said. "We wanted him to sit down and listen to us talk about what the Concord means to Sullivan County. He sent us back a form letter."
Some longtime guests refuse to believe that their Concord days may be over. Lenny Weissman of Manhattan, a regular at Table C-12, which was once known as the bachelors' table, said the hotel had been too much a part of his life for 26 years to see it end.
"I got separated in March of 1972, and believe it or not, they had an April in Paris singles weekend here the next month," he said. "That was the beginning for me. From '72 to '95, I got more phone numbers weekends here in the summer than I got for all the other 42 weeks of the year combined. Then I fell in love here."
His career as an Eligible Male ended when he met Judy Borzi. She happens to be the hotel's official matchmaker, but the match she made in this case was for herself. She and Mr. Weissman now live together.
"I've put together hundreds of couples," said Ms. Borzi, who also runs People Link, a traditional dating service in Manhattan. "Then my own vocation became self-fulfilling."
Of all the Concord's traditions, poker and matchmaking seem to inspire the most bragging. At least half a dozen guests claimed to be excellent at one or the other. Barbara and Bernie Schwartz of Queens, Table C-8 members, claim to have mastered both. "I play poker and Bernie has put hundreds of people together," Mrs. Schwartz said.
"There's a lot of lonely people," he said, "for whom this is their only social life." Including, he said, lowering his voice,"some people at this table."
But if the Concord closes, C-8 as a group will most likely survive. "We're all friends," said Joyce Zolna of Verona, N.J. "We see each other in the city. We're already planning a Halloween party."
And if the Concord reopens in another incarnation? "It will be a terrible shame if somebody buys this hotel and changes it," said Cynthia Rechtman, sitting next to Ms. Zolna.
"Though we have so much fun," Ms. Zolna said, "we'll probably come back next year if it's open."
"We'll come back here once," Mr. Angel said. "We'll see what's left and what's not."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Irving Cohen -- maitre d'hotel who has worked at the Concord for 55 years, getting a kiss on the cheek from Zelda Copen, aguest from Florida. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (86%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (86%); US LABOR DAY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); FAMILY COMPANIES (67%); FAMILY (67%); MOUNTAINS (64%); JUDGES (60%); 

PERSON: IRVING COHEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



299 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Yields Plummet on Expectations of Rate Cut by Fed

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities leaped yesterday, sending the yields on 10-year notes and 30-year bonds down to levels not seen since 1967. The decline shows that investors are betting that the Federal Reserve will cut short-term interest rates, a move that could help stabilize stock markets here and abroad.
In a replay of the almost daily flight to the relative safety of the bond market, investors snapped up Treasury bonds and notes yesterday. The price of the of 30-year bond jumped 1 1/32 , to 104 21/32 , while the bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dropped to 5.19 percent, from 5.26 percent on Wednesday. The yield has dropped almost half a percentage point since the end of July. 
 The yield on the 10-year note, which is a benchmark for home mortgage rates, fell to 4.77 percent, from 4.92 percent on Wednesday. Its yield has fallen almost three-quarters of a percentage point since the end of July.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said, "The U.S. Government bond market has become the beneficiary of virtually every market-related news event on the planet."
The fact that these yields and the yields on short-term maturities are well below the Fed's 5.5 percent target for short-term interest rates shows that investors are betting on the Fed to lower its target. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, made this bet even more attractive when he indicated last week that the central bank would consider a rate cut if the foreign drag on the United States economy worsened.
But the trade-off for such an easing is more inflationary pressure in the United States. And this is a factor, analysts said, the Fed officials will have to balance against the turmoil in the world's financial markets when deciding what action to take.
In the last year, a stronger American dollar, falling commodity prices and a sharp decline in the prices of imported goods have helped push key inflation indexes lower. These benefits have helped cushion the negative effect, mostly on American exports, from the Asian financial crisis that began in July 1997.
But a cut in interest rates by the Fed could lead to a weaker dollar, lifting the prices of imports.
In addition, a falling dollar would probably help push commodity prices higher by stimulating demand. Most commodities are priced in dollars, which means a falling dollar makes commodities cheaper for many countries, especially those in the developing world. It was such a decline in the last year that made commodity prices fall so sharply.
Yesterday, the Commodity Research Bureau/Bridge index of 17 commodities rose 1.06, to 202.59, and is up nearly 4 percent in the last two weeks. This recent surge has come as the dollar has slumped against the German mark and the Japanese yen. The dollar declined to 1.6843 marks yesterday from 1.7215 marks on Wednesday after earlier touching a 16-month low. The dollar has also fallen recently against the Canadian dollar, which was at record lows just two weeks ago. The weakness of the dollar, analysts say, is in anticipation of a cut by the Fed.
"An easing by the Fed would be unabashedly positive for the developing world," argued Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company. "But an easing is ambigious for the United States. You are reversing the Asia's-pain-is-the-U.S.'s-gain trade."
Robert V. DiClemente, the chief United States economist at Salomon Smith Barney, agrees with such an outlook. But he argued that the increased inflation that might result would be positive.
The alternative, he said, could be a worldwide recession set off by the spread of the economic crisis to Latin America. Such a recession would probably lead to a more dangerous decline in prices known as deflation.
The sharp drop in interest rates has helped offset the economic drag from the financial turmoil in Asia, Russia and Latin America. Thirty-year mortgage rates are below 7 percent and should go lower.
But the benefit of lower interest rates is not being spread to all consumers or companies, which means there is much more of a drag on American growth than the drop in Treasury yields indicates. Consumers still face much higher interest rates on credit cards and other types of borrowing. In addition, the decline in the borrowing rates for corporations has not fallen as sharply as Treasury yields. And the cost of borrowing for less creditworthy companies is rising.
The Ford Motor Company said yesterday that it would not proceed immediately with a new bond issue, in part because yields on corporate bonds have become less attractive.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Shrinking Treasury" shows the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, since May. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CURRENCIES (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



300 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Recipe for Trouble: Falling Dominoes, Leadership Vacuum

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Washington has been so distracted by President Clinton's troubles, by the slow-motion collapse of the Russian Government and by the continuing meltdown of Asia that few here have had time to consider what could set off the next wave of economic turmoil.
But today Washington and Wall Street, two universes rarely in sync, got a taste of what may be coming. 
 The images of Kenneth Starr's boxes of evidence landing on Capitol Hill helped propel the United States markets to another big slide today, and the threat of impeachment proceedings against President Clinton only adds to the sense that the United States is no longer a haven against instability.
So it was telling that after a Cabinet meeting late this afternoon, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin appeared on NBC to underscore that the President is "intensely focused" on world economic events, even while he fights for political survival and apologizes for what Mr. Rubin termed "terrible mistakes."
Mr. Rubin made an oblique argument that keeping the President in his job was essential, saying this is "a time when the world has only one leader who understands these issues."
At the same time, however, the Asian crisis was landing full force in the Americas. Brazil's 15.82 percent market drop today, after days of frantic announcements intended to calm investors who were fleeing its currency, dissolved the few remaining hopes that Latin America would somehow stave off the economic contagion that began in the Pacific. Mexico's currency has declined to lows not seen since the 1995 peso crisis, reviving the fears of that first post-cold war dip into economic meltdown.
There is plenty of economic rationale behind the fear that a breach of the Latin wall could be far more devastating for American companies than the twin crises in Asia and Russia. American exports to Latin America are far greater than to Asia, and American banks are much more heavily exposed to a downturn there. But perhaps just as importantly, if economic turmoil engulfs the region, the contagion will be exploding just over the United States' southern border.
"It's a very scary combination of events," said John S. Wadsworth Jr., the chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia. "The classical solutions to contain the Asian crisis failed. Meanwhile, we have a series of political vacuums at a moment when the complexity of the world's economic and financial situation requires real leadership.
"There's no world central bank, no world equivalent of Alan Greenspan, at a moment when our main problems around the globe are financial. That only magnifies the trouble."
The closest institution that fits that global role is the International Monetary Fund. Until now, the Administration's bet was that the outbreak of new brush fires around the world would persuade Congress to put another $18 billion into the cash-pressed I.M.F., rather than risk being accused of partisan wrangling while world economies melt.
The strategy, though, is clearly failing: Today, the House Appropriations Committee refused to approve a donation larger than $3.4 billion, a step some in the Administration fear could doom hopes of replenishing the fund's coffers. Mr. Clinton, distracted to say the least, is in no position to lobby for more funds. The debate is not yet over -- the Senate approved full financing for the I.M.F. and its view could still prevail when the issue goes to a conference committee of the two houses -- but an aide to Mr. Rubin said today that the funds are "clearly in trouble."
It is always difficult, of course, to say what is spooking markets the most: the prospect of long, drawn-out impeachment hearings, or a recession in Latin America that would hurt corporate profits even further, or just a general nervousness that a remarkable period of world prosperity is grinding slowly to a halt.
But it would be a mistake to underestimate the impact of Mr. Clinton's troubles.
The markets never blinked when the 1994 elections created political gridlock, a Democrat in the White House and Republicans running Congress. In fact, they celebrated. Economies around the world were running on all cylinders, and the Wall Street view was that inaction in Washington could do more good than harm.
This is a very different time, however, and gridlock is a different phenomenon than a leadership vacuum. At moments of economic peril, what governments say, how quickly they react to plunging currencies or market crises, how fast they reassure investors that things are under control, take on new dimensions.
With the President viewed as crippled, at best, that leadership role falls almost entirely to Mr. Rubin and to Mr. Greenspan. If the markets decide that that their joint efforts to convince Congress to finance the I.M.F. are doomed to failure, they may also determine that the United States is in no position to back up its calming words with cash.
"The worry is that we create a vicious circle," one Administration official said today. "All the impeachment hysteria has to affect the market. And as the U.S. market drops, it fuels the drops around the world -- even though they may have other causes. You get into this vicious circle."
The comparisons with 1974, when the House Judiciary Committee was voting out impeachment articles against President Richard M. Nixon, are not very helpful. Markets then were a lot less global. Moreover, the fundamentals of the American economy were weak, hurt by inflation and oil embargoes and huge military spending on the cold war.
Nonetheless, the markets dropped about 25 percent that summer, and kept falling even after the President had resigned.
This time things are likely to be different. The market has already dropped, for reasons that have little to do with Mr. Clinton's fortunes. And what happens in Latin America, or Japan, or Russia will undoubtedly loom far larger in today's markets than events in those countries would have in 1974.
But as one member of Mr. Clinton's economic team put it today: "This would be a hard enough international crisis to handle in normal times. And there is nothing normal about what's going on here now."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



301 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: COMPROMISE IN MOSCOW: THE NOMINEE;
Foreign Policy Expert With Little Economics

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 10

 BODY:
In selecting Yevgeny M. Primakov for Prime Minister, President Boris N. Yeltsin has picked a wily diplomat and steely opponent of American dominance.
There is no question that the choice of Mr. Primakov, a foreign policy strategist and former intelligence chief, is a popular one for the Communist opposition and for Russians who miss the stability of Soviet times. 
 What Mr. Primakov has not done, however, is grapple with the task of advancing market reforms in a country shaped by seven decades of Communist rule.
His few pronouncements on economics have been vague musings about the need to use the power of the state to strengthen ailing industries, and complaints about the International Monetary Fund.
By all accounts, his success will depend heavily on the aides who are entrusted with economic policy. And as Russia's new Government begins to take shape, it is looking more like a disparate coalition of Communists, social democrats and market reformers than a coherent team.
"Primakov is not a Communist," said Mikhail Berger, an economic specialist and editor of the newspaper Sevodnya. "He is not red. But he is a bit pink."
Mr. Primakov, 68, grew up in the Soviet Union's lost empire. He was born in Kiev, now the capital of Ukraine, and raised in Tbilisi, Georgia. Of Jewish heritage, he adopted the family name of his stepfather in a concession to the anti-Semitism of Soviet times.
He graduated from the Institute of Oriental Studies in Moscow and became a Pravda correspondent in the Middle East, a profession often linked to intelligence gathering.
When Mikhail S. Gorbachev led the Soviet Union, Mr. Primakov was on the liberal end of the Soviet orthodoxy, but hardly a bold reformer. He ran the Institute of World Economy and International Relations, a leading Soviet research institute, before becoming a Politburo member and Gorbachev aide.
He stepped onto the world stage when he sought to block American military action to reverse the 1990 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. In a feverish round of shuttle diplomacy, he tried to negotiate a compromise to give Saddam Hussein a face-saving way out.
That did not endear Mr. Primakov to the Americans, but it did him no harm at home. Mr. Gorbachev later made him head of the Foreign Intelligence Service, one of the successors of the K.G.B. He was the highest-ranking official to keep his job after the collapse of the Soviet state, a sign of his bureaucratic survival skills.
Mr. Primakov used his intelligence post to weigh in on foreign policy, issuing reports that assailed Washington for trying to take advantage of a weakened Russia.
Those are increasingly popular views in Russia. And when President Yeltsin ran for re-election in 1996, he sought to appeal to nationalist sentiment by making Mr. Primakov his Foreign Minister.
"Primakov represents today's paradigm," said Aleksandr Oslon, one of Russia's most highly regarded pollsters. "He is a conservative. He is wily and without youthful zeal. That corresponds to the popular mood that Russia is not strong, that no one wants to help us and that we need to be wiley."
With Russia's economy in ruins, Russia's diplomats have had limited room for maneuver. A pragmatist, Mr. Primakov has developed a working relationship with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright.
But he has also challenged American dominance in a way that stops just short of confrontation. He has fought relentlessly against NATO expansion. He has frustrated tough action to quell the fighting in Kosovo. He has backed the sale of Russian antiaircraft missiles to the Greek Cypriot Government, a move Washington worries could lead to a war between Greece and Turkey, two NATO members.
"Primakov wants to fix Russia's position as a great power," said Igor Golemiovsky, the editor of the newspaper Novaya Izvestia. "His position is that everyone should have to take account of the new Russia."
With Russians lining up to retrieve their savings from insolvent banks and the value of the ruble changing by the hour, the new Russia does not look much like a great power.
Sergei V. Kiriyenko, the Prime Minister who was ousted last month, was touted as a technocrat who put politics aside to focus on economics. Mr. Primakov is the reverse. He was praised today as a savvy leader who would nurture political ties with the Communists and pro-market forces while leaving the nitty-gritty of economic policy to others.
It is not clear, however, how he would rescue Russia. His economic philosophy, to the extent he has defined it, is a vague melding of capitalist and socialist themes.
In a speech at the Royal Institute of International Affairs in London in June, Mr. Primakov said there was no danger that Russia would return to its Communist past. But he went on to criticize the I.M.F. while endorsing the use of credits to help Russia's stricken industry as part of some sort of Russian version of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal.
"We did not pay enough attention to economic growth because we were focused on macroeconomic financial stability at the request of the I.M.F.," he said. "We can learn from the United States. During the process of recovery from the Great Depression, Roosevelt took some state measures, tax measures that benefited the development of industry."
Those slogans have soothed the left-wing opposition. But just what they would mean in practice and who would define them is unclear.
Grigory A. Yavlinsky, the leader of the liberal Yabloko Party, who called for Mr. Primakov's selection, is a leading candidate for a high economic post. Mr. Yavlinsky's party resembles the social democratic parties of Western Europe, and he has been skeptical of the tough "currency board" plan the Kremlin promoted last week to establish a fixed rate for the ruble.
But he is just one of the politicians who are likely to find a place on in the Primakov coalition. Yuri D. Maslyukov, a Communist member of Parliament and the former head of the Soviet economic planning agency, is likely to become a first deputy prime minister.
Viktor V. Gerashchenko, the head of the central bank from 1992 to 1994, whose "loose money" policies help foster the ruble's plunge, may even be restored to that post, Mr. Yeltsin's spokesman said.
That appointment would not sit well with Boris G. Fyodorov, a pro-capitalist Kremlin aide who has ties to Mr. Primakov. He worked for him during Soviet times when Mr. Primakov led the world economic institute.
Unlike Mr. Yavlinsky, Mr. Fyodorov is a ardent champion of currency controls. And his views of Mr. Gerashchenko are clear. Mr. Fyodorov once wrote a dictionary of economic terms in which he described Mr. Gerashchenko as the "worst central banker in the world."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yevgeny M. Primakov was a close aide to the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev when they attended a Parliamentary session in 1989, above (Associated Press). Mr. Primakov exchanged documents with his counterpart, Madeleine K. Albright, at the talks between President Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin last week. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (52%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ESPIONAGE (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (64%); RANKINGS (62%); STEPPARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



302 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Soaring Costs Delay Building of Federal Courthouse

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Ever-rising construction costs, driven by the resumption of large-scale development in New York City, have delayed and may fundamentally alter plans for a new 18-story Federal courthouse in downtown Brooklyn.
The courthouse, planned at Cadman Plaza East and Tillary Street, has already been designed. The General Services Administration received construction bids earlier this year, but allowed them to lapse last month without designating a contractor. 
 "The construction market in New York is booming, and that is having the effect of producing bids that are over budget on the courthouse," said Thomas J. Ryan, the newly designated regional administrator of the General Services Administration for the New York area.
The $194 million cost estimate was prepared in 1994, and the money was appropriated by Congress in 1996. The bids were due in February 1998.
"By the time we went to find a contractor, we were already several years past the market that had formed the basis of the building's cost estimate," said Chief Judge Charles P. Sifton of the Federal Court for the Eastern District of New York, which includes Brooklyn.
Judge Sifton and his colleague Judge Raymond J. Dearie, both of whom have been involved in the project, said the difference between the lowest bid and the budgeted amount rose from $5 million earlier this year to $20 million by the end of summer.
Mr. Ryan said the interval between the estimate and the bidding "was not unusually long, and in many areas of the country would have been inconsequential."
But construction prices have soared in New York in recent years. And a booming industry offers an unwelcome flip side to government agencies, which have been known to take advantage of recessions for their construction projects, because that is when contractors in search of work scramble to lower their prices.
Barring a return to Congress for more money -- a request that no agency likes to make -- Mr. Ryan said the General Services Administration hoped to scale back the Brooklyn courthouse to fit the existing budget and then send it out for bids again.
"It's not an easy thing to come up with additional millions of dollars for a project like this," Mr. Ryan said. "Our attempt right now is to work with the judges to see if there are changes that could be made which would allow the project to go forward under the present budget without compromising the quality of the design."
Some economies the Government might consider are building courtrooms that would be shared by more than one judge; housing some court employees in the old Post Office and Courthouse nearby, which is to be renovated, and replacing some of the limestone facade with a less expensive material.
"We all have the same goal," Mr. Ryan said. "To build a quality courthouse as soon as we can."
But Judge Sifton and Judge Dearie say they oppose any alteration of the original design. "The bottom line is that we need this project," Judge Sifton said. "There is no 'give' in this project. When they did consider cutting back, it was things like the public cafeteria. On a snowy winter day, you can't say to jurors, 'Go over to a crowded diner on Montague Street for lunch.' "
Judge Sifton said 15 judges now share 10 courtrooms in the existing Federal courthouse on Cadman Plaza East, built in 1962, and three more judges may be added to the district.
"Congress will give us the people to do the work, but we won't have a place to put them," he said.
Judge Sifton said the General Services Administration "bungled the bidding process" when it took seven weeks earlier this year to study ways to reduce costs on the project at just the time when construction prices were escalating.
Mr. Ryan declined to discuss the specifics of the bidding process.
As designed by Cesar Pelli & Associates and H L W International, the new courthouse would have a six-story base covering almost the entire site bounded by Cadman Plaza East, Tillary Street and Adams Street. It was on this empty lot that the four-story Emmanuel Celler Federal Building, which contained offices and courtrooms, stood until recently.
From this base, a bow-shaped tower, clad in limestone and glass, would rise an additional 12 stories, to a height of 300 feet. The new building would be joined to the existing courthouse by a pavilion with terraced balconies and an atrium, behind a cylinder of glass six stories high.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An 18-story courthouse has been designed for this site at Cadman Plaza East and Tillary Street, but none of the bids fit the project's budget. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); A rendering of the new Federal courthouse planned for downtown Brooklyn. The project is too expensive for its current budget.

Map showing the location of the construction site: The courthouse is to be built on the site of an old Federal building.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: THE POST OFFICE (50%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (90%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); PRICE CUTTING (64%); 

PERSON: CHARLES P SIFTON (90%); THOMAS J RYAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



303 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: COMPROMISE IN MOSCOW: IN WASHINGTON;
Primakov Well Known and Respected by U.S.

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today welcomed the nomination of Foreign Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov as Russia's next Prime Minister, with officials describing him as a sure-footed survivor whose appointment could help defuse a political and economic crisis that had threatened to bring down President Boris N. Yeltsin.
"Obviously the United States knows and respects the Foreign Minister, Primakov," said Michael D. McCurry, the White House spokesman. "We've worked closely with him. If ratified by the Duma, we would expect to have a good and close working relationship with Prime Minister Primakov." 
 Although Mr. Primakov has often worked at cross purposes with the United States, notably concerning the Balkans and the Middle East, Administration officials said they found him a reliable partner on other issues. He helped negotiate the agreement that resulted last year in Moscow's acquiescence to an expansion of the NATO alliance eastward.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright phoned congratulations to Mr. Primakov. "They had a very warm and friendly discussion," said James P. Rubin, her spokesman. "Prime Minister-designate Primakov is well known to Secretary Albright and many of us at the department, and he enjoys consideration respect."
Senior Administration officials said that while there was concern here over Mr. Primakov's lack of experience in economic policy, there was relief over the prospect that his nomination might restore stability to the Russian Government.
"Primakov is a known commodity to Washington, a familiar face who inspires confidence," a White House official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "And I'm sure he understands that in the midst of the economic crisis, he'll need to find advisers who have the background in economics and finance that he lacks."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



304 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: MARKET PLACE;
A Manic-Depressive Market Befuddles Even the Professionals

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
Investors in the stock market have to be ready for ups and downs. Everybody knows that. But who was prepared for the market's manic-depressive mood swings of the last few weeks? And what do the increasingly violent moves in stocks mean for the market over all?
Investors who thought that Tuesday's stunning surge was the end of the market's late-summer troubles quickly learned otherwise when the Dow Jones industrial average fell 155.76 points on Wednesday. The market continued to cave in yesterday as the Dow fell 249.48 points, or 3.17 percent, to 7,615.54. In the last two days, investors have given up more than they made during Tuesday's record 380-point rise. 
 These are wide swings. But they are not as wide as the gaps in recent weeks between the high and the low each day in the market averages. In two out of three trading days this week, the Dow traded in a range greater than 300 points. Yesterday's range of 338.57 points amounted to 4.3 percent of the gauge's value. And the swings in markets overseas have been even greater.
Moodiness like this used to be an occasional thing in American stocks. Now, going from euphoria to depression is de rigueur. The trouble is, these market gyrations have consequences: they are highly distressing to investors' psyches and exceedingly costly to their portfolios. Extreme volatility in share prices, what investors have been experiencing since stocks peaked in July, makes investing in stocks feel like shooting craps.
Of course, with the Dow around 7,600, it takes a bigger move in points to register a meaningful percentage gain or loss. Nobody expects the market at these levels to move up or down a mere 25 points or so.
But the percentage moves of 4 percent or more that have whipsawed investors recently make the market seem more unstable. And these moves are not limited to the indexes. Consider what happened yesterday to shares of Yahoo, which closed at $79.875. Its high was $80.50; its low $73. That $7.50 range is 9.3 percent of the stock's high.
Internet stocks are volatile, of course, so consider Merrill Lynch & Company. Trading in that stock yesterday had a range of 7.8 percent, from a high of $55.875 to a low of $51.50. The stock closed the day at $55.50.
These are not isolated examples. Neither was their volatility the result of any significant announcement. Many other stocks trade in exceedingly wide ranges, as do the main indexes.
Indeed, in just the last month, almost one trading day in three involved an unusually wide trading range, said Fane Lozman, the chairman of Scanshift, a creator of market display software in Chicago. During the 23 trading days going back to Aug. 10, Mr. Lozman studied the intraday range for the Standard & Poor's 500 September futures contracts, which institutional investors use to trade the market without buying all 500 stocks. He found that on seven occasions, the range for the futures during a day's trading was one and a half times greater than the mean range had been during the previous 30 days. On three occasions, the range was twice as great as it had been previously.
"We are in a new market era of volatility that people have to get used to," Mr. Lozman said. "The average person likes to see a nice steady increase in stock prices. But the speed with which this market goes from one price level to another price level is incredible."
It is also expensive, at least for individual investors. Professional traders like wide swings in stocks because they can make big profits on even the tiniest move in the large blocks of shares that they trade. But for smaller investors, volatility makes getting in and out of stocks costly. Think of the person who sold Citicorp yesterday at its low of $83.50, only to see it close at $88.25. Or the investor who bought Exxon at $70.6875, only to see it close a dollar lower.
What's to explain the market's bungee jumps? One broker, who has seen all kinds of markets over 36 years, thinks that extreme volatility signals a true bear market. "It shows a lack of confidence on the part of professionals, a danger of being long stocks overnight," this broker said. Because his firm does not allow its employees to speak on the record to reporters, he spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Volatility rises during down moves in stocks because shares tend to fall faster than they rise, as evidenced by the fact that bear markets typically end much more quickly than bull markets do. When intense selling starts, specialists and market makers drop their bid prices quickly, looking for the levels where value investors will enter. As a result, wild swings in stocks signal a pitched battle between the short-term investors who are bearish and the longer-term players who are bulls.
Brokers are mixed on what investors should do to protect themselves from the high costs of trading in volatile markets. Some advise investors looking to get into stocks to use only limit orders, which specify a price the investor is willing to pay for the shares. Market orders, in which an investor pays the prevailing market price, are more common and used to buy or sell a stock at any price. But in times of volatility, market orders can be a good way to overpay to buy stocks.
Other brokers advise investors to simply sit out the rough-and-tumble trading days. These people say that on those occasions, the market is simply trying to find a level and that all the churning in stocks makes it impossible to buy with confidence. One adviser said that in the last six weeks he had wound up paying on average 5 percent more than he wanted on market orders. When markets were calmer, he would have no trouble getting shares at the price he had seen on his screen when he placed the order.
Regardless of what investors do to combat the effects of volatility in stocks, they should brace themselves for more yo-yo moves. The swings are unsettling, and nobody is sure whether it means the market is nearer a bottom or just starting a decline. Here's a tiny bit of consolation for individuals: volatility like this even scares the professionals.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Time of Turmoil" shows the 30-day moving average of difference between high and low prices on S.& P. 500 futures, since July. (Source: Scanshift)(pg. C6); Graphs: "Around the World, Another Day, Another Tumble" shows changes in major stock indexes for the U.S., Mexico, Brazil, Britain, Germany and Japan, from July through Sept. (Source: Datastream; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



305 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE POLLS;
Allies Cling To Results Of Surveys

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10

 BODY:
Pointing to a diagram showing that most Americans think the country is on "the right track," Mark Penn, the President's pollster, sought today to reassure gathered Democratic donors by inundating them with survey data.
"If you were coming from another planet and didn't read the newspaper," Mr. Penn said, "you would think the Democrats were in an absolutely tremendous position." 
 In fact, as the Lewinsky scandal envelops President Clinton, his advisers and supporters cling to their own polls and public surveys showing that the President's job approval rating remains impressive and that there are no statistical indications that Democratic candidates are being dragged down.
But surveys released today by CBS News and ABC News offered hints that, though far from definitive, Mr. Clinton's support might be softening -- and that there is increased public concern about the scandal.
Even so, Mr. Penn and Democratic Party officials emphasized the mostly encouraging poll results in their addresses at a conference here of the Democratic Business Council, a group of the party's donors from business and labor, as evidence that on Election Day the party could survive the Lewinsky scandal.
After citing his own surveys showing that there "is absolutely no evidence" that Mr. Clinton's general support was slipping, Mr. Penn said that this week he had contacted several other Democratic pollsters, asking whether they had detected an erosion in support for the party. He said they had not.
"The President is not on the ticket -- that issue is not on the ticket," said Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado, general chairman of the Democratic Party. "Is this going to dampen Democrats coming out to vote? Not on your life."
Thus far, most polls show that Mr. Clinton's job approval ratings remain steady. In the CBS News survey, his rating stands at 59 percent, the first time it has slipped below 60 percent since the Lewinsky debacle unfolded in January. In August, Mr. Clinton's job approval was 65 percent. Still, the shift is barely significant, statistically, because the margin of sampling error in the poll is plus or minus four percentage points. In addition, even a 59 percent rating is impressive because many pollsters argue that anything over 50 percent is comfortable.
Kathleen A. Frankovic, director of surveys at CBS News, described the job approval numbers as a "mild weakening" in Mr. Clinton's support.
The CBS survey of 738 adults nationwide, conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday nights, found that 36 percent of the respondents thought Mr. Clinton had less honesty and integrity than most people in public life, a slight increase from August. And 71 percent said the scandal would have a serious effect on Mr. Clinton's Administration over the next two years, an 11-point increase since August.
Yet the poll found that people still trusted Mr. Clinton as a leader. Sixty-three percent said he had strong qualities of leadership; 73 percent approved of his handling of the economy and 62 percent approved of his handling of foreign policy.
The survey by ABC News, conducted on Wednesday night, also found slight signs of erosion in Mr. Clinton's job approval rating, which stood at 57 percent, down from 66 percent in August.
But as in the CBS News survey, people seem to separate the President's personal conduct from his job performance. While 28 percent said they trusted Mr. Clinton on a personal level, 58 percent said they trusted him to handle the nation's business. The poll of 509 adults nationwide has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 5 percentage points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (70%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (70%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); STATISTICS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



306 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Interest Rates Slide As Stock Prices Tumble
The prices of Treasury securities jumped, sending the yields on 10-year notes and 30-year bonds down to levels not seen since 1967. The yield of the 30-year bond dropped to 5.19 percent, from 5.26 percent on Wednesday. The decline shows that investors are betting that the Federal Reserve will cut short-term interest rates, a move that could help stabilize stock markets here and abroad. 
But the decline in stocks continued to accelerate. The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 249.48 points, or 3.17 percent. The Dow is down 18.4 percent since its July 17 peak. Stocks skidded even more sharply in Europe and Latin America. Page C6.
 
Northwest Airlines Accord Reached
Negotiators for Northwest Airlines and its pilots' union reached a tentative agreement to settle their bitter labor dispute, but the accord stopped short of immediately ending the 13-day strike that has disrupted travel in the Midwest and South because the union still has to decide whether to accept it. A1.
 
Mexican Bank Fails to Prop Up Peso
Panic selling swept the Mexican stock exchange, where the chief market index plunged 9.82 percent. The Mexican central bank waded into currency markets selling nearly $500 million in dollars and tightening cash in circulation in an unsuccessful effort to support the peso. C4.
 
The Ruble's Wild Ride
The Russian ruble, after falling to 5 cents to the dollar in recent days, shot back up to 9 cents, so Russians who had bought dollars as a safe haven discovered that they were worth far less. A8.
 
Chip Makers' Brighter Outlooks
Shares of National Semiconductor fell 3.38 percent after the company reported a loss that fell slightly below analysts' estimates. But National Semiconductor executives said that orders had begun to pick up in August and that the next quarter's results could be stronger. Another upbeat assessment came from Intel, which predicted that its third-quarter sales would be 8 to 10 percent higher than the second quarter's. C2.
 
Trade Deficit Climbed in 2d Quarter
The nation's trade deficit in goods, services and investments widened to a record $56.525 billion in the second quarter. C2.
 
Venator-Sports Authority Deal Off
Venator Group and Sports Authority canceled their planned merger because the stock of Venator, formerly Woolworth, has dropped 61 percent since the plans were made in May -- cutting the value of the deal to about $398.5 million in stock and assumed debt, from more than $761 million. C2.
 
S.E.C. Fines Discount Broker
Olde Discount, a brokerage firm, and three of its executives, including its founder and chairman, agreed to pay $7 million in fines to settle S.E.C. accusations of fraudulent sales practices and use of misleading advertising and promotional literature. C2.
 
VW Plans Slave Labor Fund
Volkswagen A.G. plans to announce today that it will create a $12 million fund to compensate surviving former slave laborers. The move comes at a time when American lawyers have filed class-action suits over slave labor against Volkswagen and many other German industrial companies for their use of slave labor during World War II. A10.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,615.54 down 249.48
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.19% down 0.07
The Dollar -- 134.23 down 2.77
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows percent change in producer prices, from Feb. through July. Expected figure for August: Unchanged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); FL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (51%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (71%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); INTEL CORP (53%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (53%); FOOT LOCKER INC (51%); VENATOR-SPORTS AUTHORITY (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: VENATOR-SPORTS AUTHORITY (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); MIDWEST USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AIRLINES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BONDS (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EURO (79%); INTEREST RATES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); ELECTRONICS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (74%); STRIKES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); MICROPROCESSORS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (65%); COMPANY LOSSES (63%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (60%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



307 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE CLERGY;
Clinton Should Resign, 2 Religious Leaders Say

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR

 BODY:
In a sign that President Clinton's approval among clergy members is eroding in the wake of the Monica Lewinsky scandal, two leading religious figures in New York -- one Protestant and one Jewish -- said in interviews yesterday that Mr. Clinton had lost his moral authority and ought to resign.
The comments -- by Ismar Schorsch, chancellor of Jewish Theological Seminary, and Bishop Richard F. Grein of the New York Episcopal Diocese -- came the day before dozens of clergy members are to attend a breakfast with Mr. Clinton in Washington, a gathering that has become a regular, late summer event at the White House. 
 Dr. Schorsch, a leading figure within Judaism's Conservative movement, said he did not think Mr. Clinton's moral authority had been eroded, but rather "destroyed" as a result of the scandal.
The chancellor, who described himself as a former "great admirer" of Mr. Clinton, said he came to believe the President should step downwhen Mr. Clinton went on national television on Aug. 17 to acknowledge he had had an inappropriate relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, a former White House intern.
In a separate interview, a similar opinion about the President was expressed by Bishop Grein, whose position in New York makes him a senior bishop in the Episcopal Church.
"I think his moral presence in the country has been undercut so badly that he can't lead," he said.
Like Dr. Schorsch, Bishop Grein said he reached that conclusion about the time of Mr. Clinton's television speech.
"Once you're caught in a lie, you're a dead duck," the bishop said. "And it was just about then that I thought, he's got to step down."
The remarks by Dr. Schorsch and Bishop Grein are unusual on two counts. Since the scandal broke last January, many clergy members have taken a cautious approach, urging prayer and restraint in judgment. Those who have called for Mr. Clinton's resignation have often been religious conservatives, a group critical of the President for liberal stands on social policy issues.
Earlier this week, Paige Patterson, president of the Southern Baptist Convention, called on Mr. Clinton to step down at once. Mr. Patterson repeated that position in an interview yesterday but said he did so out of concern for Mr. Clinton, so he would not have to face public exposure from the findings in the investigation by the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr.
"He needs to be alone with God, rebuilding his life and moral commitment and his family," Mr. Patterson said.
Although Mr. Clinton is a Southern Baptist, he and Mr. Patterson come from different wings of the denomination, which has been controlled by theological conservatives since the 1980's.
Neither Dr. Schorsch nor Bishop Grein was among those invited to Friday's White House breakfast. A White House spokeswoman said that "a core group" of religious leaders was invited annually to the breakfasts, and that the White House tried to include others each year.
Dr. Schorsch said he attended a similar event in 1993 and heard the President declare the need for religious tolerance in a pluralistic society. "I was very impressed," he said.
Mr. Clinton has become known for the fluency of his religious language and his willingness to engage in discussions with clergy members, as individuals and in groups.
One nationally prominent minister who will attend Friday's breakfast, the Rev. Joan Brown Campbell, general secretary of the National Council of Churches, said she was not prepared to call for Mr. Clinton's resignation.
"That is a rush to judgment that I am not prepared to make," Ms. Campbell said.
But she added, "The nation has to be clear that when people do sinful acts -- which we all do -- there have to be consequences."
She said she thought that a censure by Congress of Mr. Clinton "might be necessary" for the country to feel it was moving ahead.
Paraphrasing Archbishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa, Ms. Campbell said that without forgiveness, there could be no healing. But for there to be forgiveness, she said, "being repentant is essential."
Dr. Schorsch and Bishop Grein said they had shared their feelings about Mr. Clinton with few others.
"I've not talked a lot about it because I'm so depressed," Dr. Schorsch said. Bishop Grein said he felt bad for the President, the nation "and for everyone else."
Another Episcopal prelate in New York, Bishop Mark S. Sisk, who was recently elected to succeed Bishop Grein when the latter chooses to retire, said he did not think Mr. Clinton should resign because it would be "a risky" time to change leaders while the world seemed unstable, with the crisis in Russia and a recession in Asia.
One religious leader who has declined to comment is John Cardinal O'Connor, Catholic Archbishop of New York. Writing in the archdiocesan newspaper, Catholic New York, last week, he said, "Do I advance the salvation of souls by publicizing my own speculation or by offering my own verdict? I don't think so."
Cardinal O'Connor wrote that he was "very, very busy praying" for the Clintons, for those in Congress who would judge the President and for the nation, "which, in my judgment, is more deeply in need of prayer than at any point during my 78 years as a citizen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ismar Schorsch, above, chancellor of the Jewish Theological Seminary, and Bishop Richard F. Grein, left, of the New York Episcopal Diocese, say that the Lewinsky scandal has destroyed President Clinton's moral authority and that he should resign. (Photographs by Ruby Washington for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (70%); NEW YORK (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (70%); NEW YORK (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (97%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (94%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); SCANDALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



308 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Northwest and Pilots Union Gain Tentative Accord in Labor Fight

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN

 BODY:
Negotiators for Northwest Airlines and its pilots union reached a tentative agreement yesterday to settle a 13-day strike that has disrupted travel in the Midwest and South.
On a day when most of the focus in Washington was on the political difficulties facing President Clinton, he announced the breakthrough personally in an evening statement to reporters on the White House lawn. 
 "I think the strike is over," he said.
Flanked by his wife, Hillary, and Transportation Secretary Rodney E. Slater, Mr. Clinton praised the leaders at Northwest and the Air Line Pilots Association and thanked the members of his Administration, including Bruce Lindsey, the White House deputy counsel who was instrumental in bringing about the settlement.
"I know there are a lot of people who depend on Northwest who are relieved tonight," Mr. Clinton said.
But Northwest would not begin flying again until the union has accepted the pact. In a statement released after the President's comments, the pilots union said its 17-member governing master executive council would meet in Minneapolis on Saturday to decide whether to approve the agreement. Until then, the pilots will remain on strike, it added. The airline has said it will take 8 to 10 days after the pilots agree to return to work before the airline can resume its full schedule.
Northwest and the union said they would not release details of the tentative agreement until the pilots' executive council took action on it.
The Northwest pilots strike has been the longest against an airline since 1989, when machinists shut down Eastern Airlines. All of Northwest's nearly 1,700 flights have been grounded, sharply reducing air travel in Northwest's hub airports in Detroit, Minneapolis and Memphis and the surrounding regions, where the airline was dominant.
One of the hardest hit states has been North Dakota, which depends on Northwest for virtually all of its air service. But in cities like Detroit and Minneapolis, the disruption from the strike was less than many people had expected. Other airlines added flights to the cities, businesses made other arrangements, and people simply stayed home.
The lack of disruption undermined dire predictions by Northwest before the strike as it tried to put pressure on Mr. Clinton to use his executive powers to order the pilots back to work, as he did last year when pilots struck at American Airlines.
"What has happened is that passengers have found it easier to book elsewhere," said Robert E. Litan, the director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution who was hired by Northwest to assess the economic damage of a strike.
Mr. Litan's study said the damage would equal $737 million in the strike's first 10 days. But this week he said his revised estimate was about two-thirds of his original forecast with more than half coming from the fact that Northwest ceased operations and laid off 30,000 of its 51,000 workers.
The pilots walked out on Aug. 29 after two years of negotiations. The main issues in the dispute were pay and job security. The pilots wanted a substantial raise to make up for wage concessions they made in 1993 that helped Northwest avoid bankruptcy. They were also concerned that Northwest would shift their workload to smaller commuter jets flown by pilots who are paid less.
The airline said that it was willing to give the pilots a raise but that it could not afford to pay them more than their counterparts at other major airlines. The union says the pilots receive an average salary of $120,000 a year; the company puts that figure at $133,000.
But behind those apparently narrow differences were years of simmering resentment on both sides. The pilots accused Northwest of dragging its feet while the airline racked up record profits and its top executives cashed in stock options worth millions. The company said a group of radical leaders at the pilots union had been spoiling for a strike since early 1996.
The hard feelings had prevented the sides from returning to the table. Mr. Slater called John H. Dasburg, Northwest's chief executive, and J. Randolph Babbitt, president of the Air Line Pilots Association, to a meeting in Washington last week to see whether there were areas of compromise. Negotiators for both sides met separately in Chicago last weekend with Federal mediators.
But it was not until Mr. Lindsey flew to Minneapolis with Mr. Slater on Tuesday afternoon that negotiations began again in earnest, said those involved in the discussions. By late Wednesday night, after a long day of bargaining, the pilots had a made a compromise offer and the company had responded. A deal seemed within reach.
Yesterday morning, Mr. Lindsey was at the airport preparing to leave when he received a call from the White House. The pilots union was asking for him to return to the talks to help hammer out a settlement. The White House was already signaling that if there was no settlement, the President would order the pilots back to work. By afternoon, the two sides had a deal.
Mr. Clinton then called Mr. Dasburg and Mr. Babbitt to urge both men to wrap up the negotiations as soon as possible, an Administration official said.
One person involved in the negotiations who insisted on anonymity said the pilots had relaxed their wage demands and agreed instead to incentives like stock options.
Whether the union leaders will approve the the deal is an open question. Over the summer, Northwest reached an accord with negotiators for the International Association of Machinists, which represents 27,000 workers, but members voted down the contract in July.
Even if the pilot leaders approve the new contract, the damage to the airline has already been substantial.
Wall Street analysts estimate that Northwest has lost $250 million to $300 million and that it is likely to lose more as it begins fare discounts and other promotions to draw back passengers. The carrier's stock price has fallen more than 60 percent since spring, largely because of the strike.
The pilots have lost the wages they would have earned from flying and have weakened a company in a business in which which profits and growth provide them with the best job security and opportunities to increase their earnings.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN AIR LINES INC (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (57%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (57%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDWEST USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRLINES (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998



309 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES

 BODY:

COFFEE PRICES FALL. Coffee futures dived 4.4 percent amid fears that Brazil will devalue its currency, prompting a wave of selling. In New York, coffee for December delivery fell 4.85 cents, to $1.0415 a pound.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks coffee prices (near-month contract), since March 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COFFEE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COFFEE MARKETS (93%); COFFEE (92%); FUTURES (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); DEVALUATION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



310 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Gov. Weld's Successor in Massachusetts Battles for Own Term

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
Funny. Bill Weld made it look so easy.
But as his successor in the governor's corner office on Beacon Hill is finding out, running as a Republican in Democrat-packed Massachusetts is no serene stroll through the fall foliage. 
 Argeo Paul Cellucci, the longtime Lieutenant Governor who took over when the restless Mr. Weld cut short his second term to seek the ambassadorship to Mexico last year, is widely seen as one of the more vulnerable of the incumbents in the 36 races for governor this fall.
The Cook Political Report, a non-partisan political analysis, this summer put Massachusetts among just four states -- the others being Alabama, New Mexico and Rhode Island -- where Republican Governors face races considered tossups.
Political analysts say Mr. Cellucci's tough slogging is not all his fault. Among Massachusetts voters, 48 percent are register as independents, 39 percent as Democrats and just 13 percent as Republicans.
"So right away, the Republicans are at a big disadvantage, and have to get those independents who can go either way," said Gerry Chervinsky, president of KRC Communications Research and the pollster for WBZ-TV and The Boston Globe. "So Cellucci has to be vulnerable; he's an incumbent Republican in a heavily Democratic state."
But that is just one of the reasons Mr. Cellucci (pronounced se-LOO-chee) is struggling.
First, what should have been a light warmup fight, his contest for the Republican nomination in the primary on Tuesday against State Treasurer Joseph D. Malone, has turned into a punishing and decidedly nasty bout. Mr. Malone has been attacking Mr. Cellucci on everything from his personal debt, reported to be about $700,000, to his ethics.
"He has a credit-card mentality," Mr. Malone has said.
Mr. Cellucci says that his assets exceed his liabilities, and that the debt arose in the course of rearing children.
In the last week, as the fight has intensified to the point that state Republican leaders rebuked Mr. Malone for engaging in "gutter politics," the news media have focused on who leaked -- and possibly illegally obtained -- a report on Mr. Cellucci's personal finances. Though its source remains undisclosed, political Poirots figure that the Malone campaign's fingerprints are all over it.
Mr. Cellucci's campaign has been fighting back by accusing Mr. Malone of dirty tricks and attack-dog tactics -- as well as asserting that Mr. Malone has ethical violations of his own -- while depicting the acting Governor as a positive force in the state who has helped cut taxes by $1 billion and sought to improve education.
In fact, pollsters say, Mr. Malone's political assaults thus far may not have taken much of a toll on Mr. Cellucci, and appear instead to have boomeranged on Mr. Malone. A Boston Herald poll published on Wednesday found that 54 percent of likely Republican voters supported Mr. Cellucci compared with 25 percent for Mr. Malone; two weeks earlier, Mr. Cellucci had the support of 50 percent and Mr. Malone 32 percent.
But analysts say those are not the numbers Mr. Cellucci needs to worry about: the real challenge will come from his Democratic opponent.
The front-runner for that role is Scott Harshbarger, the State Attorney General who started his campaign so many months ago -- long before the official announcement in April -- that he seems to have been running for years.
Back last year when Representative Joseph P. Kennedy 2d still intended to run for governor, Mr. Harshbarger's candidacy looked pale in comparison. But in the wake of the skiing death of Michael Kennedy, his brother, Mr. Kennedy announced that he was dropping out of politics for now. And lately, though Mr. Harshbarger won only a narrow endorsement from his party at the convention in June, polls show the campaign picking up steam.
In debates with his two Democratic rivals, former State Senator Patricia McGovern and former United States Representative Brian Donnelly, Mr. Harshbarger has clearly been concerned more with attacking Mr. Cellucci's record than with his Democratic colleagues -- to the point that Ms. McGovern has begged him to keep Mr. Cellucci's name out of their debates.
Mr. Harshbarger's platform has emphasized his record as Attorney General in fighting the tobacco companies and enforcing environmental laws; he has also promised increased financing and deeper reform for education.
His poll numbers are looking rosy. A Boston Globe-WBZ-TV poll published on Sept. 1 found that 74 percent of Democrats viewed Mr. Harshbarger favorably, compared with the 63 percent of the much less numerous Republican voters who said they viewed Mr. Cellucci favorably.
The strong economic times would seem to favor an incumbent, and despite the state's Democratic leanings, Massachusetts voters have repeatedly forsaken their partisan tastes for Republican governors in the past.
But in a way, analysts say, Mr. Cellucci may suffer from an awkward situation in which his incumbency has been so brief that it leaves him open to attacks on his record while not allowing him to reap its fruits.
"To me," said Tubby Harrison, a Democratic pollster who has done some work for Ms. McGovern in this race, "it's a question of that he hasn't yet proved he's a governor -- he just inherited the Weld mantle."
Of course, Mr. Harshbarger has never been governor. In addition, analysts say he will need to overcome a tricky legacy of his own: voters' association of Democratic candidates with the former liberal Democratic Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, who presided over the state in its last economic downturn.
"They like Harshbarger a little better," Mr. Chervinsky said, "but he still has to convince people he's not another Dukakis."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Running as a Republican in Massachusetts is not easy, as Acting Gov. Argeo Paul Cellucci has found, and he also had to sprint on Monday to catch up to his spot in a Labor Day parade in Marlborough. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON HERALD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRIMARIES GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ETHICS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: CELLUCCI, ARGEO PAUL (ACTING GOV); MALONE, JOSEPH D; HARSHBARGER, SCOTT (ATTY GEN); KENNEDY, JOSEPH P 2D (REPR); GOLDBERG, CAREY PAUL CELLUCCI (97%); JOSEPH D MALONE (90%); SCOTT HARSHBARGER (75%); BILL WELD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



311 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: The Top Spot at Ford Is Returning to a Ford

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Sept. 11

 BODY:
One of the most storied families in American business reasserted its control over the world's second-largest company today as William Clay Ford Jr., a great-grandson of Henry Ford, was named the next chairman of the Ford Motor Company.
Ford's current chairman, chief executive and president, Alexander Trotman, who is 65, announced that he would retire at the end of December, a year earlier than expected. Mr. Ford, the 41-year-old chairman of the Ford board's committees on finance and the environment, will replace him as chairman of the company then. 
 Jacques A. Nasser, 50, president of Ford's worldwide automotive operations, will replace Mr. Trotman as the chief executive and president at the end of the year and will retain his current title.
In splitting the jobs of chairman and chief executive, Ford is following an approach popular overseas but seldom seen in the United States. General Motors, the world's largest company in terms of sales and share of global economic output, divided the jobs from 1992 to 1995 and chose an outside director as chairman, but only after the company's poor performance in the 1991 recession had destroyed Wall Street's confidence in G.M.'s management.
Mr. Ford, whose family holds a special class of stock that gives it 40 percent of the voting rights at Ford, said he had no interest in being chief executive. "Having watched how large this company has become, and how tough it is to manage, I think separating these jobs makes a lot of sense," said Mr. Ford, who is raising four children with his wife, Lisa.
Mr. Ford said that he would continue to run the Detroit Lions professional football team, which his ailing father owns, but that he would devote most of his time to Ford.
Wall Street analysts predicted that the combination of Mr. Nasser and Mr. Ford would work well as long as Mr. Ford had other commitments. The two men have been friends since the early 1980's, when Mr. Ford was one of eight financial analysts reporting to Mr. Nasser, who oversaw Ford's financial operations in Latin America and Asia at the time.
Henry Ford and his grandson, Henry Ford 2d, ran the company from its founding in 1903 until Henry Ford 2d stepped down in 1980. The company has been led by professional managers since then because the younger brother of Henry Ford 2d, William Clay Ford, was in poor health and the next generation of Ford family members was deemed too young.
A Princeton University graduate who spent a year studying business at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Mr. Ford has won a remarkable number of admirers on Wall Street for his intelligence and charisma. But his close ties to environmentalists and his periodic calls for the auto industry to pay closer attention to environmental issues have alarmed some auto executives. Their fear has been that the scion of a billionaire family could put environmental causes ahead of profits and undermine the industry's traditionally united front against pressures from environmental groups.
For example, G.M. and Chrysler executives were furious last January when Ford announced that it would voluntarily make all of its sport utility vehicles and Windstar mini-vans roughly as clean as cars in terms of tailpipe emissions, at a cost of about $100 a vehicle. Ford executives said at the time that Mr. Nasser had made the decision, but Mr. Nasser has said little about the environment over the years and has long been an ally of Mr. Ford.
Mr. Ford mentioned the environment several times at a news conference today, noting at the beginning of his prepared remarks, "My vision for the company is product leadership, the highest quality and customer satisfaction and environmental leadership."
In a subsequent interview, Mr. Ford acknowledged "a tension" between environmentalism and the pursuit of profits in the short term. But in the long term, he said, Ford can distinguish itself, selling more vehicles and attracting better employees, by earning a reputation for being environmentally friendly.
In any case, Ford is earning record profits mainly because of soaring sales of its full-size sport utility vehicles, like the Ford Expedition, and big pickup trucks like the F-250, which burn a lot of gasoline. "I don't think for a second he's proposing Ford stop making Expeditions and F-250's -- this is a company that brought out some of the world's largest and heaviest passenger vehicles," said Maryann Keller, a longtime auto analyst at Furman Selz.
News of the succession overshadowed another Ford announcement today, that it will withdraw from the auction of the Kia Motors Corporation of South Korea and its affiliate, the Asia Motors Company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Clay Ford Jr., left, will be chairman, with Jacques A. Nasser as chief. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; AUTOMOBILES EXECUTIVES (91%); FAMILY (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (63%); SPORTS (63%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; FORD, WILLIAM CLAY JR; FORD, HENRY (1863-1947); TROTMAN, ALEXANDER J; NASSER, JACQUES WILLIAM CLAY FORD (94%); HENRY FORD II (94%); DAVID FORD (93%); WILLIAM LACY CLAY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



312 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
No. 2 Man Remains No. 1 Ally

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
At the moment of President Clinton's greatest peril in office, Al Gore was where he has always been these last six years. By the President's side.
"I've stood with him as he has led this nation, and, on a personal note, I would like to tell you he is not only a great President, he has been a great friend," the Vice President said this morning in introducing Mr. Clinton at the annual White House prayer breakfast. 
 Later in the day Mr. Gore appeared again with the President, at a memorial service for victims of the embassy bombings in Africa last month and at a White House ceremony to honor Americans who played a role in the Northern Ireland peace accord.
And after the House had made public the report that argues the Whitewater independent counsel's case for impeachment, aides to Mr. Gore said they could not imagine his taking even one step back from his boss.
While Mr. Gore did not issue any immediate public response to the report, Lawrence J. Haas, his communications director, said: "Recent controversies have had no effect on the Vice President's day-to-day business activities or behavior. He continues to do the same thing he's done for the last six years: serve the country by helping the President implement the policies that have done so much to move this country forward. He will continue to do so."
Throughout the eight-month-old scandal, Mr. Clinton has had no stauncher ally than Mr. Gore, a certain Presidential contender in 2000 whose Boy Scout image has provided the Administration a vital means to convey policy initiatives at a time when many voters are distracted by the President's personal life, often at the expense of his political message.
Consistently describing Mr. Clinton as "my friend," Mr. Gore has steadily pounded away in appearances at rallies and town-hall-style meetings, telling Democrats of their need, more than ever, to organize and vote. While he never mentions the President's problems -- and did not today -- often implicit in his message is the expectation that Republicans will use the Lewinsky matter to galvanize their support at the state and local levels to get out the vote.
In remarks on Thursday to the Democratic Business Council, a group of party donors, the Vice President hailed Mr. Clinton as his friend and "the one person who stands at the heart" of the country's economic gains. He closed with what has become his standard conclusion: "Early to bed, early to rise, work like hell and organize."
The wounded status of Mr. Clinton, along with Mr. Gore's abiding loyalty, has helped make the Vice President a valuable campaigner for Democratic ideals and candidates. Not even the Justice Department's investigation into his role in 1996 campaign fund-raising has doused the eagerness of Democratic candidates to have him appear with them, even as some, like Gov. Parris N. Glendening of Maryland, have snubbed Mr. Clinton.
With the midterm elections two months away and the chances for Democratic gains in Congress diminishing, aides to Mr. Gore say he is in growing demand, especially by House Democrats in tight races. They say that he always intended to spend two or three days a week on the road campaigning this fall but that fallout from the report could prompt him to add to that schedule.
The next of the campaign trips begins on Saturday, when Mr. Gore leaves for Oregon and Washington State before joining Mr. Clinton next week at a Democratic fund-raiser in New York City.

GRAPHIC: Photo: UNITED FRONT. Vice President Al Gore yielding the lectern to President Clinton at the annual White House prayer breakfast yesterday. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ETHICS US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ETHICS (74%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); BOMBINGS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); RELIGION (56%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



313 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Producer Price Index Declined 0.4% Last Month

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
Producer prices registered their largest drop in seven months during August, another indication that falling commodity prices are holding inflation at bay.
The Labor Department said today that producer prices -- prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers of goods -- decreased four-tenths of 1 percent last month. The core price rate, which excludes food and energy costs, fell one-tenth of 1 percent. 
 The decline in prices over all was the largest since January's drop of six-tenths of 1 percent and was the sixth monthly decrease this year. Analysts had expected August's report to show no change in prices over all and an increase of two-tenths of 1 percent in the core rate.
In July, prices rose two-tenths of 1 percent over all. The core rate increased one-tenth of 1 percent.
The Asian recession has reduced global demand for oil and other commodities. "Commodity prices have broken down," according to the ISI Group in New York.
Last month, the Commodity Research Bureau index of 17 commodities, a closely watched indicator of inflation, fell to a 21-year low.
Energy prices decreased 2.3 percent in August as gasoline prices recorded their biggest drop since February 1991. Food prices declined four-tenths of 1 percent.
Prices of intermediate goods fell three-tenths of 1 percent. Excluding food and energy, the intermediate prices dropped one-tenth of 1 percent.
The prices of crude goods fell 2.7 percent in August. Excluding food and energy, they decreased 2 percent.
Prescription drug prices, which had surged earlier in the year, fell six-tenths of 1 percent in August. Prices for over-the-counter drugs also declined.
Tobacco prices increased last month, while producer costs for cars dropped 1.7 percent, the largest decline since October 1990.
In the year's first eight months, producer prices fell at a 1.4 percent annual rate, compared with a 1.9 percent decline during 1997's first eight months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) ISI GROUP INC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCER PRICE INDEX PRODUCER PRICES (94%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



314 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A Bug Turns Up in U.S.-China Trade Relations

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 11

 BODY:
To halt the invasion of a devastating insect pest, the United States said today that it would ban the import of all Chinese goods shipped in raw wood packing material, a move that is likely to strain China's economy -- as well as United States-China relations.
Officials said wooden crates and pallets used to ship Chinese goods to North America sometimes harbor the comely but voracious Asian long-horned beetle, which has emerged from the packing material after it arrived in warehouses to kill trees in five locations around New York and Chicago in the last two years. 
 The ban is likely to result in delays or higher costs for a third to half of China's $62 billion in exports to the United States -- at a time when China has already seen its export growth slowed by weak economies in other Asian countries.
United States officials acknowledged during a news conference conducted by video hookup in Beijing that the restrictions, scheduled to take effect in 90 days, would cause pain for Chinese business -- and for American importers as well. But they said that when Agriculture Department inspectors found the beetles boring through maple trees in suburban Chicago neighborhoods this summer, they felt compelled to act.
"We are very concerned," Dr. Isi A. Siddiqui, Deputy Assistant Agriculture Secretary, said during the news conference. "These new regulations are based on sound science and a real threat to U.S. environmental resources."
Government studies estimated $138 billion of damage to the United States economy if the beetles, which have no natural enemies in the United States and cannot be eradicated with pesticides, move to United States forests.
Dan Glickman, the Agriculture Secretary, said the action should not be seen as a trade sanction, adding that trade between the United States and China had grown to $80 billion this year from $5 billion 15 years ago.
"Our intention here is not to disrupt trade, but to lock out an unwanted guest that poses a serious economic and environmental threat," Mr. Glickman told an audience in Chicago.
The new regulations require that goods from China be packed in non-wood packing material or wood that has been treated with heat or fumigation to kill the insects. It was not clear whether Chinese exporters would be able to adopt new practices in the next 90 days or how much their costs would rise.
Although the Chinese Government had no official comment on the ban, Chinese officials have been aware of the looming possibility for weeks and were hoping to avert it.
"If the ban is imposed, China's exports will suffer, because a considerable amount of our export trade is packed in raw wood," one Agriculture Ministry official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
The Chinese Government has recently issued billions of dollars in Treasury bonds in an effort to stimulate the economy and insulate it against a slowdown caused by economic crises elsewhere in Asia or the summer's devastating floods in China. Although China's exports are still growing, the rate of growth has slowed this year, and a reduction of its thriving export sales to the United States would be hard to bear.
Dr. Siddiqui said the United States Government had been discussing the problem with China's quarantine agency for many months, ever since the beetles were discovered in warehouses. He stressed that the United States hoped to cooperate with the Chinese to minimize disruption to trade.
"Look, this is not an action we wanted to take, but this bug is eating trees in people's back yards and their front yards," said one United States official in Beijing. "Inspectors from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service are knocking on doors and saying, 'We have to cut down all the trees around your home.' "
In the United States, the beetles have so far been detected in wood packing from China in warehouses in 14 states. They have been found free in the environment in and around Chicago as well as in Brooklyn and Amityville, N.Y.
The beetle was identified as the Asian long-horned beetle by a Cornell University entomologist, Richard Hoebeke, after Brooklyn residents noticed mysterious half-inch holes in their trees. The beetle's larvae drill through trees' bark into the wood, where they undergo metamorphosis into large black beetles with bright white spots and long elegant antennas.
In Brooklyn, as in three subsequent infestations, inspectors had to order the destruction of all affected trees, since there is currently no other way to control the pests.
United States officials disagreed somewhat over just how much of China's exports were packed in untreated wood, with estimates ranging from 25 percent to more than 90 percent, and on how difficult it would be for Chinese to adjust to the new requirements.
Ma Zhongmei, an official at the export department of the North China Air Transportation Company in Beijing, said about one-third of her company's customers packed goods in raw wood. She added that this sort of packing was most commonly used for high-value items, like large machines and factory equipment.
"These customers could have used plywood, but they chose raw wood to reduce cost," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHICAGO (ILL); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONTAINERS AND PACKAGING; BEETLES; PESTICIDES AND PESTS; TREES AND SHRUBS INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (91%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (86%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); INSECTICIDES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); INSPECTIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); TRENDS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH; SIDDIQUI, ISI A (DEPUTY SEC); GLICKMAN, DAN (SEC)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



315 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Goodbye World!;
2 Asian Economies Seek to Keep Global Markets at Bay

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 11

 BODY:
When Hong Kong and Malaysia placed curbs on their stock markets last week, the outcry from foreign investors was immediate and indignant. The governments were committing heresy, these critics said, by turning their backs on the free market in the search for a quick economic fix.
But Hong Kong and Malaysia are not playing to an international audience. They are struggling to ease the pain of a punishing economic downturn on their people. In these straitened times, when people are more worried about getting by than going global, building walls around some Asian markets has become an increasingly attractive way of holding the economic typhoon at bay. 
 As emerging markets from Brazil to Russia tumble into crisis, Asia's isolationist tendencies are alarming senior American officials and could set a profoundly dangerous precedent for the global economy.
"We could have an unraveling of the global capital markets if the countries that opt out do better than the countries that stick to the orthodoxy," said Paul Krugman, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Most major Asian countries still operate reliably open markets. But as the regional financial crisis sinks into a prolonged recession, it has shaken the faith of many here in the free-market system.
"It's no longer writing on the wall," said Sir Donald Tsang, the financial secretary of Hong Kong, who sought to curtail certain types of stock trading and ordered a big government intervention in the stock market late last month. "People have begun to close up. Look at our Malaysian friends."
On Sept. 2, Malaysia discontinued trading in its currency, the ringgit, and imposed sweeping capital controls on its markets. Among the provisions: currency held outside Malaysia will become worthless in a month; foreign investors cannot withdraw their capital for a year. Some analysts said Malaysia had effectively checked itself out of the global economy.
Hong Kong's approach was quite different. Rather than close off its markets, it plunged into them with a ferocity that left investors slack-jawed. Between Aug. 14 and Aug. 28, the government spent an estimated $15 billion to buy shares in an effort to prop the stock market. It also passed new regulations that restrict the short-selling of stocks and rein in the free-wheeling futures market.
Unlike Malaysia, Hong Kong's currency is still fully convertible, and there are no restraints on moving capital in or out of the territory.
Still, Malaysia and Hong Kong have a common complaint: the global market -- with its sharp-eyed speculators and will-o'-the-wisp capital flows -- is causing too much pain. With their stock markets crashing, unemployment soaring and currencies under attack, these governments feel they can no longer give foreign investors carte blanche in their markets.
"We're seeing a general loss of patience with trying to satisfy the international marketplace," Mr. Krugman said. "International investors demand a lot, and it's starting to look like these countries can't do it while rebuilding their economies."
The appeal of capital controls is that they enable governments to pursue economic policies -- such as lowering interest rates -- that might be untenable in an open market. Malaysia slashed rates after its intervention, giving an immediate lift to its stock exchange. If it had tried that when the ringgit was convertible, it almost certainly would have led to a further devaluation.
With Indonesia, Thailand, and South Korea suffering from similar ills, such a strategy might be appealing to their Governments as well. One significant complication is that these countries are receiving loans from the International Monetary Fund, which favors open markets. But Mr. Krugman noted that Russia was getting I.M.F. loans, even though it had suspended trading of the ruble.
Mr. Krugman has been both an observer and a player in the recent debate over free markets in Asia. In an article in the last issue of Fortune magazine, he proposed capital controls as a way for Asian countries to gain breathing space in order to repair their economies.
Scarcely a week after Mr. Krugman's article appeared, Malaysia's Prime Minister, Mahathir bin Mohamad, announced his country's new restraints. Mr. Krugman disavowed responsibility for Malaysia's action, but advisers to Mr. Mahathir said the Fortune article lent a veneer of academic respectability to the move.
"The whole thrust is that in extreme circumstances, government intervention is kosher," said Noordin Sopiee, chairman of the Institute of Strategic and International Studies, a research organization in Kuala Lumpur, which helped draft Malaysia's new regulations.
Meddling in the markets is nothing new in Asia, or in much of the rest of the world, for that matter. Japan and South Korea have both intervened in their stock markets, while Taiwan imposes a modest form of capital controls. China maintains capital controls and a nonconvertible currency. But as Asia's growth exploded in the 1980's, most of the countries in the region adopted at least the semblance of a free market.
And why not? In 1996, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines enjoyed a net capital inflow of $96 billion from foreign investors. Outposts like Hong Kong and Singapore became gleaming financial centers by promoting their hands-off governments and open markets.
Today, Mr. Noordin acknowledged, "the prevailing ideology is that you must not touch market forces."
American officials are rushing to reassert the free-market standard around the world. Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, said in a speech in Washington on Wednesday: "It would be a catastrophe if countries were to develop the idea that somehow withdrawing from the global system was right, and that building the right foundation for a market economy was wrong."
Malaysia has come under withering criticism from foreign investors, who say that its controls will scare off investment, retard economic reform and end up hurting the very people they were supposed to protect.
"Capital controls are like heroin," said Mac Overton, a fund manager at MBF Unit Trust in Hong Kong. "Once you get addicted, it's hard to get off."
Mr. Overton was equally critical of the Hong Kong government, which he said had artificially inflated the stock market by buying so many shares. Moreover, he said the government had imposed voluminous rules and regulations, which made day-to-day investing in Hong Kong an uncertain affair.
"How do I know they're not going to change the rules again?" said Mr. Overton, who said he had sold all his Hong Kong investments.
The economist Milton Friedman, who is a self-described fan of Hong Kong, said the government's intervention was a "crazy idea."
"Hong Kong has essentially undermined its reputation as a financial center," Mr. Friedman said in a telephone interview from his home in Northern California. "It cannot remain a financial center if it manipulates its stock market."
Sir Donald acknowledged that Hong Kong's intervention had alienated some of its staunchest supporters. But he said the government had little choice but to act because the former British colony was under attack by a cabal of foreign hedge funds. In what he called a "double play," Sir Donald said the hedge funds speculated, in succession, against the Hong Kong dollar and the stock market.
Since the Hong Kong dollar is linked to the United States dollar at the fixed exchange rate, the brunt of the attacks was absorbed by the stock market, which dropped 16 percent in the first two weeks of August.
"The attack was sustained and professional, and we believed that if we did not do anything about it, the consequences would be calamitous," said Sir Donald, who will meet with investors in the United States and Europe later this month to reassure them of Hong Kong's commitment to an open market.
Hong Kong's buying spree lifted the stock market out of the doldrums, though it surrendered much of its gains this week. The benchmark Hang Seng index declined 3.5 percent today to close at 7,578.48.
The long-term consequences of the campaign are potentially thorny, however. Hong Kong spent $15 billion of its $96 billion in foreign reserves to buy stocks. And it is now the largest shareholder in several of the territory's leading companies, including the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation. It is unclear how the government can sell off these holdings without depressing the market.
For all that, the government has been widely supported by the people of Hong Kong. A recent survey commissioned by The South China Morning Post showed that economic confidence was rising and approval ratings rose sharply after the intervention.
"The government cannot let it get worse and worse," said Shee Leng Leng, a 29-year-old homemaker. "How do you define a free market? Nobody will regard Hong Kong as a free market if it becomes too bad."
In Malaysia, officials said capital controls would give the Government the chance to repair the economy. They said such repairs would be impossible if Malaysia continued to be buffeted by sudden outflows of capital or speculative attacks on its currency.
"Our belief is that the international currency trading system has gone stark raving crazy," Mr. Noordin said. "Making a rapid rush for a tranquil harbor was a wise course. There seemed to be no alternative."
But outsiders are skeptical that Malaysia will reform its debt-laden banking system or tackle endemic corruption without pressure from the global market.
Prime Minister Mahathir's capital controls are a logical extension of his past practice of blaming foreign currency speculators for the economic collapse. Officials point to a rise in the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange as evidence that Mr. Mahathir's policies are striking a chord with the public.
Appeals to nationalism are not limited to Malaysia. In Hong Kong, which prides itself as the multicultural hub of Asia, the debate over government intervention has taken on a distinct us-versus-them tone, with officials and legislators repeatedly drawing a line between local "investors" and foreign "speculators."
For his part, Sir Donald sought to dispel any notion that Hong Kong was blaming outsiders for its economic ailments. "We love foreign investors here," he said emphatically. "It's a bit unfair to tar my name with some other foreign leaders who might have different notions."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Investors crowded the DBS Bank office in Singapore on Monday to determine the status of their Malaysian shares. (Reuters); Sir Donald Tsang (Associated Press); Paul Krugman (Michael Quan for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Strings Attached"
Seeking to protect themselves from the ravages of the free market, Hong Kong and Malaysia have imposed different kinds of controls on capital and finance.
 
HONG KONG
-- Purchased $15 billion in shares to buoy stock market.
-- Prohibited short selling of certain stocks.
-- Toughened penalties for violations of securities laws.
-- Heightened disclosure requirements for investors who buy futures contracts.
 
MALAYSIA
-- Currency fixed at 3.8 ringgit to the dollar.
-- Ringgit outside the country becomes worthless after Sept. 30.
-- Foreign portfolio investment must remain inside the country for one year.
-- Nonresidents may not cross the border with more than 1,000 ringgit ($263).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (97%); MALAYSIA (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (69%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MALAYSIA; HONG KONG; HONG KONG (97%); MALAYSIA (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CURRENCY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SHORT SELLING; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FUTURES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); DEREGULATION (73%); BONDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); CURRENCIES (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); 

PERSON: ;LANDLER, MARK; KRUGMAN, PAUL (PROF); TSANG, DONALD (SIR) PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



316 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Gets a Lift Of Nearly 180 In Wide Rally

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Technology and financial stocks led the market higher yesterday, as a few earnings bright spots showed through the fanfare over the release of the Whitewater independent counsel's report on President Clinton to Congress and concerns about the prospects for Mr. Clinton's impeachment.
The jump of 179.96 points in the Dow Jones industrial average, while strong, was not enough to wipe out the loss of 249.48 points on Thursday or to pull the Dow back into positive territory for the year. 
 But the rally did leave the Dow up 2 percent for the week, breaking a two-week decline of 10.5 percent. It is only the second week since the Dow reached its peak on July 17 that the indicator has finished up. The other major market measures, however, recouped all their Thursday losses, ended higher for the week and are up about 4 percent for the year.
The rally faltered a little after the release of the report on President Clinton's relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky, but gained steam in the afternoon, raising the question of how much impact news of the report had on the stock market. Investors may have been encouraged by the apparent lack of any major surprises in the report.
But until there is a clearer idea of Mr. Clinton's fate, the impeachment process will probably be more of an excuse to sell while the economic outlook here and abroad and the prospects for corporate earnings in the quarters ahead will provide real direction to the market.
"The issue every portfolio manager has to be grappling with is what is going to happen to earnings," said Douglas R. Cliggott, the United States equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Securities.
In Europe, stocks were mixed after sharp declines on Thursday. The Financial Times index of 100 stocks in Britain dropped 18 points, or nearly four-tenths of 1 percent, to 5,118.60, but that was enough to push the index into negative territory for the year, with a decline of three-tenths of 1 percent. The markets in Germany, France and Italy still have gains in the teens for the year despite sharp selloffs since mid-July.
There was a bounce in Latin America, which seemed to get a boost from Wall Street. The Bovespa index in Brazil, which plunged 15.8 percent on Thursday, jumped 13.39 percent yesterday, while the Mexican market rose 2.16 percent after falling 9.8 percent the day before.
But the market environment is unchanged, with the American economy still threatened by the turmoil in Asia, the political problems in Russia and the spread of the global crisis to Latin America. Adding the new focus on Clinton's future, which will occupy Washington and the media's attention in the weeks ahead, seems to leave little fertile ground on which the stock market could build a lasting rally. But it should add to the volatility, which could damage investor confidence.
"We're in an environment where the market can't rocket back," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, the chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers. "That is why this is not like last October," he added, referring to the swift rebound after the Dow fell 554 points on Oct. 27.
But he also argued that things were not as dire as they appeared. "There is no one person in charge," he said, referring to the leadership needed to help to contain the crisis and the fact that Mr. Clinton and other leaders seem distracted or incapable. But the view that nobody is doing anything, he said, "is just wrong." He added, "I don't think that we are going to stand by and let this crisis push Latin America and even Canada into a recession."
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, will be asked for more details on his and the central bank's intentions when he testifies before the House Banking Committee on the global outlook on Wednesday. The record 380.53-point rally in the Dow on Tuesday was prompted by his indication that the central bank would consider a rate cut if the foreign drag on the United States economy worsened.
His comments, which were made on Sept. 4, have also helped push the dollar lower as investors think both an economic slowdown here and a rate cut will make the American currency less attractive. Yesterday, the dollar fell to 130.82 Japanese yen from 134.23 yen on Thursday; it is down 11.2 percent against the yen since Aug. 11. While the dollar rose slightly against the German mark yesterday, it is down 6.2 percent since Aug. 26.
Intel jumped 5 7/8, to 8415/16 , after the company announced late on Thursday that third-quarter sales should be 8 to 10 percent higher than in the second quarter. Oracle rose 3 3/8, to 25 1/2. Also late on Thursday, the company reported a 30 percent rise in profits for its first quarter.
But it is not clear yet if these positive results are a sign that the technology business is turning around and may, as it did earlier this year, help lead the entire stock market higher again.
Although analysts said it was risky to extrapolate too broadly from these companies' reports, they were considered positive.
"I think we're two-thirds to three-fourths of the way through a down cycle, which means things should stop getting worse," said John Rossi, a managing director at BancAmerica Robertson Stephens.
Financial stocks, which have been among the hardest hit because of losses in Russia and Latin America, also rallied. American Express jumped 8 7/8, to 78 3/8, after announcing that economic problems in Asia and other emerging markets were having little impact on earnings.
The Dow, which rose 2.4 percent, finished at 7,795.50. The broader Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks climbed 28.87, or 3 percent, to 1,009.06, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq index finished 56.31 points, or 3.6 percent, higher at 1,641.64. The Russell index of 2,000 of smaller-company stocks rose 8.65 points, or 2.5 percent, to 353.62, ending a seven-week decline of 25 percent.
In the bond market, the price of the 30-year bond fell 21/32 , to 104, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.23 percent, from 5.19 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since September 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (65%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); IMPEACHMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



317 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Japanese Economy Continues to Shrink
In the starkest sign so far of the depth of Japan's recession, the Government said that the economy contracted in the April-to-June quarter by an annual rate of 3.3 percent, nearly twice as steep a fall as most economists had expected. It was the first time that Japan's economy had contracted for three consecutive quarters.
The data suggest that the core of the economy slid even more rapidly than it did earlier in the year, and there are fears that the recession could worsen. The figures were released after the close of a volatile session in Japanese stocks. The Nikkei index plunged 749.05 points, or 5.11 percent. Page C2. 

Economic Shift Indicated in Russia
Handily winning a confirmation vote in the Russian Parliament, Prime Minister Yevgeni M. Primakov signaled a sharp shift toward a more socialist economic model by endorsing two of the Communist Party's hand-picked candidates for top posts, including the head of the Central Bank. Mr. Primakov gave no details of his economic program but invoked the New Deal as an example of the measured use of Government intervention to rescue a country from economic depression. A1.
 
American Express Resisting Turmoil
American Express, seeking to stem a 41 percent drop in its stock since mid-July, said the turmoil in emerging markets and signs that the American economy was slowing were having only a modest effect on earnings. Its shares rose $8.875, to $78.375.
 
Toshiba to Post First-Half Loss
Toshiba said that it would report a loss for the fiscal first half -- its first for the period in 48 years -- because of plunging memory chip prices, slumping Asian demand and foundering sales of personal computers and peripheral products. The company said it expected a loss of 25 billion yen, or $191 million, in the half ending on Sept. 30.
 
Producer Prices Fell in August
The Labor Department said that producer prices -- prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers of goods -- decreased four-tenths of 1 percent in August, their largest drop in seven months, indicating that falling commodity prices are holding inflation at bay. The decline in prices was the largest since January's drop of six-tenths of 1 percent and the sixth monthly decrease this year. C15.
 
Possible Delay in Microsoft Trial
Lawyers from Microsoft and the Justice Department have tentatively agreed to push the date of the company's antitrust trial back to Oct. 15 from Sept. 23. The possible delay was negotiated after a hearing on Microsoft's request to have the suit dismissed. C15.
 
Homestake Revises Buyout Offer
Homestake Mining and Prime Resources Group have agreed to a revised bid for Homestake to buy the 49.4 percent of Prime it does not own, increasing the transaction's value to $330 million. C3.
 
Coffee Futures Decline 4.4%
Coffee futures dived 4.4 percent amid fears that Brazil will devalue its currency, prompting a wave of selling. In New York, coffee for December delivery fell 4.85 cents, to $1.0415 a pound. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,795.50 up 179.96
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.23% up 0.04
The Dollar -- 130.82 yen down 3.41
 
Graph shows "Producer Prices" from March 1997 to August 1998.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (91%); 6502 (TSE) (91%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); ABX (TSX) (50%); ABX (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (50%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (91%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); BARRICK GOLD CORP (50%); HOMESTAKE MINING&PRIME RESOURCES GROUP (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOMESTAKE MINING&PRIME RESOURCES GROUP (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (61%); LITIGATION (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



318 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: A Growth Spurt for Union Square Park

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Having been transformed from a haven for drug dealers into a verdant jewel in a resurgent neighborhood, Union Square Park is about to undergo its next big transformation: a doubling of its size by turning adjacent pavement into parkland.
The city plan, to be presented to Community Board 5 on Monday evening, calls for the park to be expanded by 50 to 130 feet on its west side and 10 to 20 feet to the south. A traffic triangle at the southeast corner will be nearly tripled in size to 20,000 square feet to accommodate traffic. When funds are available in the future, the rest of the ellipse-shaped park will be expanded so that it will resemble more of an actual square. 
 "It's a park in transition," said Henry J. Stern, the city's Parks Commissioner. "Just as you wouldn't recognize the park of 20 years ago today, in 20 years you will no longer be able to recognize today's park."
The park, once decrepit, is already considered a major success story of urban revitalization, having helped draw new housing, glittering stores and restaurants, and thousands upon thousands of visitors to what was, little more than a decade ago, a dowdy factory and retailing area. And as the local economy has improved, local businesses have taken on more of the job of caring for the park. Last year, for instance, merchants began picking up half the tab for a full-time gardener.
"Union Square is a classic example of how fixing up a park can make a dramatic change in the surrounding neighborhood," said Marcia Reiss, policy director for the Parks Council, a nonprofit research and advocacy group.
Gary H. Richard, president of the electronics retailer P. C. Richard & Son, which three years ago opened its first Manhattan store in the area, said, "It gets better every day." Referring to the park and the surrounding business district, he said, "There's life all over the place."
Oddly, Union Square was not originally, and never has been officially, mapped as parkland. In 1832, the State Legislature acquired it as "a public space," and as such, it was intended principally to be the place where the roads and people of a growing metropolis intersected. Indeed, its name owed nothing to its historical importance as a meeting place for organized labor, but rather denoted the union of two roads, the Albany Post Road (now Broadway) and Boston Road (now Fourth Avenue).
But in their relentless search for a bit of open space, New Yorkers made Union Square a park in the truest sense. In part, the irregular oval from 14th Street to 17th Street east of Broadway became a stage for history: People gathered there to celebrate the end of the Civil War, to mourn the deaths of Lincoln and Grant and to protest the executions of Sacco and Vanzetti.
But Union Square -- which is to be designated a National Landmark today in honor of its importance to labor -- was also a place for the smaller, more tender turnings of the urban drama. In the 1960's, it had a program to provide day care for shoppers at 25 cents an hour -- called "Check a Child" -- and today, the park's three playgrounds sizzle with nonstop youthful energy.
Despite the public space's ambiguous legal definition, New Yorkers have always insisted that it must first and foremost be a park -- and it has changed forms many times. Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, the designers of Central Park, performed the first make-over in the 1870's, and in the 1930's it was raised four feet to make room for a subway mezzanine. The administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch remodeled it in the 1980's.
Though parks officials are reluctant to give details of the latest plans before presenting them to the local community board, designers say that park visitors can expect antique bishop's-crook lampposts, granite-block and bluestone paving, and ample new plantings of flowers, shrubs and trees.
But the main focus is expansion. "We're expanding the park at all sides below 15th Street," said Lawrence Mauro, a landscape architect who is serving as project manager. He says future plans include new restrooms as part of a full-scale restoration of the crumbling limestone structure at the park's northern edge.
The current project involves two phases. The first is the expansion and beautification of the southwestern corner of the park at a cost of $2.2 million, to be paid from the city's capital budget. The other is the increase in size of the traffic triangle to 21,000 square feet from 6,900 square feet to handle traffic better. Those changes, to cost $400,000, will be paid for by the Metropolitan Transit Authority.
A major goal is to give clean definition to the perimeter of the park, which has been marked by temporary curbs and other barriers. "You now don't know where the park starts," Mr. Mauro said. "By the wall? Out at the curb? People aren't sure where to walk, where to drive."
Two local business groups, the 14th Street Local Development Corporation and the 14th Street Business Improvement District, are responsible for improvements in park maintenance. They have helped the Parks Department with sanitation, security and groundskeeping.
But perhaps the most notable feature of the park is the Union Square Greenmarket, which has become one of the city's biggest markets for fresh produce. When it started, in 1976, conditions were sharply different.
"There were no benches, no lawns, no working fountains," said Joel Patraker, assistant director of the market. He said it was not uncommon for drug addicts to topple farmers' tables and steal money from the upset cash boxes.
Now, 70 sellers come four days a week to peddle 200 varieties of hot peppers, 100 varieties of apples and many other products. The farmers plant flowers and shrubs around the statue of Mohandas K. Gandhi and elsewhere.
"The gardens have never looked better," Mr. Patraker said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Union Square Park will nearly double in size under a city plan, with its shape, an ellipse, becoming more of an actual square. A shopper at the Union Square Greenmarket, next to the park. The market opened in 1976 and is now perhaps the park's most popular feature. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. D7); Luna Park restaurant is in the plaza facing the park's north end, where a crumbling limestone structure will be restored under the city's plan. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCRI (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); NAICS443141 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (53%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: P C RICHARD & SON CORP (53%); PC RICHARD & SON INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNION SQUARE PARK (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HISTORY PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); RETAILERS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (58%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS; STERN, HENRY J (COMR)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



319 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: State Gets $97 Million Welfare-to-Work Grant

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The Federal Government announced yesterday that it was awarding a $96.9 million grant to New York State to help welfare recipients make the transition to regular jobs.
The grant -- $58.4 million of it for New York City -- will be used to pay for child care, training and transportation in an effort to provide the support that welfare recipients need to hold jobs. 
 "Our goal is to insure that when New York's newest workers get jobs, they can keep them," Alexis Herman, the Secretary of Labor, said yesterday in a statement. "These funds will help some of the hardest-to-serve welfare recipients get the support services they need, which can make the difference between success and failure."
In a telephone interview yesterday, Secretary Herman added that the Federal Government was requiring New York State to put up $48 million in matching funds to supplement the Federal welfare-to-work grant.
About 70 percent of the money, government officials said, will be concentrated on chronically unemployed recipients who lack high school diplomas and have low math and reading scores, poor work histories and substance abuse problems.
The grant is part of $2.2 billion in Federal money being awarded to states over a two-year period to finance local programs to help long-term welfare recipients hold jobs as Federal legislation requires states and cities to move hundreds of thousands of such people into jobs.
State and city officials welcomed the grant money. "It's a recognition that New York City and New York State are on the cutting edge of welfare reform," said Anthony P. Coles, senior adviser to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. "The money is going to be used to expand our efforts to move people into work" and "move more people from dependency into self-sufficiency."
Thanks in large part to cuts in the welfare rolls in New York City, the number of welfare recipients statewide has fallen by 547,000, or 30 percent, over the last four years.
"We've had tremendous success in reducing the welfare rolls in New York State under Governor Pataki," said Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki. "This grant will help us continue that success by targeting those people who need extra help in getting off of welfare."
Eighty-five percent of the money going to New York State will be distributed to individual counties; Mr. Pataki's office will distribute the remaining 15 percent to strengthen employment services for people with special needs and to publicize services for welfare-to-work programs. The grant money can also be used for housing, substance-abuse treatment and job creation programs through wage subsidies.
New York is the 38th state to receive a grant under this program. The Labor Department is completing its work before announcing a grant for New Jersey, and it has awarded $12 million to Connecticut for work transition programs. The Federal Government is also making $711 million in grants available on a competitive basis to community-based groups helping welfare recipients make the transition to work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FEDERAL AID (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); CITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (66%); CHILD CARE (57%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



320 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: THE FINAL PUSH;
Democratic Candidates for Attorney General Still Struggling to Gain Attention

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

 BODY:
With only days before the primary, the four Democratic candidates for attorney general are blanketing towns and cities with letters and fliers, jamming the airwaves with television and radio advertisements and traveling the state in a last-ditch effort to draw attention to a race that has drawn little of it so far.
But one public-opinion poll after another has shown that large numbers of voters have yet to take notice of the race and are undecided about which candidate they will support in Tuesday's primary. That has the four Democratic candidates struggling not only to attract attention but also to stand out in a race in which there are few differences in ideology or in the way they say they would carry out the job of attorney general. 
 "Nobody is running as the flaming liberal of the party, nor is anyone running as the party's centrist," said John Zogby, a pollster who heads the John Zogby Group of Utica, N.Y. "So when everybody is saying the same thing from essentially the same place, it greatly reduces passion for one side or the other."
This is not to say that all things are equal among the candidates, who are Eliot L. Spitzer, a wealthy Manhattan lawyer and former prosecutor; Catherine M. Abate, a State Senator from Manhattan; G. Oliver Koppell, a former Attorney General, and Evan A. Davis, who was a counsel to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
Mr. Spitzer has used his vast personal wealth for an advertising campaign that has won him the name recognition that the other candidates sorely lack and do not have enough money to buy.
To the extent that there have been clashes among the candidates, they have centered on Mr. Spitzer and his money. The three other candidates say he is using money from his father, a real estate developer, to buy the election.
"When Eliot comes on the air with more than $4 million worth of television advertising -- sure, it's an obstacle," Mr. Davis said the other day on an Albany radio talk show.
"I'm hoping they are going to see that this television is not the way to evaluate the candidate," Mr. Davis said of the voters.
Mr. Spitzer has shrugged off the attacks as absurd. He has said that using his own money to finance his campaign means that he is beholden to no one. And he has also argued -- and most political experts agree -- that it will take a well-financed campaign to unseat the Republican incumbent, Dennis C. Vacco, who has a formidable campaign war chest.
That fight aside, each of the candidates is, by and large, roaming the state this final weekend in a frantic push to pick up endorsements from prominent politicians and groups and to persuade voters they have the best credentials to be the state's top law-enforcement officer.
In Mr. Spitzer's case, he has managed to get the backing of some important Democratic leaders, many of whom have received political contributions from him. Among Mr. Spitzer's supporters are the county chairmen of Erie and Westchester Counties, as well as the mayors of Albany and Rochester.
Mr. Spitzer's pitch on the stump is simple: his years of experience in the courtroom make him the most suited to defend the people of New York. He has focused on an array of popular issues, from forcing corporate polluters to clean up the Hudson River to using product liability laws to force gun manufacturers to install safety locks on their products.
Ms. Abate is shoring up support among influential labor unions, women's groups, gay organizations and other historically Democratic constituencies.
In her ads and speeches, she continues to point to her experience at running large agencies -- including the New York City probation and corrections departments -- as evidence that she can run an office as large as the attorney general's. And she has spoken passionately about issues affecting middle-class families, from child care to health care.
"As a wife, mother and New York's attorney general, I'll protect our families' health and economic well-being," Ms. Abate says in a 30-second television advertisement that began running this week.
Mr. Koppell was selected by the State Legislature in 1993 to complete the unexpired term of Robert Abrams, but he was defeated in his bid for a full term in office. He has been asking voters to look at his accomplishments during the time he was attorney general, from cracking down on consumer fraud to suing corporate polluters. Mr. Koppell, who also represented the Bronx in the State Assembly for 23 years, has all but locked up support from political leaders in that borough, as well as his former Assembly colleagues.
Mr. Davis remains the outsider. His only prominent supporter is his former boss, Mr. Cuomo, who is now being featured in radio ads urging people to support Mr. Davis. Nevertheless, Mr. Davis is trying to capitalize on his outsider status, casting himself as the anti-establishment candidate and traveling to poor urban neighborhoods with his message.
He is the only candidate who has placed voluntary limits on his own fund-raising and has also refused to take money from unions, corporations and political action committees. He says that makes him the only candidate who is not beholden to special interests.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: UTICA, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ATTORNEYS GENERAL; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ADVERTISING ATTORNEYS GENERAL (94%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); LAWYERS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); RADIO ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); REAL ESTATE (65%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; SPITZER, ELIOT L; ABATE, CATHERINE M (SEN); KOPPELL, G OLIVER; DAVIS, EVAN A ELIOT SPITZER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



321 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1553 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-6
 
Russian Parliament Approves Prime Minister
The Russian Parliament approved Yevgeny M. Primakov as President Boris N. Yeltsin's nominee to be Prime Minister, after twice rejecting Mr. Yeltsin's first choice, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin. Parliament endorsed two members of the Communist Party for the country's top posts, including the head of Russia's Central Bank, raising questions about the future of economic reforms. A1 

Holbrooke Nomination Stalled
The nomination of Richard C. Holbrooke as United States representative to the United Nations has been delayed indefinitely while the Justice Department investigates his contacts with former State Department colleagues after he left the department two years ago for a career on Wall Street. A3
 
Weekend Elections in Bosnia
Bosnians are to vote this weekend for their three-member presidency, members of the Federal Parliament and leaders of the Bosnian Serb Republic and the Muslim-Croat Federation. One candidate getting some support from the West is Ljubisa Savic, whose war record has made him a source of fear. A6
 
Hamas Promises Retaliation
Hamas vowed to avenge with bloodshed the the Israeli Army's killing of two brothers who were key operatives, threatening a new wave of violence after a year of refraining from deadly attacks. Wary of reprisals from the Islamic militant group, Israel put its troops on high alert and sealed its borders with the West Bank and Gaza. A4
 
Cambodian Protest Attacked
The Cambodian Government turned loose a band of thugs to shoot and attack pro-democracy demonstrators. The military warned that it could not allow what it called the "worrying anarchy" of the continuing opposition protests. A6
 
Iran Threatens Taliban
Iran vowed revenge against the militant Taliban movement that controls most of neighboring Afghanistan, with the Revolutionary Guards saying that the Taliban should be given "what they so richly deserve" for killing nine Iranian diplomats. A4
 
Mexican Drug Trafficker Slain
Rafael Munoz Talavera, who was accused of being the mastermind of a drug deal that led to the largest cocaine seizure in history and later fought for control of a drug cartel, was found dead, his body bound and riddled with gunshot wounds, in Ciudad Juarez, across from El Paso, Tex. A4
 
Unrest in Lesotho
The head of the Lesotho Defense Force, Lieut. Gen. Makhula Mosakeng, resigned in a sudden upheaval within the military of the small southern African kingdom. About two dozen of the army's senior commanders were taken prisoner by junior officers reported to sympathize with opposition political parties who say elections last May were a fraud. (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL A7-16, 20; B1-18
 
Starr Report Makes Case For Possible Impeachment
The House released a scathing report by the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, who accused President Clinton of violating his Constitutional duty to faithfully execute the law by committing such crimes as perjury and obstruction of justice; he cited 11 counts of possible impeachable offenses, all stemming from Mr. Clinton's relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky. The House must now judge whether Mr. Starr has presented a compelling case for impeachment. The White House angrily responded that the report was a lurid and politically motivated attempt to humiliate the President and to overturn the results of two elections. A1
 
President Clinton tearfully told a roomful of clerics that he had sinned and, with Hillary Rodham Clinton in the audience, asked for Ms. Lewinsky's forgiveness. A1
 
President Clinton's lawyers issued a 78-page response to the Starr report that sought to portray the President's behavior as a personal failing for which he had accepted responsibility but not serious enough to warrant his impeachment. A9
 
The House voted, 363 to 63, to make public the Starr report and to begin the process that could lead to the first impeachment proceedings against a President in 24 years. A13
 
Republicans and Democrats alike said that while there was no single stunning revelation in the Starr report, they were deeply distressed by its graphic and extensive details. A13
 
Ms. Lewinsky told investigators that the President's friend, Vernon E. Jordan Jr., had directed her to destroy evidence of her relationship with Mr. Clinton, the report said. A15
 
Legal and political history offers a vague set of interpretations of the Constitution's declaration that a President can be removed for treason, bribery "or other high crimes and misdemeanors." A7
 
Millions of Internet users devoured the Starr report in the first experiment on a massive scale in electronic communication between the Government and its citizens. A11
 
Much of the editing and writing of the Starr report was done by Brett Kavanaugh, a Yale-trained lawyer, and Stephen Bates, a Harvard graduate, lawyer and journalist who has written several nonfiction books. A8
 
Rain Puts Houston Under Water
Tropical Storm Frances swirled up the Texas Gulf Coast and dumped nearly a foot of rain on Houston. No deaths or serious injuries were reported in Houston or other communities along the Texas coast hit by the slow-moving storm. A16
 
Drugs, Crime and Treatment
A Government survey said that addicts who underwent treatment were considerably less likely to consume drugs or commit crimes to support their use, even after five years. Adolescents were the conspicuous exception, with the number who smoked crack cocaine and abused alcohol actually rising after treatment. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION D7-12
 
Divers Find 2d 'Black Box' In Swissair Jet Wreckage
Divers off Nova Scotia recovered the cockpit voice recorder from Swissair Flight 111 in about 180 feet of water, not far from where the jet's other "black box," the flight data recorder, was found on Sunday. D12
 
2 Firefighters Suspended
City officials suspended two firefighters without pay, saying they had admitted wearing blackface while riding a float in a parade in Queens. At least one police officer is also facing suspension, officials said. D7
 
A Warning to Accused Officers
A Federal judge warned two police officers accused of brutalizing Abner Louima at a Brooklyn station house in 1997 that there was a risk they might not get the best possible defense if they kept their lawyers because of "actual or potential conflicts of interest" that the lawyers have in the case. D9
 
Expansion of Union Square Park
The city wants to double the size of Union Square Park by turning adjacent pavement into parkland. The plan will be presented to Community Board 5 on Monday evening. D7
 
U.S. Workfare Grant to State
The Federal Government said it was awarding a $96.9 million grant to New York State to help welfare recipients make the transition to regular jobs. D8
 
Bridge Work to Halt Subway
The structural problems that have plagued the Williamsburg Bridge over the years will again inconvenience commuters starting in May, when city transportation officials are to suspend subway service across the bridge for roughly five months for a $150 million repair project. D9
 
ARTS & IDEAS D13-20
 
OBITUARIES A17
 
SPORTS D1-6
 
It's Davenport vs. Hingis
Lindsay Davenport defeated Venus Williams, and Martina Hingis beat Jana Novotna to advance to the final match of the United States Open today. D1
 
Sosa Gets No. 59; Mets Lose
Sammy Sosa of the Chicago Cubs hit his 59th homer in the fifth inning against the Milwaukee Brewers. But the Cubs lost the game, 13-11, and thus remained tied with the Mets in their battle for the National League wild card. The Mets lost to the Montreal Expos, 5-1. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-15
 
A Ford Atop Ford Again
William Clay Ford Jr., 41, a great-grandson of Henry Ford, was named the next chairman of the Ford Motor Company, to succeed Alexander Trotman, who is retiring. C1
 
Markets Bounce Back
The Dow jumped 179.96 points, or 2.4 percent, to 7,795.50. The S.& P. 500 climbed 28.87, or 3 percent, to 1,009.06, while the Nasdaq finished 56.31 points higher, or 3.6 percent, at 1,641.64. The Russell index of 2,000 smaller-company stocks rose 8.65 points, or 2.5 percent, to 353.62, ending a seven-week decline of 25 percent. C1
 
Japanese Recession Deepening
The Japanese Government said the economy contracted in the April-June quarter by an annual rate of 3.3 percent, nearly twice as steep a fall as most economists had expected. C2
 
Support for Banking Overhaul
The Senate Banking Committee approved legislation to let American financial services companies operate globally with far fewer limitations. C1
 
A Bug in U.S.-China Relations
The United States, acting to halt the invasion of an insect pest, said it would ban importation of all Chinese goods shipped in raw wood packing material, a move that is likely to strain China's economy -- as well as United States-China relations. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
Editorials: Shame at the White House; the primary for attorney general; a flawed achievement in Bosnia.
 
Columns: Russell Baker.
 
Bridge D19
 
Weather C14
 
Crossword D19

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); LESOTHO (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CROATIA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (69%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (57%); HAMAS (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); LESOTHO (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CROATIA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (69%); TEXAS, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); HAMAS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); POLITICS (89%); ARMIES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (88%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); CARTELS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); RELIGION (68%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (61%); COCAINE (61%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (58%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



322 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Yeltsin's Choice Easily Ratified; A Shift to Left

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 11

 BODY:
Yevgeny M. Primakov handily won confirmation as Prime Minister from the Russian Parliament today, and signaled a sharp shift toward a more socialist economic model by endorsing two of the Communist Party's hand-picked candidates for top posts.
The appointments -- of a moderate Communist who used to run the Soviet state planning agency and a central banker associated with easy money policies and inflation in the early 1990's -- raised questions about the future of economic reform. 
 Mr. Primakov appeared before Parliament's lower house a day after President Boris N. Yeltsin, capping two and a half weeks of political and economic crisis, named him as a compromise candidate.
After only one day's preparation for a job he said he had not sought, Mr. Primakov's ideas for the economy were necessarily vague.
At Parliament he spoke of bolstering Russian industry, of moving away from a dependency on foreign loans and of giving the Government a larger role in regulating the economy. And he invoked President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal as an example of the measured use of government intervention to rescue a country from economic depression.
"This is not a return to the command and administrative system, no," Mr. Primakov said. "But the state must do this.
"Indeed, it did not occur to anyone to condemn the United States for example, when Roosevelt introduced some elements of state regulation in the economy after the Great Depression. So should we copy the wild capitalism that existed in the past, or should we use the experience accumulated by humankind?"
Mr. Primakov said he would put together a government of "unity" whose first task will be to pull the country out of its deepening social and economic crisis and restore Moscow's dwindling authority over the rest of the country.
"I am not a magician," he said after winning Parliament's approval on a vote of 317 to 63, with 15 abstentions. "Don't expect me to produce any quick fixes."
By appointing Yuri D. Maslyukov, the Communists' leading candidate as Prime Minister, as his top deputy, Mr. Primakov indicated that he had already struck an alliance with Mr. Yeltsin's leftist opposition, which has tried to capitalize on Russia's monthlong crisis to put its people and policies in a new government.
Parliament's lower house today approved a parallel appointment of Viktor V. Gerashchenko as chairman of Russia's central bank, bringing back a Soviet-era banker who in the early 1990's was the nemesis of Mr. Yeltsin's team of Western-style reformers. Mr. Gerashchenko's return, at Mr. Yeltsin's request, was seen by many experts as another important sign that Russia is moving off the path of tight monetary policies, back to an era of free spending and easy credits to rescue failing industries.
Gennadi A. Zyuganov, the Communist Party chief, today all but confirmed that the alliance between Mr. Primakov and the left had been made earlier this week, with Mr. Yeltsin's approval.
"At the closed meeting at the President's office, five candidates were considered," Mr. Zyuganov said in a speech supporting Mr. Primakov's nomination. "The very fact that three of them agreed to work in the same team -- Primakov, Maslyukov and Gerashchenko -- deserves respect."
Mr. Primakov, ever the wily diplomat, today pointedly left the door open for other political parties to join the Government, but gave no word on the fate of the acting Deputy Prime Minister, Boris G. Fyodorov, the only voice for Western-style reform who has remained in power since Mr. Yeltsin began his latest Government shake-up on Aug. 23.
Mr. Fyodorov, who was named this summer as chief of Russia's tax collection service, said today that he would not resign. "Under no circumstances will I go on my own," he told a Russian news agency. "My nerves are pretty strong."
Grigory A. Yavlinsky, head of a liberal opposition party who only on Thursday had hopes of playing a key role in a Primakov government, today took his distance from the new Prime Minister. Mr. Yavlinsky had been the first to publicly float Mr. Primakov's name as a compomise candidate this week, when Russia was headed toward a constitutional confrontation over the nomination of former Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin.
Admitting he had "doubts" about the composition of the Government, Mr. Yavlinsky today issued a thinly veiled warning against the kind of loose money policies that stalled Russia's economic reforms in 1993, when Mr. Gerashchenko was head of the central bank. "We must not allow ruinous printing of money, or the blocking of import duties, or nationalization," he said.
Konstantin Borovoi, an independent member of Parliament, speaking on behalf of five other independent deputies, was even more blunt. "The latest events go to show that this is a collusion, that the President is in cahoots with the Communists, trying to keep his own post by giving up democracy, the path of reforms and the market economy," he said. "This will not work."
This alarmist view echoed dire warnings made on Thursday by Mr. Chernomyrdin, who accused the Communists of trying to stage a "crawling coup," and restore the old Soviet regime and its command economy. But Mr. Primakov today insisted that his coalition Cabinet would be made up of "professionals" who will be required to leave their political agendas at the door.
In a brief television address before Parliament's vote, Mr. Yeltsin urged support for his new Prime Minster whose nomination, he said, had pulled the country back from "the brink of a serious political crisis."
"We have yet to draw the lessons of the present crisis," Mr. Yeltsin said. "In the meantime we must work to overcome it. We must all work in concert."
As the political crisis recedes, Russia's economic crisis moves back to the top of the agenda, and Mr. Primakov's Government will face decisions on a range of issues from the stabilization of the ruble, to the resolution of an endemic banking crisis, to the dismantling of Russia's mountain of internal debt.
Russia has already defaulted on $447 milllion in interest payments due to Germany last month, the first time it has missed its schedule for repaying sovereign loans from other governments. A Finance Ministry spokesman said Russia would fulfill its obligations on the debt, and put the blame for the delay on the deadlock in the Russian banking system, where payments and withdrawals have ground to a halt.
Mr. Maslyukov, a moderate Communist who served as head of the Soviet central planning agency and briefly as Minister for Trade and Industry in Mr. Yeltsin's last Government, is expected to be put in charge of overall economic policy, but whether Mr. Primakov will give him free reign to dictate that policy remains unclear.
During his brief stint in government this summer, Mr. Maslyukov tried to enlarge his staff and widen his sphere of influence to include Russia's mlitary industrial sector -- tactics that come naturally to Soviet-trained bureaucrats.
Mr. Gerashchenko's return to the central bank brings Russia's recent history full circle, back to the days when he and Mr. Fyodorov, then Finance Minister, clashed regularly over monetary policy. In those days, the central bank was a source for cheap credits for Russian industry, a policy that its critics said not only encouraged badly managed factories but also spurred inflation.
In remarks to reporters today, Mr. Gerashchenko, 60, who has been president of International Moscow Bank, said he would react "cautiously" to pleas from his Communist supporters to pump a huge infusion of new rubles into the economy.
Given the depths of Russia's current economic plight, even liberal economists say some printing of new money may be necessary to help the country and its people survive the surge of inflation that followed last month's devaluation of the ruble. Mr. Chernomyrdin, campaigning for the job of Prime Minister last week, said 40 billion new rubles -- or 16 percent of the Russia's current money supply -- are needed to tide the country through the crisis.
In the last week, Mr. Fyodorov has pressed for the creation of a currency board, which would strictly limit the amount of rubles in relation to Russia's reserves of gold and foreign currency. But Mr. Gerashchenko today dismissed the proposal out of hand, calling it foolish for Russia.
Some experts suggested today that Mr. Gershchenko, with his inside knowledge of the workings of Russia's commercial banks, might do a better job than his predecessor at getting control of wayward banks, which had gambled heavily, and lost, on Russia's ill-fated short-term Treasury bills, and risky currency contracts with Western banks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Acting Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov, right, conferred with Yuri Maslyukov, during debates in the Russian Parliament in Moscow yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT (83%); COMMUNIST PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT (83%); COMMUNIST PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (53%); 

PERSON: PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (MIN); GERASHCHENKO, VIKTOR V; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); BOHLEN, CELESTINE YEVGENY M PRIMAKOV (97%); BORIS N YELTSIN (81%); VIKTOR V GERASHCHENKO (68%); GRIGORY A YAVLINSKY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



323 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE POLITICS;
Now, the People Will Have a Chance to Judge

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11

 BODY:
For months, the American people have been mere bystanders as the story of Bill Clinton and Monica S. Lewinsky unfolded.
Now, with the release of Kenneth W. Starr's report, they have assumed a central and conceivably decisive role in the case. The report is in the hands of Congress, to dispose of as Congress sees fit. A political process has begun, and in political processes, as the Founding Fathers foresaw, the people have the ultimate power. 
 It is by no means clear how they will use it, or what the result will be. One prominent Democratic political consultant told his clients this week that he expected Mr. Clinton to be out of the White House within weeks. Only one President in the last 50 years, it is true, has been in trouble this deep, and that one, Richard M. Nixon, was of course forced from office.
But many clear-eyed people still think that Mr. Clinton will hold on.
The fact is, Washington is lost. There is no precedent for the present bizarre spectacle -- lurid tales of sexual high jinks in and near the Oval Office, poker-faced lawyers in serious suits debating the constitutional implications thereof and rowdy legislators trying to behave themselves.
Is it a movie, or a pulp novel, or an adolescent dream about life in the capital? No, it is real life. Or the closest approximation that the Clinton years -- the Harding era restaged for television -- can produce.
Ever since the Whitewater investigation began, and continuing through the revelations about Ms. Lewinsky, the voters have been telling pollsters that they approve of Mr. Clinton's performance as President, however they feel about his behavior or character. Three new polls, conducted over the last two weeks by CBS News, Gallup and the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, found no significant change in that pattern.
The polls were taken before the report was released, of course, and it is possible that Mr. Starr's enumeration of 11 possible grounds for impeachment may change many people's minds. The explicit details of the President's repeated sexual encounters with Ms. Lewinsky -- and especially the fact that they took place near the sanctum sanctorum of American government, the Oval Office, several while he was on the phone with members of Congress -- may have an adverse impact as well.
But no matter how ephemeral and imperfect the polls may be, they suggest that if an election were held tomorrow, and Mr. Clinton were legally eligible to run, he would stand a reasonable chance of winning another term.
Which raises a very leading question: Why would the politicians who sit in the Senate and the House of Representatives want to vote to remove from office a President, twice elected by the people of the United States, whose official conduct has met with such consistent approval from the voters?
They might do so if they felt the political winds shifting enough that doing otherwise could put their own careers in peril. Although it is true that legislators can and often do rise above petty partisanship on great questions of state like war or peace and impeachment, and they may do so this time, it is also true that they are as subject to the instinct of self-preservation as any other human beings.
And there are signs that many Democrats' sensitive noses are already picking up the scent of such climatic change. Many senators and representatives who face close races are publicly denouncing the President, and others have made it clear they would be just as happy if he did not campaign for them.
Equally important, Democrats who are considered custodians of the traditions and values of the Senate -- elders like Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia -- have been among the most outspoken.
Three weeks ago, the independent analyst Charles E. Cook Jr., who probably follows Congressional politics more closely than anyone, said that this fall's election was most likely to produce only modest changes, if any, in the makeup of the two houses. In a new survey distributed today, he said the "mid-range scenario" would show Democratic losses of 6 to 10 seats in the House and 2 to 4 in the Senate, with much larger losses clearly plausible.
The legislators might also turn against the President if they hear from the voters, either directly or indirectly, that they want him called to account. Public backing for the President might be quickly eroded not only by the Starr report but also the faltering economy; one reason many voters have given over the past few years for sticking with Mr. Clinton has been a strong stock market and full employment.
Phone calls, faxes and E-mail messages in the next days will count for a lot.
Every President is weak at the stage Mr. Clinton has reached, with only two years left of his second term. The reformer's zeal is spent, and as political attention slowly turns to the question of a successor, the incumbent's power on Capitol Hill wanes. For Mr. Clinton, the problem is intensified.
Unlike Nixon, who resigned in 1974 rather than face an impeachment trial, Mr. Clinton lacks roots in Congress. He never served there, and he has spent little time cultivating the Democrats upon whom his survival may well depend. Some members are last-ditch loyalists; every single member of the Black Caucus, for example, voted today to give the President a chance to study the Starr report before it was released to the general public.
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader, who could be a pivotal figure, is much less locked in. When he was campaigning four years ago for his present post, he promised to put his colleagues' interests ahead of the President's, and he restated that viewpoint on Thursday.
"I don't see myself as an advocate of the President per se," he told The Wall Street Journal. "I see myself as insuring that the President gets a fair hearing. I draw a very big distinction between the two roles."
The 78-page rebuttal issued by Mr. Clinton's lawyers construed the constitutional language about impeachment as narrowly as possible. That will clearly form one element of his defense. But there is precedent for a broader interpretation as well. During his days in the House, Gerald R. Ford once famously said that an impeachable offense is "whatever a majority of the House of Representatives considers it to be at a given moment of history."
In addition, there is a close parallel, no doubt intentional, between one of the offenses of which the House Judiciary Committee found President Nixon guilty -- failure to "take care that the laws be faithfully executed" -- and one of Mr. Starr's charges -- conduct "inconsistent with the President's constitutional duty to faithfully execute the laws" of the nation.
The other main element of the President's defense is contrition. Almost every public statement in recent days has included a plea for forgiveness. But he has lied and dissembled so often in the past, one of his friends in the Senate said, "that you have to ask yourself which Clinton to believe."
Often, as The Economist said this week, "First apologies are what counts."
Mr. Clinton, it should be emphasized, need not maintain the support of a majority of the House and Senate to survive. In the Senate, a two-thirds majority is required to convict, so he would need only the backing of 34 senators to hang on. In the House, a simple majority would technically suffice to force a Senate trial, but a 225-to-210 vote or anything like it seems an insubstantial, unlikely foundation on which to build a Presidential trial.
Developments now unforeseen could, of course, make things worse for the President -- additional revelations about his conduct or indictments of close aides in the Lewinsky matter, for example. A more heavily Republican Senate could easily be in place for any final vote on impeachment.
Future developments could save him, too -- a foreign policy crisis, perhaps, or a major terrorist attack at home. His lawyers refused today to rule out the possibility of a deal with Congress that would lead to an early censure and head off any more protracted proceeding. Otherwise, the process that began today could last for months, and that is a very long time indeed in politics.
As he weighs his options, again and again, Mr. Clinton will have to ask himself: Survive on what terms, and to what end? He will still have Air Force One and the Marine Band, still meet with Congressional and foreign leaders, still have his political allies, unless he is impeached or resigns. But his moral leadership, that intangible legitimacy that makes a President a force in the country, has been shattered, and reconstituting it, after all that has happened, will be even harder than getting 34 votes in the Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PUBLIC OPINION POLITICS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); IMPEACHMENT (76%); LAWYERS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); APPLE, R W JR; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (92%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



324 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Can Remediation Plan Save CUNY?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
While mayoral appointees on the City University of New York's board of trustees speak about steering students to the overburdened community colleges for remediation, this is just a sham (Editorial Observer, Sept. 7). Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has stated publicly that his next objective is to eliminate remediation there, too. Next step, privatization! 
 These politicians are on a dangerous path. We are witnessing a bankruptcy of constructive ideas and an inability to project the consequences of denying higher education to New Yorkers of modest or no means. New York requires an educated citizenry to flourish. Preventing people from going to school will have deleterious effects on New York and its economy.
 
EDITH B. EVERETT
New York, Sept. 8, 1998
 
The writer is a member of the CUNY board of trustees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; COMMUNITY COLLEGES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); PRIVATIZATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); 

PERSON: EVERETT, EDITH RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1998



325 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 42; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: September 13, 1998

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	4	RAINBOW SIX, by Tom Clancy. (Putnam, $27.95.) John Clark, heading an international task force, investigates terrorist incidents in Switzerland, Germany and Spain.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2		1	TELL ME YOUR DREAMS, by Sidney Sheldon. (Morrow, $26.) Three women suspected of committing brutal murders undergo a bizarre trial with a curious defense.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	11	I KNOW THIS MUCH IS TRUE, by Wally Lamb. (Regan Books/HarperCollins, $27.50.) A troubled man must care for his schizophrenic identical-twin brother.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	2	5	THE FIRST EAGLE, by Tony Hillerman. (HarperCollins, $25.) Navajo police pursue a mysterious killer.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	8	42	MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, by Arthur Golden. (Knopf, $25.) The life of a young woman growing up in Kyoto who has to reinvent herself after World War II begins.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	4	15	SUMMER SISTERS, by Judy Blume. (Delacorte, $21.95.) Two young women from very different backgrounds come of age together on Martha's Vineyard.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	5	8	POINT OF ORIGIN, by Patricia Cornwell. (Putnam, $25.95.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta battles an old enemy, a serial killer who has escaped and is resuming her crimes.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	6	21	MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $20.) After finding a seaborne bottle containing an enigmatic letter, a divorced woman encounters love.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	7	13	BRIDGET JONES'S DIARY, by Helen Fielding. (Viking, $22.95.) A year in the life of a 30-something single woman in London.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10		1	NO SAFE PLACE, by Richard North Patterson. (Knopf, $25.95.) The perils suffered by a senator running for President in the year 2000.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	9	8	A NIGHT WITHOUT ARMOR, by Jewel Kilcher. (HarperCollins, $15.) The singer-songwriter's poems contemplate love, family, Alaska and life on the road. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	11	18	A WIDOW FOR ONE YEAR, by John Irving. (Random House, $27.95.) Three looks at the complex emotional life of a writer and single mother.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	10	11	 * THE KLONE AND I, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $17.95.) A woman believes she has found Mr. Right, a high-tech expert, then is amazed to meet his clone.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	12	3	MOON MUSIC, by Faye Kellerman. (Morrow, $25.50.) Detective Romulus Poe's investigation of a showgirl's murder uncovers much of Las Vegas's sordid past.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15	15	9	LOW COUNTRY, by Anne Rivers Siddons. (HarperCollins, $25.) The husband of a South Carolina woman considers turning the island she inherited into a resort.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 16		1	 *NOW YOU SEE HER, by Linda Howard. (Pocket, $23.) A young painter's life takes a strange turn.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	2	3	THE DAY DIANA DIED, by Christopher Andersen. (Morrow, $27.) An account of the events surrounding the death of the Princess of Wales.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	1	47	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Doubleday, $19.95.) A sportswriter tells of his weekly visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	13	A PIRATE LOOKS AT FIFTY, by Jimmy Buffett. (Random House, $24.95.) The singer-songwriter reflects on his half-century of life.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	6	86	THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR, by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko. (Longstreet, $22.) An analysis of the lives of wealthy Americans. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	5	14	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $25.) A journalist finds beauty and humor while hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6		1	THE DEATH OF OUTRAGE, by William J. Bennett. (Free Press, $20.) A former Secretary of Education takes a critical view of the Clinton Presidency. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	4	104	ANGELA'S ASHES, by Frank McCourt. (Scribner, $25.) The author's childhood amid the miseries of Limerick.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	11	91	CONVERSATIONS WITH GOD: Book 1, by Neale Donald Walsch. (Putnam, $19.95.) The author addresses questions of good and evil, guilt and sin.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	8	13	A MONK SWIMMING, by Malachy McCourt. (Hyperion, $23.95.) The writer and actor (and brother of Frank McCourt) remembers his life in America and Ireland.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	7	24	CITIZEN SOLDIERS, by Stephen E. Ambrose. (Simon & Schuster, $27.50.) The United States Army from Normandy to the Bulge to Germany's surrender.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	10	22	THE GIFTS OF THE JEWS, by Thomas Cahill. (Talese/ Doubleday, $23.50.) What Western civilization owes an ancient nomadic tribe.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	9	19	WE ARE OUR MOTHERS' DAUGHTERS, by Cokie Roberts. (Morrow, $19.95.) The television news anchor's reflections on mothers, wives, sisters and friends.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	12	15	TITAN, by Ron Chernow. (Random House, $30.) The life of John D. Rockefeller Sr.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14		1	DIANA: Portrait of a Princess, by Jayne Fincher and Judy Wade. (Callaway/Simon & Schuster, $35.) More than 500 photos of the late Princess of Wales.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15	13	56	 *THE MAN WHO LISTENS TO HORSES, by Monty Roberts. (Random House, $23.) The memoirs of a professional horse trainer.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 16	15	2	 *THE ROARING 2000s, by Harry S. Dent Jr. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) An economist discusses the prospects for the upcoming millennium. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	18	SUGAR BUSTERS! by H. Leighton Steward et al. (Ballantine, $22.) A diet designed for losing weight, increasing energy and combating disease. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	23	THE 9 STEPS TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM, by Suze Orman. (Crown, $23.) Practical and spiritual steps for managing your money. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	234	MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS, by John Gray. (HarperCollins, $25.) Improving communication and relationships. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4		6	EAT RIGHT 4 YOUR TYPE, by Peter J. D'Adamo with Catherine Whitney. (Putnam, $22.95.) Diets to suit each of the four blood types. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Aug. 29, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
And Bear in Mind
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
ACHESON: The Secretary of State Who Created the American World, by James Chace. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) An engrossing biography of a public servant whose vision, self-confidence and personal integrity are still enshrined in international institutions and American attitudes.
 
DEATH IN SUMMER, by William Trevor. (Viking, $23.95.) The child of a man who has never known love is abducted by a woman who longs for love with something like madness in this novel by an author expert in malformations of the heart.
 
AN EMPIRE WILDERNESS: Travels Into America's Future, by Robert D. Kaplan. (Random House, $27.50.) A journalist traverses the West and foresees an America of corporate fortresses, guarded housing developments, increased auto dependence; he finds it "not so bleak." Thanks.
 
KAATERSKILL FALLS, by Allegra Goodman. (Dial, $23.95.) Little actually happens in this first novel, but the author discovers form and sensibility in the small excitements and grand rhythms of life in an Orthodox Jewish community.
 
LASSO THE WIND: Away to the New West, by Timothy Egan. (Knopf, $25.) Less an inquiry than a didactic tour, this heartfelt jeremiad by a national correspondent for The Times rages against dam builders, big ranchers, real estaters and the dead-hand legend of the Old West, with its chronicle of macho grabbing by the first comers.
 
MACKEREL BY MOONLIGHT, by William F. Weld. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A political novel and a suspense novel (same novel) by the former Governor of Massachusetts that profits by formidable skill in deft and devious storytelling.
 
RULES OF THE WILD, by Francesca Marciano. (Pantheon, $23.) An impressive first novel whose heroine, a European come to Kenya for salvation, encounters instead a poisonous love affair and an incestuous community of competitive expatriates.
 
SALT WATER, by Charles Simmons. (Chronicle, $19.95.) A delicate, elegiac, regretful novel, by a former editor of this Book Review, in which boy meets girl and dad steals girl on an island off New England in the last enchanted summer of 1963.
 
THE SEEKERS: The Story of Man's Continuing Quest to Understand His World, by Daniel J. Boorstin. (Random House, $25.95.) A synoptic overview of the history of Western religion and philosophy that reminds us what history on the grand narrative scale looks like, by a former Librarian of Congress and formidable scholar, who has won most of the prizes historians can get.
 
THE TENNIS PARTNER: A Doctor's Story of Friendship and Loss, by Abraham Verghese. (HarperCollins, $25.) A wise, lyrical, controlled narrative about tennis, medicine and friendship and their spiritual costs and benefits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (90%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: RANDOM HOUSE ENTERTAINMENT (67%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (90%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WOMEN (89%); WRITERS (77%); HOMICIDE (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (74%); WORLD WAR II (66%); SONG WRITING (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); TERRORISM (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%); MURDER (57%); 

PERSON: SIDNEY SHELDON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



326 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 77; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 5380 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/FILM;
THE ANNOTATED LISTINGS

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
What follows is a selective list; all opening dates are for New York and are subject to change.
 
September
 
PERMANENT MIDNIGHT -- The sitcom writer Jerry Stahl's harrowing autobiography is one of the most candid (and darkly funny) memoirs of heroin addiction ever written. Its screen adaptation, directed by David Veloz, stars Ben Stiller as Mr. Stahl. Elizabeth Hurley is his ex-wife, Janeane Garofalo his agent and Maria Bello his new love. Wednesday. 

ONE TRUE THING -- A high-powered New York magazine journalist (Renee Zellweger) moves back in with her parents (Meryl Streep and William Hurt) to help care for her dying mother. Adapted from Anna Quindlen's best-selling novel and directed by Carl Franklin ("Devil in a Blue Dress"), it aspires to be an East Coast yuppie "Terms of Endearment," with restrained three-hankie performances from Ms. Streep and Ms. Zellweger. Friday.
RUSH HOUR -- Jackie Chan teams up with the comedian Chris Tucker (playing a rogue Los Angeles cop) to solve a kidnapping and avert an international crisis. Friday.
ESMERALDA COMES BY NIGHT The comic title character is a nurse with five husbands. Friday.
A SOLDIER'S DAUGHTER NEVER CRIES -- This Merchant-Ivory film, adapted from an autobiographical novel by Kaylie Jones, daughter of the novelist James Jones, is similar in spirit to the team's 1990 gem "Mr. and Mrs. Bridge." Divided into chapters, it depicts the author's family in Paris in the 1960's, then follows it back to the United States, where the children (Leelee Sobieski and Jesse Bradford) have difficulty adjusting to American teen-age life. Kris Kristofferson plays Bill Willis, the character based on Jones, and Barbara Hershey is his wife. Friday.
SHADRACH -- A middle-class boy (Scott Terra) growing up in Virginia during the Depression learns about life from his impoverished neighbors (Harvey Keitel and Andie MacDowell) and a 99-year-old former slave (John Franklin Sawyer) who returns from Alabama to die where he was born. Adapted from a William Styron short story by Susanna Styron, the author's daughter, and Bridget Terry; directed by Ms. Styron. Sept. 23.
THE LAST BIG THING -- Dan Zukovic wrote, directed and stars in a satire about the cult of celebrity and trash culture. As the editor of a nonexistent Los Angeles magazine, he conducts bogus interviews with a slew of second-rate actors, musicians and comedians. Sept. 23.
THE BRANDON TEENA STORY -- This true story about a young Nebraskan who was raped and murdered in 1993 after being revealed to be a woman won the best documentary prize at the Berlin Film Festival. Sept. 23.
PECKER -- In John Waters's latest camp frolic, Edward Furlong is a happy-go-lucky 18-year-old Baltimore sandwich-shop worker and amateur photographer whose candid snapshots of friends and family make him an art-world sensation. The movie's many oddball characters include his girlfriend (Christina Ricci), who runs a laundromat; his grandmother (Jean Schertler), who has conversations with a statue of the Virgin Mary, and an older sister (Martha Plimpton) who works in a gay strip joint. Sept. 25.
MONUMENT AVENUE --Ted Demme directed and Denis Leary and Ian Hart star in a violent drama about an Irish-American crime ring in Boston's Charlestown section. Sept. 25.
CLAY PIGEONS -- The dark comedy stars Joaquin Phoenix as a Montana gas-station attendant suspected of being a serial killer. With Vince Vaughn and Janeane Garofalo as an F.B.I. agent. Sept. 25.
LOLITA -- After much controversy, Adrian Lynes's film of the Nabokov classic finally makes it into theaters. Although it has its gauzy television-commercial moments, on the whole, it is remarkably faithful to the novel. Jeremy Irons's Humbert Humbert is the epitome of a doomed obsessional romantic, ravaged by desire, and Dominique's Swain's Lolita is even more impressive: a perfect hybrid of seductive scamp and wounded innocent. Sept. 25
RONIN -- This trickily plotted action thriller follows a bunch of former cold war spies through the streets of Paris in a desperate chase for a suitcase. John Frankenheimer directed. With Robert De Niro, Stellan Skarsgard and Jonathan Pryce. Sept. 25.
HIT ME -- In this film noir adapted from a Jim Thompson novel, a lonely bellhop's infatuation with a femme fatale means danger. With Elias Koteas and Laure Marsac. Sept. 25.
AFRICA'S ELEPHANT KINGDOM -- An IMAX spectacular about an elephant herd fleeing a drought. Sept. 26.
 
October
 
WELCOME TO WOOP WOOP -- Stephan Elliott ("Priscilla, Queen of the Desert") directed this camp comedy starring Johnathon Schaech as a New York con man who flees to Australia, where he is held prisoner in a nutty outback town whose boss decrees that no one can leave and that the local movie theater must show only Rodgers and Hammerstein musicals. October.
THE EXTREME ADVENTURES OF SUPER DAVE -- With Bob Einstein, Gia Carides and Don Lake. The legendary comic stuntman Super Dave Osborne comes out of retirement for one last time, to raise money for charity. Early October.
THE SWINDLE -- Claude Chabrol's comedy thriller stars Isabelle Huppert and Michel Serrault as con artists caught up in an international scandal. October.
LA SEPARATION -- In a psychological drama from France, Isabelle Huppert and Daniel Auteuil are a couple whose marriage disintegrates. Directed by Christian Vincent. Oct. 2.
BIKER DREAMS -- Adam Berman's documentary tells the history of Harley-Davidson motorcycles. Oct. 2.
ANTZ -- In the animation wars, Dreamworks' insect movie is beating Disney's ("A Bug's Life") to market. This entomological fantasy features a lowly worker ant named Z (the voice of Woody Allen), who is determined to win the love of the beautiful Princess Bala (Sharon Stone) and enlists his best friend (Sylvester Stallone) in his campaign. Oct. 2.
DEE SNIDER'S STRANGE LAND -- Twisted Sister's lead singer is a maniac who meets his victims in an on-line chat room. Horror. Oct. 2.
A NIGHT AT THE ROXBURY -- Another "Saturday Night Live" spinoff. The world's uncoolest party animals, Steve (Will Ferrell) and Doug (Chris Kattan) Butabi, find themselves in the hippest of all Los Angeles nightclubs, the Roxbury. Oct. 2.
WHAT DREAMS MAY COME -- After Robin Williams dies in a car crash and goes to heaven, his wife (Annabella Sciorra) commits suicide and goes to hell. Cuba Gooding Jr. is the angel who helps him find her. Adapted from a novel by Richard Matheson, it all sounds terribly icky, but then so did the plots of such inspirational crowd-pleasers as "Ghost" and "City of Angels." Oct. 2.
SLAM -- Winner of the grand jury prize at Sundance, where it was a big crowd pleaser, this is the story of a Washington rapper and poet (Saul Williams) who is arrested on a petty drug charge and sent to prison, where he is saved by an inspirational writing teacher (Sonja Sohn). Likely to give a major lift to the poetry slam, that competitive hybrid of standup comedy, rap, performance art and literature that has developed into a national movement. Oct. 7.
HOLY MAN -- Will Eddie Murphy continue the winning streak of "The Nutty Professor" and "Dr. Dolittle"? Here, he is a televangelist hired by the money-losing Good Buy Shopping Network to hawk the most outlandish assortment of gimmicky doodads, and ratings skyrocket. With Jeff Goldblum as the manager of the network. Oct. 9.
SIX-STRING SAMURAI -- A post-apocalyptic rock-and-roll fantasy set in Las Vegas. Oct. 9.
THE IMPOSTORS -- Stanley Tucci directed and stars with Oliver Platt in a comedy about two actors who stow away on a cruise ship. Oct. 9.
ONE TOUGH COP -- This crime drama based on the autobiography of the former New York police officer Bo Dietl (Stephen Baldwin) explores a heinous 1981 crime and a policeman's conflicting loyalties. With Chris Penn, Gina Gershon and Michael McGlone. Oct. 9.
DETROIT 9000 -- A re-release of the well-regarded 1972 blaxploitation film starring Alex Rocco and Hari Rhodes. Oct. 9.
PRACTICAL MAGIC -- Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are witches afflicted with a family curse: any man who falls in love with them will die young. The sisters live with two eccentric aunts (Dianne Wiest and Stockard Channing). Trouble arrives when the more reckless of the sisters falls in love with a violent drifter (Goran Visnjic). Griffin Dunne directed. Oct. 9.
T-REX: BACK TO THE CRETACEOUS -- An IMAX trip back to the age of dinosaurs. Oct. 9.
THE CELEBRATION -- In this black comedy, which won the special jury prize at Cannes, a prosperous Danish family gathers to celebrate its patriarch's 60th birthday. As his three grown children tear at one another, the other guests are exposed to some ugly family secrets. Oct. 9.
THE INHERITORS -- A misanthropic Austrian farmer in the 1930's dies, bequeathing his estate to seven peasants. Oct. 9.
THE MIGHTY -- Two adolescent outcasts -- one big, gawky and slow in school (Elden Henson), the other a tiny scientific genius in leg braces (Kieran Culkin) -- form an unlikely alliance to perform heroic deeds worthy of King Arthur's court. Sharon Stone is the mother of the genius. Oct. 16.
RUDOLPH -- This animated story of Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer features the voices of John Goodman, Eric Idle, Bob Newhart, Debbie Reynolds, Richard Simmons and Whoopi Goldberg. Oct. 16.
THE ALARMIST -- A naive door-to-door peddler of home-security devices (David Arquette) learns about the dark side of salesmanship from his unscrupulous boss (Stanley Tucci). Based on Keith Reddin's play "Life During Wartime." Oct. 16.
BELOVED -- Directed by Jonathan Demme, with a cast headed by Oprah Winfrey and Danny Glover, the screen adaptation of the Toni Morrison novel is this season's ne plus ultra of high-minded literary adaptations. In the first movie in which she has received top billing, Ms. Winfrey plays a former slave in Ohio who is literally haunted by the child she murdered. Oct. 16.
BRIDE OF CHUCKY -- The fourth installment of the "Child's Play" horror series stars Jennifer Tilly and Brad Dourif. Oct. 16.
APT PUPIL -- When a high-school student (Brad Renfro) discovers that a Nazi war criminal (Ian McKellen) has been secretly living in his hometown, he blackmails him into describing the atrocities he committed. Based on a Stephen King novella. Oct. 16.
HAPPINESS -- A pitch-black comic satire by Todd Solondz about the search for personal happiness in a New Jersey suburb finds only boredom, depression, vicious sibling rivalry, soul-deadening work, despair, suicide, murder and pedophilia under the bland, chirpy surface of its characters' lives. The scenes involving a pedophilic psychiatrist (Dylan Baker) with a picture-perfect "Leave It to Beaver" family don't just push the envelope; they rip it open. Oct. 16.
HOME FRIES -- Drew Barrymore is a small-town girl who is pregnant by a man whose whose dead body has been found in a field and who turns out to have been married. Catherine O'Hara is the dead man's scheming widow and Luke Wilson her son from a previous marriage, who falls in love with Ms. Barrymore. A dark romantic comedy. Oct. 23.
ORGAZMO -- A hunky but pious Mormon has a secret life as pornography superhero. Everything is fine until his fiancee finds out. Directed by Trey Parker, a creator of the television series "South Park." Oct. 23.THE CRUISE -- Documentary about New York City observed through the eyes of an eccentric tour-bus guide. Oct. 23.
PLEASANTVILLE -- Two contemporary teen-agers enter the squeaky-clean world of a black-and-white 50's sitcom and teach the innocent cardboard 50's characters about sex and rock-and-roll. As the townspeople learn to feel, they change from black and white into color. More delicate and moodier than "The Truman Show," which it resembles. With Tobey Maguire, Jeff Daniels, Reese Witherspoon and Joan Allen as an ideal, quintessentially repressed 50's housewife. Oct. 23.
LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL -- The Italian comic star Robert Benigni takes on Hitler and the Holocaust in a Chaplinesque serio-comedy that begins lightly, then acquires deepening layers of pathos when a childlike clown played by Mr. Benigni is deported to a concentration camp with his wife and young son. To shield his son from the reality of what's happening, he convinces the boy that it's only a game and goes to great lengths to explain the surrounding horrors. Winner of the grand jury prize at the Cannes Film Festival. Oct. 23.
SOLDIER -- Kurt Russell and Jason Scott Lee star in an action-adventure space western directed by Paul Anderson ("Mortal Kombat"). Oct. 23.
THE LAST DAYS -- James Moll's film examines the lives of five Hungarian survivors of the Holocaust. Even when facing imminent defeat, Hitler brought the Holocaust to Hungary, which then had the largest remaining Jewish population. In just 60 days, 425,000 Hungarian Jews were deported and killed. Oct. 23.
RAZOR BLADE SMILE -- Campy vampiric horror. Oct. 24.
AMERICAN HISTORY X -- Edward Norton is a former skinhead who wants to turn his brother (Edward Furlong) away from a life of bigotry and hate. Directed by Tony Kaye. Oct. 30.
TALK OF ANGELS -- Based on a novel by Kate O'Brien, this romantic drama set on the eve of the Spanish Civil War stars Polly Walker as an Irish convent girl who takes a job as a governess in Spain. She falls in love with her employers' married, politically radical son (Vincent Perez). Oct. 30.
LIVING OUT LOUD -- Holly Hunter is a lonely Park Avenue divorcee and Danny DeVito an elevator operator with whom she develops a friendship that leans toward romance. With Queen Latifah, who displays a fine torch-singing voice. Richard LaGravenese wrote and directed. Oct. 30.
A LITTLE BIT OF SOUL -- Australian medical researchers financed by a powerful mystery man look for anti-aging formula. With Geoffrey Rush and Frances O'Connor. Oct. 30.
JOHN CARPENTER'S VAMPIRES -- The horror director takes on vampires in a story (based on a novel by John Steakley) that sends a vampire hunter portrayed by James Woods into the desert on a mission of destruction. Oct. 30.
 
November
 
A SIMPLE PLAN -- The discovery of $4 million in cash at the site of a crashed airplane changes the quiet lives of the rural people who find it. With Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton and Bridget Fonda. November.
SHATTERED IMAGE -- Another surreal psychological thriller by the art-film director Raoul Ruiz. November.
A LETTER FROM DEATH ROW -- A suspense thriller written, directed and scored by Bret Michaels, lead singer of the rock band Poison. November.
DRY CLEANING -- Anne Fontaine directed this disturbing French film about owners of dry-cleaning establishment whose lives are transformed after they watch a brother-and-sister transvestite act at a gay bar in their sedate hometown. They decide to experiment sexually and adopt the androgynously seductive brother (Stanislas Merhar) as a surrogate son, an employee and a lover. Reminiscent of Joseph Losey's "The Servant." November.
SUE -- A young New York woman (Anna Thomson) loses her secretarial job and her apartment and moves into a seedy hotel. Directed by Amos Kollek. November.
PORT DJEMA -- Eric Heumann won the best-director prize at the Berlin Film Festival for this drama set in an imaginary East African country that is visited by a Parisian surgeon in search of a lost child. November.
BELLY -- The rap lyricist Nas and the rap star DMX play childhood friends with clashing goals. Nov. 4.
GODS AND MONSTERS -- Acclaimed at Sundance, this adaptation of Christopher Bram's novel "Father of Frankenstein" is a fictionalized account of the last days of the openly gay James Whale, who directed the horror classic "Bride of Frankenstein." Ian McKellen is Whale, Lynn Redgrave his housekeeper and Brendan Fraser a young man on whom he develops a fixation. Nov. 4.
RIVER RED -- An abusive father, a parricide and a chain of consequences, set in rural New Hampshire. With Tom Everett Scott and David Moscow. Nov. 6.
THE BIG CHILL -- Re-release of the hit 1983 film about a reunion of 60's idealists. Nov. 6.
ELIZABETH -- This elegant 16th-century costume drama re-tells the story of the brilliant and politically canny English ruler who was crowned at the age of 25. Cate Blanchett stars. With Geoffrey Rush, Kathy Burke, Joseph Fiennes, Richard Attenborough, Christopher Eccleston and John Gielgud. Nov. 6.
THE WATERBOY -- Adam Sandler is a former water boy who wins a college athletic scholarship and wreaks comic havoc in and out of the classroom. Nov. 6.
I'LL BE HOME FOR CHRISTMAS -- Jonathan Taylor Thomas finds himself stranded in the desert in a Santa suit. He hitchhikes home. Nov. 6.
WAKING NED DEVINE -- A comic fable set in an impoverished Irish village, one of whose residents wins a lottery. With Ian Bannen and David Kelly. Nov. 6.
VELVET GOLDMINE -- A rock-and-roll fantasy that borrows its style from Fassbinder and its story from "Citizen Kane," this film is a fictionalized history of 1970's glam rock by the gifted director Todd Haynes ("Safe"). The central figure is a bisexual, David Bowie-like superstar (Jonathan Rhys Meyers) whose career plummets after he fakes his own assassination onstage. Ewan McGregor is his Iggy Pop-like cohort. Nov. 6.
JACK FROST -- A year after the title character (Michael Keaton), a musician on the verge of stardom, dies in a car crash, he returns to earth as a snowman built by his young son Charlie (Joseph Cross). Nov. 6.
THE SIEGE -- Bruce Willis is a United States Army general in a political thriller about terrorism on the streets of New York and a declaration of martial law. With Denzel Washington and Annette Bening. Nov. 6.
CELEBRITY -- No one knows better than Woody Allen the rewards and punishments of fame. And no one is better equipped to find new levels of humor in its pleasures and frustrations. The surest sign that the movie might be a high-water mark in Mr. Allen's career is its selection as the New York Film Festival's opening-night movie. The cast includes Kenneth Branagh, Judy Davis, Leonardo DiCaprio, Melanie Griffith, Joe Mantegna and Winona Ryder. Nov. 13.
DANCING AT LUGHNASA -- This adaptation of the Brian Friel play contemplates the unraveling of a tightly knit Irish Catholic family that includes five unmarried sisters (and the illegitimate son of one of them). The tensions escalate when their only brother (Michael Gambon), who has been doing missionary work in Africa, returns to the fold during an annual festival that's linked to a pagan deity (the year is 1936). With Meryl Streep, Brid Brennan, Catherine McCormack, Sophie Thompson and Kathy Burke. Nov. 13.
MEET JOE BLACK -- Reputed to be the most expensive romantic drama ever filmed, this supernatural romance updates the 1930's Hollywood classic "Death Takes a Holiday," starring Frederic March. Death assumes the form of a recently killed young man (Brad Pitt) to find out why he scares people, and discovers the joys of life and love (with Claire Forlani). Anthony Hopkins is his sweetheart's businessman father. The "Touched by an Angel" syndrome strikes again. Martin Brest ("Scent of a Woman") directed. Nov. 13.
A BUG'S LIFE -- With Pixar animation, the Disney movie further extends the animation technology of "Toy Story." A misfit ant tries to save his colony from a gang of evil grasshoppers, but his ineffectual troops turn out to be the motley refugees of a flea circus in need of mobilization. John Lasseter ("Toy Story") directed with Andrew Stanton. Many celebrity voices. Nov. 20.
THE RUGRATS MOVIE -- A Pickles family adventure spun off from the popular series on the Nickelodeon cable network. Nov. 20.
BLOOD, GUTS, BULLETS
AND OCTANE -- Word of mouth on John Carnahan's no-budget road movie is enthusiastic. Nov. 20
CENTRAL STATION -- A young boy (Vinicius de Oliveira) whose mother is killed in front of Rio de Janeiro's Central Station is befriended by a former schoolteacher (Fernanda Montenegro), who returns him to his father in northeastern Brazil. During the rugged journey, their distaste for each other melts into love. Winner of the best film award at the Berlin festival. Nov. 20.
SAVIOR -- In this antiwar drama, Dennis Quaid plays an American mercenary fighting in Serbia who saves the life of an orphaned newborn baby. With Nastassja Kinski and Stellan Skarsgard. Nov. 20.
I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER -- Mayhem begins in the sequel to last year's teen horror blockbuster when Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) and three friends visit the Bahamas on an all-expenses-paid trip. Nov. 20.
AT FIRST SIGHT -- Irwin Winkler directed the romantic drama based on a true story about a New York City architect (Mira Sorvino) who falls in love with a blind masseur (Val Kilmer) and persuades him to undergo experimental surgery that will restore his sight. The surgery succeeds but. . . . Nov. 20.
VERY BAD THINGS -- The directorial debut of the "Chicago Hope" actor Peter Berg is a savage comedy about a bachelor party in Las Vegas that takes a deadly turn when a prostitute is accidentally killed during sex. The paranoia, deception and violence escalate, turning buddies against one another. A scathing satire on male bonding, sibling rivalry and empty suburban values. Cameron Diaz is a selfish bride who won't let anything stand in the way of her wedding, and Christian Slater a demonic real-estate salesman with a solution for every problem. Nov. 25.
BABE: PIG IN THE CITY -- The sheep-herding Australian porker who seduced the world three years ago is back, this time oinking into the city to try to bail out Boss Hoggett's debt-ridden farm. Nov. 25.
ENEMY OF THE STATE -- Will Smith and Gene Hackman star in a Jerry Bruckheimer-produced drama about a rising young lawyer whose career is derailed when he is framed for murder by a corrupt intelligence official. Nov. 25.
 
December
 
SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE -- The young William Shakespeare (Joseph Fiennes), suffering from writer's block in the middle of creating an early play, falls madly in love with Viola (Gwyneth Paltrow), an aspiring performer who disguises herself as a man to audition. Out of his sudden passion comes "Romeo and Juliet." Tom Stoppard wrote the screenplay with Marc Norman. With Colin Firth, Ben Affleck and Judi Dench. Dec. 4.
PSYCHO -- Why would the hot director Gus Van Sant ("Good Will Hunting") want to remake Alfred Hitchcock's kinky horror classic, especially when the new version uses Joseph Stefano's original screenplay and Bernard Herrmann's score (dressed up by Danny Elfman)? Why should he choose the beefy Vince Vaughn to fill spindly Tony Perkins's quivering shoes? There must be a reason. With Anne Heche in the shower. Dec. 4.
STAR TREK: INSURRECTION -- Traveling to a planet that is a fountain of youth, Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) stumbles into an intergalactic conspiracy. The ninth film in the "Star Trek" series should be a hit just like its predecessors. Dec. 11.
LITTLE VOICE -- In a town in northern England, a reclusive young woman (Jane Horrocks) who barely speaks has developed the uncanny ability to reproduce the recorded sounds of vintage pop singers. She finds her soul mate in an equally shy telephone engineer (Ewan McGregor). When her sister (Brenda Blethyn) and a sleazy local talent agent (Michael Caine) decide they can make millions on her gift, she reluctantly decides to go public. Dec. 11.
THE GENERAL -- John Boorman directed this biographical drama about the notorious Irish gangster Martin Cahill (Brendan Gleeson), who was shot dead by the Irish Republican Army on the eve of the 1994 cease-fire. Dec. 18.
MIGHTY JOE YOUNG -- Another mega-beast is resuscitated from Hollywood's B-movie past to go on a rampage, this time through the streets of Los Angeles. With Bill Paxton and Charlize Theron. Dec. 18.
PRINCE OF EGYPT -- Much is riding on the fortunes of Dreamworks' Christmas entry into the animation sweepstakes. The sweeping family-style epic tells the story of Moses (voice of Val Kilmer) and Ramses (Ralph Fiennes). Stephen Schwartz ("Pocahontas") wrote its six songs. Other voices include Sandra Bullock, Danny Glover, Jeff Goldblum, Steve Martin, Helen Mirren, Michelle Pfeiffer, Martin Short and Patrick Stewart. Dec. 18.
DANCING ABOUT ARCHITECTURE -- An all-star cast portrays a cross-section of Los Angelenos observed in various stages of romantic entanglement. With Gillian Anderson, Ellen Burstyn, Sean Connery, Anthony Edwards, Angelina Jolie, Jay Mohr, Ryan Phillippe, Dennis Quaid, Gena Rowlands, Jon Stewart and Madeleine Stowe. Directed by Willard Carroll. Dec. 18.
YOU'VE GOT MAIL -- "Sleepless in Seattle" redux. Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan unite again under the directorial baton of Nora Ephron, but this time they're in New York. He owns a bookstore super-chain and she runs a small children's bookstore his behemoth wants to devour. Naturally, when they meet anonymously in cyberspace, they fall in love. Expect charm, but not much depth. Dec. 18.
AFFLICTION -- Paul Schrader's powerful film is an uncompromising adaptation of a bleak Russell Banks novel set in an economically depressed town in northern New Hampshire. As a police officer (Nick Nolte) copes with grave domestic problems, he becomes increasingly unstrung, venting years of pent-up anger at his abusive father (James Coburn). The movie is cast in a dark-blue winter light, and the performances by Mr. Nolte, Sissy Spacek and Mary Beth Hurt go for the jugular. Dec. 20.
PATCH ADAMS -- Robin Williams's title character is a former mental patient who discovers the healing power of humor and brings his theories to medical school, where he plays the class clown. Dec. 25.
THE WIZARD OF OZ -- The theatrical re-release of the 1939 family classic starring Judy Garland, enhanced with digitally restored and re-mastered sound and other technical improvements. Dec. 25.
THE FACULTY -- "Clueless" meets "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" in this special-effects-laden science-fiction horror film; from a screenplay by Kevin Williamson, who wrote "Scream" and "Scream 2." With Elijah Wood, Laura Harris and Josh Harnett. Dec. 25.
HURLYBURLY -- David Rabe's powerful satiric evisceration of ranting, cocaine-fueled Hollywood machismo was an off-Broadway hit in 1984. Now it's a movie with Sean Penn, Kevin Spacey, Meg Ryan, Garry Shandling, Chazz Palminteri, Anna Paquin and Robin Wright Penn. The epithets fly fast and furious. Dec. 25.
A CIVIL ACTION -- John Travolta stars in this drama based on Jonathan Harr's best-selling nonfiction account of a lawyer, Jan Sclichtmann, who spent nearly a decade fighting two corporations he believed responsible for toxic pollution that affected eight families in a Boston suburb. Directed by Steven Zaillian. With Robert Duvall, Kathleen Quinlan and Kathy Bates. Dec. 25.
THE THIN RED LINE -- World War II strikes again, this time from the pen of James Jones (it's an adaptation of his 1962 novel) by way of Terrence Malick, the esteemed director ("Badlands," "Days of Heaven") who is emerging from two decades of retirement. But will the 1942 Battle of Guadalcanal play as well as the D-Day invasion did in Steven Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan"? With Sean Penn, John Cusack, Adrien Brody, Jim Caviezel, Ben Chaplin, Elias Koteas, Dash Minok, Nick Nolte, Bill Pullman, Larry Romano and John Travolta. Dec. 25.
THEORY OF FLIGHT -- Kenneth Branagh is a frustrated artist who has a run-in with the law and is sentenced to perform 120 hours of community service. Helena Bonham Carter is the crusty wheelchair-bound caretaker of the establishment to which he is directed. Dec. 25.
DOWN IN THE DELTA -- The directorial debut of the poet Maya Angelou tells the story of Rosa Lynn (Mary Alice), a grandmother who pawns a valuable heirloom to move the family from the mean streets of Chicago back to the ancestral home in the Mississippi Delta. Alfre Woodard is her troubled daughter and Mpho Koaho and Kulani Hassen her grandchildren.With Al Freeman Jr., Esther Rolle, Loretta Devine and Wesley Snipes. Dec. 25.
STEPMOM -- When it comes to high-toned suds, this serious comedy has the field pretty much to itself. Susan Sarandon is a divorced wife who loathes her husband's new girlfriend (Julia Roberts) but turns to her for help when illness strikes. The cat fights turn into a weepy love-in. No one can beat Ms. Sarandon in projecting nobility, and both stars have those larger-than-life dreamy eyes you can get lost in. Dec. 25.
HILLARY AND JACKIE -- In this harsh psychological drama based on real people, Emily Watson ("Breaking the Waves") is the famous cellist Jacqueline du Pre and Rachel Griffiths the estranged sister with whom she reconciles after developing a disabling illness. Expect a mininum of disease-of-the-week sentimentality and a maximum of venomous sibling conflict. Late December.
Early 1999 and Beyond --
THE ASTRONAUT'S WIFE -- With Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron. Directed by Rand Ravich. No matter what, the chameleonlike Mr. Depp will stretch his formidable talents. March 12.
AUSTIN POWERS II -- With Mike Myers and Heather Graham. Diehard 60's swingers never die, they just get nuttier. And that's groovy. June 11.
BLAST FROM THE PAST -- Future shock. Brendan Fraser plays a man reared in a bomb shelter who emerges after 30 years to search for a wife and discovers a world that has changed so much, it is almost unrecognizable. With Alicia Silverstone, Sissy Spacek and Christopher Walken. Feb. 12.
CONDO PAINTING -- A portrait of the New York artist George Condo includes the last recorded interviews with the Beat legends William Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg.
THE DEEP END OF THE OCEAN -- With Michelle Pfeiffer, Treat Williams, Whoopi Goldberg and Lucinda Jenney. Directed by Ulu Grosbard. Feb.22.
THE DREAM LIFE OF ANGELS -- The movie for which Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier shared the best-actress award at Cannes, it explores the deepening bond between two women of opposite temperament and background. Ms. Bouchez is an exuberant vagabond, and Ms. Regnier a moody introvert The directorial debut of Erick Zonca.
ED TV -- Romantic comedy directed by Ron Howard about a man who unknowingly lets his life be chronicled on live television. With Matthew McConaughey, Jenna Elfman, Ellen DeGeneres, Woody Harrelson, Elizabeth Hurley, Sally Kirkland and Martin Landau. "The Truman Show" redux? March 19.
8MM -- With Nicolas Cage, Joaquin Phoenix and Catherine Keener. Directed by Joel Schumacher.
EYES WIDE SHUT -- At last the years-in-the-making top-secret Stanley Kubrick-directed psychological drama starring Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman.
THE FOOL ON THE HILL -- With Jim Carrey. The title says it all.
GLORIA -- With Sharon Stone, Gena Rowlands and George C. Scott. Directed by Sidney Lumet.
A HARD DAY'S NIGHT -- Re-release of the Beatles' 1964 screen debut, with restored scenes. March.
MOD SQUAD -- Another television golden oldie finds new life in the movies. With Claire Danes, Josh Brolin and Giovanni Ribisi. March.
STAR WARS EPISODE ONE -- With Liam Neeson, Natalie Portman and Ewan McGregor. Directed by George Lucas. The prequel to the "Star Wars" trilogy is a guaranteed blockbuster. May 21.
IN DREAMS -- With Annette Bening, Aidan Quinn and Robert Downey Jr. Directed by Neil Jordan.
ISN'T SHE GREAT -- Bette Midler portrays Jacqueline Susann, the "Valley of the Dolls" author, and Nathan Lane is her husband and manager, Irving Mansfield. Written by Paul Rudnick and directed by Andrew Bergman.
THE LEAGUE -- With Al Pacino and Dennis Quaid. Directed by Oliver Stone.
MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE -- With Kevin Costner, Paul Newman and Robin Wright Penn. A love story filmed amid the world of sailing off the coast of Maine.
SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS -- With Ethan Hawke, James Cromwell, Max von Sydow and Youki Koudoh. Scott Hicks directs this adaptation of David Guterson's novel about a Japanese man in the Pacific Northwest who is unjustly accused of murder. Feb. 19.
TOWN AND COUNTRY -- With Warren Beatty, Diane Keaton and Goldie Hawn. Directed by Peter Chelsom.
TRUE CRIME -- With Clint Eastwood, James Woods and Diane Venora.
24-HOUR WOMAN -- Rosie Perez is a high-powered television producer whose life changes drastically with the birth of her first child. Directed by Nancy Savoca.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HAUNTED -- Danny Glover and Oprah Winfrey in "Beloved," Jonathan Demme's adaptation of the Toni Morrison novel, due in October. (Ken Regan/Camera 5/Touchstone Pictures); AFTER LIFE Robin Williams and Annabella Sciorra in "What Dreams May Come," opening in October. (Polygram Films); NO. 1 -- Cate Blanchett as the young queen in "Elizabeth," opening in November. (Alex Bailey/Gramercy Pictures)(pg. 77); PLANET HOLLYWOOD -- Kevin Spacey, left, Anna Paquin and Sean Penn are among an ensemble of stars in a film version of the 1984 David Rabe play "Hurlyburly," which is to be released in December. (Fine Line Features); G.I.'S -- Adrien Brody, left, Woody Harrelson and Sean Penn in "The Thin Red Line," opening Dec. 25. (Merie W. Wallace); ODD COUPLE -- Vinicius de Oliveira, left, and Fernanda Montenegro in "Central Station," opening Nov. 13. (Sony Pictures Classics); POWER OF WORDS -- Saul Williams, left, is a rapper and poet and Sonja Sohn is a writing teacher in "Slam," which won the grand-jury prize at Sundance last January. The film will open next month. (Trimark); SWINGING INSECTS -- Z (with the voice of Woody Allen), left, and Princess Bala (Sharon Stone) in "Antz," a Dreamworks movie that is to open in October. (Dreamworks)(pg. 86); BATTLING BOOKSELLERS -- Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan in "You've Got Mail," scheduled for December. (Warner Brothers); CHAPLINESQUE -- Robert Benigni, left, and Nicoletta Brashi in "Life is Beautiful," a comedy touched with pathos. It opens in October. (Sergio Strizzi/Miramax); UNSTRUNG -- Nick Nolte in "Affliction," which is to open in December. (Attila Dory/Lions Gate Films); DARK VISIONS -- Ian McKellen and Rosalind Ayres, above, in "Gods and Monsters," about the last days of the openly gay director James Whale; it opens Nov. 6. (Ann Fisbein/Lions Gate Films)(pg. 92)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (68%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (75%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MAGAZINE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (68%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (75%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FILM (86%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); HEROIN (72%); BESTSELLERS (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); FESTIVALS (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (57%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN ANNA PAQUIN (79%); JAMES L JONES (73%); MERYL STREEP (71%); OPRAH WINFREY (59%); BEN STILLER (56%); CATE BLANCHETT (56%); TOM HANKS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



327 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Bombings Cast a Shadow On East African Tourism

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE bombings at the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania have frightened away travelers from East Africa just as Kenya was hoping for an end to a years-old slump in foreign tourism, and as Tanzania was finally beginning to reap the benefits from a major investment in the travel industry.
Tour operators who specialize in travel in Kenya and Tanzania, which boast some of Africa's best game parks and sunniest beaches, say there have been no mass cancellations as a result of the Aug. 7 Embassy bombings in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, which left more than 250 people dead. 
 But they report a number of worried calls from prospective travelers, many of them alarmed by the possibility of more terrorist attacks in the region. "People have been calling, and we've been reassuring them that we don't see further problems," said Mary Mkimbo, a spokeswoman in New York for the Kenya Tourist Office.
The State Department, which does not want to see Kenya and Tanzania punished economically as a result of terrorist attacks that were clearly targeted at the United States, has lifted dire travel warnings issued just after the bombings that urged Americans to stay away from the countries. New public announcements put out on Aug. 13 suggest only that Americans "exercise caution" when visiting Kenya and Tanzania.
Embassy employees in both cities have gone back to work, although in new locations. The bombed-out Embassy in Nairobi is expected to be demolished after the F.B.I. has finished gathering evidence. The embassy in Dar es Salaam suffered less damage from the blast, although it, too, may have to be razed. For now, the State Department says, Embassy employees can offer only emergency consular service.
Foreign visitors to Nairobi and Dar es Salaam since the bombings have noted a reassuringly heavy presence of both police and soldiers on the streets of the two capitals. Crew-cut F.B.I. agents fill many of the luxury hotels in the two cities.
Western diplomats and intelligence officials say there is no reason to believe that terrorists affiliated with Osama bin Laden, the exiled Saudi millionaire who is accused of organizing the Embassy bombings, plan to strike again soon in either country.
Still, the televised images of the charred hulks of the American Embassy buildings will likely haunt the travel industry in East Africa for years. "The tourism industry is very sensitive to the news media," said Ms. Mkimbo. "We do expect a little downward movement in the industry."
The tourism industry in Kenya has been troubled for years -- in part because of the opening of new safari destinations in South Africa, in part because of Nairobi's well-deserved reputation for street crime. Tourism industry revenues reportedly dropped to $300 million last year, down from $450 million the year before.
The Government has responded to the slump with a series of actions to lure tourists back, including a marked improvement in the service of Kenya Airways, the national airline, which has gone into partnership with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines. The bombing will doubtless set back those efforts.
Tourism has never been so well-developed an industry in neighboring Tanzania, which is home to Mt. Kilimanjaro, the magnificent wildlife of Serengeti National Park and the exotic island of Zanzibar.
But the lack of infrastructure has worked to Tanzania's advantage in recent years given the dramatic growth in the number of adventure travelers who are willing, even eager to go without the five-star safari resorts that Kenya offers. The number of visitors to Tanzania jumped from fewer than 100,000 in 1980 to more than 300,000 last year, prompting the Government to improve roads needed for safari tours.
"Tanzania has just been underdeveloped for years, and they're beginning to develop it now," said Jalal Ebrahim, president of Safaricentre International, a tour operator in Manhattan Beach, Calif. "There were fewer people in the parks in Tanzania, and that's what attracted visitors. It was more pristine."
Mr. Ebrahim, whose company has been sending American travelers on East African safaris for 13 years, said that his company had received only one cancellation as a result of the embassy bombings -- and that he did not expect many more.
"We had one cancellation from a couple who decided they were just going to wait and see what happened," he said. "Our clients are adventure travelers and most of them are very savvy. They read a lot, they stay on top of world events." They understand, he said, that increasingly terrorism knows no borders.
The United States Embassy in Nairobi is now operating out of the offices of the Agency for International Development on The Crescent, in the neighborhood of Nairobi known as the Parklands; (254-2) 751-613. The Embassy in Dar es Salaam is at 285 Toure Drive; (255-51) 666-015.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KENYA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (94%); DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

COMPANY: DAR ES SALAAM AIRPORTS HANDLING CO LTD (57%); AMERICAN EMBASSY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EMBASSY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENYA; TANZANIA; KENYA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (94%); DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES BOMBINGS (94%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); TOURISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); LODGING (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



328 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 48; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2978 words

HEADLINE: His Debut as a Woman

BYLINE: By Andrew Jacobs; Andrew Jacobs is a reporter for the Metro section of The Times. This is his first article for the magazine.

 BODY:
David Buechner darts around his Upper West Side apartment consumed by that prosaic ritual known as spring cleaning. Few domestic chores carry as much metaphoric heft -- casting off winter's accumulated dust and detritus, embracing renewal and rebirth -- but for the 39-year-old classical pianist, the task has been especially symbolic. Strewn beneath the Steinway grand that fills the living room are piles of tailored Italian suits, unassuming cashmere sweaters and a lifetime's worth of ties, all bound for the Salvation Army. In a newly purged closet, arranged according to hue, hang the season's latest acquisitions: a summery frilled blouse, a plum chiffon dress, a black Chanel gown and dozens of off-the-rack dresses. "I guess this is what they mean when they say 'coming out of the closet,' " cracks Buechner with a weary smile.
This week, when he plays a pair of Chopin concertos at Manhattan's Good Shepherd Presbyterian Church, Buechner will not be wearing the traditional tails and bow tie. Dressed in a white silk gown and matching pumps, hair flowing past the shoulders, the pianist will be introduced as Sara Davis Buechner, making him surely the nation's first concert pianist to undergo a midcareer sex change. 
 After three decades wrestling with his gender, bouts of heavy drinking, a failed marriage and flirtations with suicide, Buechner decided in 1996 to embrace his true self. Last year he began taking estrogen, plunged into a grueling regimen of electrolysis and started to venture out dressed as a woman. "To me, the choice was simple," Buechner says. "Live as Sara or give up on living."
The winner of a dozen international piano competitions, Buechner has earned a place in the classical music world with an eclectic repertory, dizzying technical prowess and a flashy performing style that a British critic once described as "saucy." He has played solo with the world's most prestigious orchestras, including the New York Philharmonic, the National Symphony in Washington, the Japan Philharmonic and the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra in England. He is also a prolific recording artist who has taken on the works of Mozart, Gershwin, Dvorak and the film composer Miklos Rozsa.
Although Buechner had hoped to control the timing of his public coming out, the rumor mill, churning at a furious pace, accelerated the process last spring and forced him to confront the thorny issues sooner than expected. Even those closest to him say they were completely unaware of his secret. Known for a vigorous -- some might call it aggressive -- playing style, a penchant for cigars and a devotion to the Yankees, Buechner was what one friend calls "a guy's guy," a wisecracking, backslapping bon vivant who frequently had a pretty girl by his side. "When David told me what he was going to do, I just assumed he was joking and waited for the punch line," says his longtime manager Douglas Schwalbe. "Needless to say, it came as quite a shock." In retrospect, Buechner recognizes the hypermasculine behavior as a way of masking feminine feelings, saying, "I was desperately trying to fit in, to play the role people expected."
Even in an age when drag queens like RuPaul achieve mainstream status and cross-dressing films like "Tootsie," "Mrs. Doubtfire" and "Priscilla, Queen of the Desert" win Academy Awards and public affection, Buechner's high-profile transformation is a decidedly risky one. As word of his gender reassignment spread through the close-knit classical music world, Buechner, who now asks to be referred to as female, began to endure a string of rejections; seven universities turned her down for full-time positions, she claims, after learning that they would be hiring Sara, not David. Her fall concert schedule, usually packed with appearances from Tampa to Sacramento, is thinner than usual. "Let's face it," says JoAnn Falletta, a friend who conducts the Buffalo Philharmonic, Virginia Symphony and Long Beach Symphony in California, "this is a conservative business based on 18th- and 19th-century traditions. I'm not sure the boards who run America's orchestras are ready for Sara."
Although few states or institutions prohibit discrimination against transgendered people, those who decided not to hire Buechner say it had nothing to do with the sex change. "David Buechner is a brilliant pianist, but when you're talking about a tenured teaching position, there are other factors to consider," says Bernard Dobroski, dean of Northwestern University's School of Music. He declined to elaborate, citing the confidentiality of the selection process. Others simply refused to comment.
Some have hinted that Buechner's decision to orchestrate the coming out with the help of a publicist suggests an awareness of its career-boosting potential, a way of rising above the crowd. It is an accusation that fills her with rage. "Why would I ruin friendships and devastate my family for some dubious gain?" she says. "It just goes to show you how cynical and bitter the classical music world is." In fact, Buechner was so convinced her career would implode that she considered taking a teaching job at a Rumanian conservatory "until the bad press blows over."
To her surprise, however, things have not been as disastrous as anticipated. Both New York University and the Manhattan School of Music, where Buechner teaches, agreed to keep her on, as did Yamaha, the company that provides her concert pianos in exchange for publicity. "As long as it doesn't affect his playing, it makes no difference to us," says Susan Davies Muhler, of Yamaha's artist services department.
If anything, Buechner says her playing has improved since she first sat at the keyboard a year ago dressed as Sara (a name she has coveted since childhood). "I was emotionally tied up in knots and completely disconnected from what was coming out of the piano," she says. "Now when I play, I feel incredibly free, and I think that's reflected in the music." Moreover, the paralyzing stage fright and the bleeding ulcers have vanished since Sara came into being. Friends, too, say that Buechner seems happier than ever. "It's as if she has nothing left to prove," says Jens Nygaard, a longtime friend who conducts the Jupiter Symphony, based in New York. "The anguish seems to have been lifted."
It has been more than 45 years since George Jorgensen emerged from an operating room as Christine and shocked Eisenhower's America. Since then, thousands of men and women suffering from what psychiatrists call gender dysphoria, a profound discomfort with one's sex, have undergone surgery. According to the International Foundation for Gender Education, more than 1,500 Americans surgically alter their genitals each year, and countless others live in various states of gender nonconformity. The so-called transgendered community includes intersexed individuals (also known as hermaphrodites), full-time transsexuals who have no interest in surgery and others who simply cross-dress in private.
For the most part, Americans continue to view such individuals with a mix of curiosity, incredulity and revulsion. In a study conducted last year by Gender PAC, a national advocacy group for gender rights, nearly 60 percent of the transgendered people surveyed said they had been violently assaulted, often by two or more attackers. "RuPaul is funny as long as she stays in a television studio," says Riki Anne Wilchins, the group's executive director. "But try walking to the subway and she'll be a grease spot on the sidewalk before she makes it home."
Although the number of transgendered men and women is thought to be about equal, far more men -- at least 75 percent -- seek sex-change operations, a reflection of the imperfect state of female-to-male surgery. A complete mastectomy can result in significant scarring, and building a penis out of forearm tissue remains risky, says Dr. Sheila Kirk, a transsexual obstetrician-gynecologist who runs a transgender surgical clinic in Pittsburgh. "Most F-to-M's I know live in limbo, a state of endless anxiety about being incomplete," says Jamison Green, who runs F.T.M. International in San Francisco.
According to guidelines developed by the Harry Benjamin International Gender Dysphoria Association, individuals considering surgery should first undergo a "real-life experience" and live openly as the opposite sex for a significant period of time. F-to-M's, as they're commonly called, often find that they have an easier time "passing." While male hormones can produce facial hair and deepen the female voice, little can alter a man's baritone after puberty has thickened the vocal cords. And while many male transsexuals lose their jobs and slip a rung or two down the economic ladder after they come out, female transsexuals often report an increase in economic status after they've become men.
For Buechner, the discomfort with being male began long ago. She describes a childhood in suburban Baltimore that, while intensely lonely, was largely unremarkable. Still, from an early age, Buechner felt far more female than male. At 5, he was sneaking into his mother's closet to try on clothing. "She was such a theatrical person, very charismatic and very stylish," Buechner says. "I always wanted to be like her, to look like her."
It wasn't long before he realized the dress-up sessions were verboten. For years, Buechner wrestled with shame and confusion, bouncing from one therapist to another, hoping to find a cure for his ailment. "Every one of them tried to convince me this was the result of some childhood trauma, which it isn't," she says now. "Finally I just came to accept the fact that I was just born with the body of a man and a head wired like a woman." Anointed a child prodigy by his teachers, music became his solace, and beginning as an adolescent, Buechner plunged into the grueling world of international piano competitions, entering more than two dozen by the time he was in his mid-20's.
After moving to New York at 17 to attend Juilliard, Buechner discovered a city that, while tolerant of unconventional identities, offered little refuge to those who don't fit the neat categories of "gay" or "straight." At lesbian bars he was seen as a predatory man masquerading as a woman. At gay men's bars, he was often dismissed as a weekend drag queen. "Everywhere I went I was viewed as a freak," she says.
Although admittedly bisexual, the majority of Buechner's relationships have been with women. (Contrary to popular perception, many transgendered people are heterosexual.) At 21, Buechner married a Korean pianist, but the conflict led to an acrimonious breakup in 1987. Freed by the divorce, Buechner spent more and more time cross-dressing, hoping that she could get "the compulsion," as she called it, out of her system. Instead, she came to see it as an intrinsic part of her identity. One November afternoon in 1996, Buechner was walking through Central Park. "It was a beautiful, blue-skied day and suddenly I had this revelation," she says. "I realized I could keep fighting or I could embrace my true self. I decided to stop fighting and immediately felt this incredible peace. I consider that day my second birthday."
While ultimately liberating, Buechner's odyssey has also been expensive, emotionally draining and marked by periods of physical pain. The daily doses of estrogen that have shrunk Buechner's male genitals and given her B-cup breasts carry numerous health risks, including breast cancer and potentially fatal blood clots; the hormones spark disruptive mood swings that can drive her into seclusion for days. Just as taxing are the twice-a-week electrolysis sessions that give Buechner the confidence to face the world as a woman. "It's gotten to the point that a little stubble on my face can keep me indoors," she says.
Perhaps as early as next summer, Buechner hopes to undergo surgery that will complete the metamorphosis. The procedure -- removing the penis and testicles and creating a vagina -- will cost more than $12,000 and require a month of recovery. "I'm terrified of blood and I'm a confirmed hypochondriac," she says, "but I can't imagine myself living as a half man, half woman."
On a recent Tuesday morning, Buechner was lying on an massage table in the Upper East Side apartment of the electrolysist Stephanie Fischman, a postoperative transsexual who has a large clientele of transgendered men. Fifteen minutes into the session and Buechner's neck and chin are already carpeted with hundreds of tiny red blotches. "I call it my Homer Simpson look," she says with a laugh as Fischman wields a tiny needle. Besides her cosmetic services, Fischman provides Buechner with advice on how to cope with the vagaries of becoming a woman.
During their 90-minute sessions, Fischman, a fast-talking former construction worker from the Bronx, does her best to soothe Buechner's anxiety. "But the truth is," Fischman says, "life as a transsexual isn't a bed of roses." After Fischman had the surgery six years ago, she lost her job and her family and found herself taunted on the street. "The worst part is the feeling of vulnerability," she says during a cigarette break. "As soon as you come out, anything horrible that happens to you is justified. People think you deserve it."
The session over, Buechner retreats to a York Avenue coffee shop for breakfast, a Yankees cap partly shading her blistered face. Waiters and patrons stare unabashedly, and the blue-haired matron at an adjoining booth switches tables in the middle of her meal. Buechner feels especially dispirited on electrolysis days, when she is forced to leave off makeup and go out as a man. "It's so disorienting," she says over a plate of scrambled eggs. "I don't know quite who I am."
A few weeks later, Buechner is filled with fear and fury. Someone -- she suspects a jealous competitor -- has been anonymously faxing around copies of her revised bio, which is prompting telephone calls from long lost friends who ask if "that crazy story" is true. Most colleagues and friends are taken aback when told the news, and a handful of male friends have simply stopped calling. Buechner has feared from the outset that people will assume she is damaged goods, so she must work harder to prove them wrong. "But no matter how great I play," she says, "the first line in my obituary will invariably read, 'Sara Buechner, the transsexual pianist. . . . ' I guess that's something I will have to live with."
By far the greatest source of anguish has been the reaction of Buechner's parents, who feel ashamed and betrayed. Anthony Buechner, an engineer, once asked Sara to change her last name as well as her first. "You won't be able to play the piano," he told her in a recent phone conversation. "The only job you'll be able to get is at a checkout counter." Elizabeth Buechner, an attorney in Baltimore, is convinced that her child is simply going through a midlife crisis. In Buechner's journal he records her telling him again and again: "This isn't just about you. You have responsibilities. You can be cured. Besides, you'll never be a real woman. You don't have a real vagina."
Anthony Buechner declined to talk about his son but Elizabeth Buechner stressed that she remains proud of her child's accomplishments, "not only as an artist but as a person." She deflected questions about her son's sex change and repeated a statement she had prepared: "David has brought us a lot of joy. We love him and support him," she said haltingly. "There's nothing more to add." His brother, a biochemist in Kansas, openly frets over how to break the news to his two young daughters. "Just tell them that Uncle David has become Aunt Sara and she's much happier now," Buechner says impatiently. "I don't think kids are as disturbed by these things as adults are."
Buechner's tuxedo, mothballed for several months, had to be taken out of the closet in late July for a concert in Lake Placid. Because David had signed the contract the previous winter, Buechner felt obliged to show up as, well, David. She left her makeup bag at home and pulled her wavy auburn hair into a ponytail. "I feel like I'm playacting," she said a few hours before the Saturday-night performance. She found some comfort in knowing, however, that this recital would be David Buechner's last. When the audience rose to applaud and demand an encore, Buechner played an especially sentimental rendition of the Gershwin standard "The Man I Love," a private tribute, she says, to the passing of David. After the concert, she left his clothing behind.
Although she has felt more peace than ever before, the summer months have been filled with alternating bouts of dread and euphoria. Most of Buechner's private students took the news in stride -- a Russian student even gave her some jewelry -- but one of Buechner's favorites, a talented Korean pianist, reacted with disgust. "Your new life will only make mine more confusing," she wrote in the letter explaining her decision to switch teachers. Still, Buechner's spirits have been buoyed by a budding relationship with a Japanese musician, a woman who has thus far weathered the transition.
Even at moments when she feels overwhelmed, Buechner maintains a sharp wit and wry, self-deprecating sense of humor. Walking down a Greenwich Village street one morning for a meeting with the head of New York University's music school, Buechner seems less concerned about the dean's potential reaction than the clippity-clop sound produced by her high-heel shoes. "That's the most annoying part of being a woman," she says. Then she gestures to an elderly woman in a housecoat wobbling by. "But you know, the scariest part of all this," she says with mock earnestness, "is the realization that one day I'm going to turn into a little old lady."

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Alexei Hay); Duet for one: As David, Buechner was "completely disconnected from what was coming out of the piano." As Sara: "I feel incredibly free." (Photographs by Peter Schaaf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (70%); UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: THE SALVATION ARMY (57%); THE SALVATION ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (57%); THE SALVATION ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (70%); UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TRANSSEXUALS KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (87%); GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (87%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); 

PERSON: BUECHNER, DAVID (SARA DAVIS BUECHNER); BUECHNER, SARA DAVIS; JACOBS, ANDREW SARA DAVIS BUECHNER (96%); DAVID BUECHNER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



329 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: Culture Zone;
Out of Order

BYLINE: By Daniel Zalewski; Daniel Zalewski is an editor of The Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Wandering around the Pierre Bonnard retrospective currently on view at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, I found myself in search of lost time. MOMA's curators, in hanging the show's 82 paintings, rejected the cradle-to-grave chronology that typically anchors a career survey. Instead, Bonnard's luminous works were grouped thematically -- landscapes in one gallery, still lifes in another -- with a pointed disregard for dates. Youthful efforts from the 1920's were tossed together with canvases painted around 1947, the year of Bonnard's death. The Frenchman's last completed painting, a small, dappled image of a blossoming almond tree, was stuck into the center of the show. The result was an imaginative but odd survey, one in which innocence and experience commingled as one.
Of course, that was partly the point. Museum curators -- and art historians in general -- have recently grown wary of the old-fashioned retrospective. Early career, middle career, late career. How boring! It's seen as far more exciting to hang shows with an eye for the striking juxtaposition, even if a sense of the artist's life gets lost in the shuffle. (Witness the Whitney museum's mix-and-match Edward Hopper survey in 1995.) This fashionable resistance to chronology represents more than a desire to jazz things up, however. The apprentice-to-master narrative that traditionally governs a retrospective, it is said, falsely suggests that artistic lives are marked by constant progress, that later work is somehow a sage synthesis of all that came before. After all, for every artist who flowers in old age, another fizzles. 
 These critiques have some merit. Nonetheless, as the MOMA exhibit sent me ricocheting from decade to decade, I began to suspect I was missing something. Was there a period when Bonnard was particularly florid in his output? When, exactly, did he become close friends with Matisse? Were the sunflower hues of "Cafe 'Au Petit
Poucet' " (Gallery 2) painted around the same time as the vibrant golds of "Large Yellow Nude" (Gallery 5)? Was Bonnard's art affected -- at all -- by the two World Wars he lived through? The show rebuffed such questions. In one placard, the curators acknowledged that Bonnard "went through stylistic changes," but insisted that these shifts were "finally less important than the way he treated his key subjects."
MOMA's concern was not with Bonnard's personal trajectory but with his purely formal innovations: the visual games embedded in his busy interiors, the bold color contrasts in his still lifes.
And yet, much of the appeal of retrospectives is that, like biographies of artists, they offer an opportunity to explore connections between art and life. Consider Bonnard's bathroom portraits (presented out of sequence in two adjoining galleries). In these obsessive works, Bonnard painted his wife, Marthe, eternally in the guise of a young, healthy woman -- even as she fell victim to a prolonged bout with tuberculosis. As a result, there is an added poignancy to Bonnard's later portraits; they are paintings in a clearly elegiac mode. Although a 1925 portrait of Marthe bathing has a somber feel -- she appears confined to a watery tomb -- Bonnard's later variations on this theme display an almost bizarre brightness. The bathroom tiles glitter like Byzantine mosaics and Marthe's submerged flesh glistens with illusory radiance (despite the fact that she was disintegrating before his eyes). As Bonnard aged, the gap between image and reality often grew distended; at times, disturbingly so. Yet such connections were all but impossible to make with MOMA's scrambled presentation.
The same afternoon I visited MOMA, I attended "An Expressionist in Paris: The Paintings of Chaim Soutine," a retrospective at the Jewish Museum in Manhattan. (The show closed in August, but reopens on Sept. 27 at the Los Angeles County Museum.) Here, the curators were even more aggressive about tossing away the time line, organizing the retrospective according to "critical reception." As the exhibit's wall text explained, Soutine's earliest champions in the 1920's celebrated him as a Jewish "primitive" whose raw portraits of working-class subjects contrasted with prettified salon paintings of the day. Paintings that supported this view were placed in the first gallery. After the painter's death in 1943, art critics began to view his talents differently, seeing Soutine's deliriously abstracted landscapes as his peak achievements. Images in this vein were placed at the end of the show. The problem is, Soutine painted many of these expressionist landscapes years before the "primitive" offerings in the first gallery. Confused?
The resulting show felt a bit like Martin Amis's novel "Time's Arrow": completely backward. To wit, Roberta Smith, a Times critic, recommended that visitors could best apprehend Soutine's development by walking through the exhibit from back to front. Fortunately, she pointed out with a dash of sarcasm, "the show is small enough for Soutine's progress to be reconstituted in the mind."
Kenneth E. Silver, an art historian at New York University who was one of the Soutine show's curators, admits that the primary impulse for shuffling the deck was "chronology fatigue." As he puts it, "It's a feeling that has really welled up in my generation of curators." More than anything else, however, Silver was determined to have the retrospective end with a bang -- even though Soutine's life had ended with a whimper. "His style became progressively less daring, in my view," he says. "With a chronological approach, what you would feel as you exited the show is deflation, the sense of a fall from grace. I didn't think that did Soutine a service." At the same time, Silver acknowledges that his temporal sleight of hand "may have misled some visitors about Soutine's life." He recalls with a laugh: "I recently met a woman at a party who loved the show. She told me how much she liked Soutine's early work. But as we talked, I realized that she meant the late work!"
The origins of Silver's chronology fatigue can be traced to the academy, where various theorists have lately portrayed "linear narratives" as oppressive constructs. In a 1995 issue of Art Journal, Patricia Mathews, an art historian at Oberlin College, declared: "Chronological surveys typically misrepresent the history of art as a seamlessly coherent narrative." More generally, she argued, "art historians have fetishized a chronological, diachronic model based on causality and often teleology that supports a linear model of history and an elitist, exclusive lineage of art." Uh-oh.
The upshot of this kind of thinking is that at many top schools, Art History 101 -- conventionally a yearlong march from the Romans to Rauschenberg -- has been all shook up. In revamped surveys from Harvard to Northwestern, the story of art is presented not as a series of periods and movements but as a gallery of themes: the representation of women one week, religious allegories the next, with perhaps a class on abstraction to follow. Works by Caravaggio, Charles Ray and Michelangelo might be squeezed into a lecture on homoeroticism.
Such comparisons, when smartly done, can be illuminating. But for the newcomer, a collage-like approach to history can produce more confusion than enlightenment -- especially when the student has no idea when the Enlightenment actually took place. (Not to mention if it came before or after the Renaissance.) After teaching a nonchronological survey course in 1995, the Berkeley art historian Svetlana Alpers wrote a favorable article about the experience. But she did include the following caveat: "I think one thing that has been lost is the sense that art itself has a history." Such laments are increasingly rare. Indeed, the name "art history" has at many schools been replaced by the term "visual studies."
It's not just people in the art world who are loosening their grip on chronology. The desire to twist time out of joint has even permeated -- of all places -- the biography business. Alain de Botton's whimsical "How Proust Can Change Your Life," published last year, presents a chopped-up, anecdotal biography slyly disguised as a self-help manual. Hermione Lee's vigorous "Virginia Woolf" (1997) is constructed as a series of essays that, in keeping with its modernist subject, avoids a flatly chronological progression. Larry Tye's new "Father of Spin," a portrait of the public relations guru Edward Bernays, also upends the traditional formula, skipping Bernays's childhood and beginning in medias res -- on his wedding day.
Ignoring chronology has its pitfalls, however; as Ron Chernow noted in a Times review, "Bernays's parents aren't fully introduced until page 115, and we don't get a basic description of his appearance until page 142."
The writer Donald Barthelme famously proclaimed that "collage is the central principle of all art in the 20th century," so it's no wonder that the slice-and-dice approach has been embraced by everyone from artists to biographers, novelists to curators. And, admittedly, there's something refreshing about exhibitions like the Bonnard and Soutine. After seeing these radical retrospectives, the straight-up Edward Burne-Jones show recently on view at the Metropolitan Museum of Art felt plodding by comparison. Ultimately, though, the nonchronological retrospective -- and fragmented history -- strike me as oxymorons. In her Art Journal article, Patricia Mathews asks: "Are the questions of who did what when really the most important information for a student to absorb in their first art history course? I think not." Maybe it puts me behind the times, but I think I'd say yes, they are.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ART; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PAINTING (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); ART HISTORY (73%); HISTORY (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); 

PERSON: ZALEWSKI, DANIEL; BONNARD, PIERRE (1867-1947) PIERRE BONNARD (95%); CHAIM SOUTINE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



330 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 66; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3866 words

HEADLINE: The Swoon of the Swoosh

BYLINE: By Timothy Egan; Timothy Egan is a national correspondent for The Times. His profile of Sherman Alexie appeared in the magazine in January.

 BODY:
For some time now, the Nike swoosh has been showing up in the oddest of places, dropped like an inadvertent product plug amid the news of the day. Just before 39 members of the Heaven's Gate cult swallowed a suicide brew last year, they laced up their new black Nikes for a post-mortem chase of a spaceship they believed was trailing the Hale-Bopp comet. Benjamin Walker, a victim of the Springfield, Ore., school shooting in May, was so heavily swooshed in T-shirt and cap in the photo released by authorities that media outlets felt compelled to crop him to a tight facial mug. And then there's O.J. Simpson, the last athlete any company in the world wants to endorse its product, recently seen wearing a Nike cap.
Sports are the heart of American culture, says Philip H. Knight, Nike chairman and co-founder. He has believed this ever since he started peddling waffle-soled running shoes out of his car trunk more than 30 years ago. He spoke then in a language understood only by people who could run a mile in less than five minutes. Now his company slogans are uttered by presidents and schoolchildren the world over. By Nike's own research, the swoosh brand is recognized by 97 percent of Americans, and every man, woman and child in the United States spends an average of $20 a year on the company's products. 
 But be careful what you wish for: the swoosh, never more ubiquitous, is in turnaround. Having plastered the world with a corporate icon rivaled perhaps only by Coca-Cola's cursive, Nike is trying desperately to tone it down, hide it, possibly even lose it. The week before an anxious annual shareholders meeting, Nike still looks in the mirror and sees a sleek rebel, but others see a bully with a beer gut.
"You can make a lot of mistakes around here, but the brand is sacred," says Knight. "I messed that up."
Knight is pacing inside the John McEnroe Building, the intensive-care ward for the ailing swoosh and the center of power inside the earthen berm at Nike World Headquarters in Beaverton, Ore. He is a reddish-haired, somewhat bulge-eyed hypercompetitor; at 60, he still runs regularly. When sneakers became a cultural force more than a decade ago, Knight was dubbed the most powerful man in sports. But he has been angry much of this year, hearing his company described as the symbol for everything that is wrong not only with sports but also with global capitalism itself.
Knight checks in frequently with Gordon Thompson, the company's lead designer. Thompson's current challenge is the biggest yet: how to persuade a new generation of consumers to latch onto a brand trying to reinvent itself after two years of hard hits.
"Hard to believe," says Thompson, showing a chart that illustrates the evolution of the company logo. "But the swoosh has been a stand-alone logo for only four years. We were growing and growing and growing here in Beaverton, and I guess we didn't totally realize what happened to this thing that was supposed to be just a sports logo." On new shoes, Thompson has started to shrink the icon down to just a wisp of a swoosh, barely visible. "The question we've been asking ourselves a lot here," he says, is whether we should just go ahead and take the swoosh off. That's been a pretty hefty debate."
Just a year ago, on Nike's 25th birthday, coming off the best financial 12 months in the company's history, there was no hint of a future without the swoosh. Its fate, the company said, was linked to the march of sports into every corner of the planet. "The 'swooshification of the world' should more appropriately be deemed the Sportsification of the world," Nike officials wrote in the company's annual report for 1997. "We will mature in tandem with the inexorable penetration of sports into the global psyche."
Brave words. But, as it turns out, the swoosh and sports do not always move in tandem. Profits at Nike, the world's leading athletic-shoe-and-apparel maker, plunged 49 percent this fiscal year, despite record sales of $9.6 billion. (More and more Nikes are being sold by discounters, lowering the profit margin.) The stock price has dropped more than 50 percent this year from highs of a year before. Two months ago, Nike reported its first quarterly loss in 13 years, prompting the largest layoffs in company history and a teary apology from Knight.
Nike still sells more than 160 million pairs of athletic shoes a year, and nearly one out of every two pairs in the United States. But the company had pegged its future growth to Asia, where Nike is one of the most visible American victims of the ongoing economic crisis. Worldwide, Nike has about one-third of the total market for athletic shoes. Its nearest competitors, Adidas and Reebok, are far behind in the United States and abroad, but Adidas is gaining ground. And with Michael Jordan, Nike's franchise player, bound for retirement either this year or next, the company has yet to discover, or manufacture, anyone even close to him.
Those are just a few of Nike's problems. Purists say that the company has corrupted sport. Critics of Nike's overseas factories abound, citing the more than 500,000 workers who often earn about $1.50 a day. Some of these critics peg Nike's current woes to their own efforts to tarnish the swoosh -- or the swooshsticka, as the more rabid Nike-haters call it. "We figured out two years ago that the only way to make our campaign against Nike's labor practices work was to try to make the swoosh uncool," says Medea Benjamin, co-director of Global Exchange, a San Francisco-based human rights group.
From Day 1, Nike has insisted it is a company for athletes. But the greatest secret of the sports-footwear-and-apparel business is that most of the product is bought by people who may want to be like Mike or Ken Griffey Jr. or the Brazilian soccer star Ronaldo, but seldom leave the couch. "The reason the basketball shoes have worked so well is because 80 percent of the people who buy them never set foot on a basketball court -- it's a fashion statement," says Vince Francom, a footwear-industry analyst in Seattle. "The problem with fashion is that tastes change very quickly. There's a big backlash against Nike under way. The skateboard generation doesn't want to wear Nikes because their fathers wear them."
And it is the swoosh that has become emblematic of all of Nike's troubles: a fashion statement losing its edge; a sports pyramid that starts with cheap day labor and ends with poor kids trying to pony up $140 for the shoes, and the lost innocence of young athletes.
Phil Knight and his closest executives have heard so much criticism that they have started to parody it. They've hung anti-Nike cartoons all over their walls and filled their annual report with consumers' hate mail. So the question inside the berm is not whether the swoosh has gotten Nike in trouble, but how quickly to act.
"We're a company founded by distance runners -- some of them pretty slow -- so we have a certain amount of patience," wrote Knight in his most recent letter to shareholders. "Nonetheless, we prefer to be timed by a stopwatch, not a calendar."
Inside Nike's main laboratory in the Michael Jordan Building, shoe scientists in lab coats watch slow-motion X-ray videos of how the 26 bones in the human foot react to different strides. Product developers are finishing a shoe modeled after a goat's hoof -- the Goatster, they nicknamed it, designed to grip vertical rock terrain. It's a niche-market shoe, of course, but who knows how many eighth-graders might want to have the latest in extreme-sport fashions.
Nike is also preparing to sell snowboards, boots, hockey sticks and golf equipment but has dropped a curious new baseball glove. About one-third of the company's sales last year came from clothes, gear, watches, eyewear and other products not worn on the foot. The swoosh is no longer being cloned along with fresh product; instead, new logos, with separate identities, are sprouting from within the berm. A new line of Michael Jordan shoes will soon march out of the factories, carrying the Jordan "Jumpman" logo. (For the recent fiscal year, every major category of Nike footwear sold in America suffered a decline in sales, except one -- the Jordan brand, which increased 57 percent.) An Alpha line of shoes and clothing, vaguely defined as "innovative," will be unveiled later this year, carrying a new logo -- five dots, a sort of elongated ellipsis.
Everything, it seems, is in play. Nike's most famous slogan, "Just Do It," disappeared for a time this year after a decade-long run. As it turns out, women did not take to the admonition quite as enthusiastically as men. "I Can" worked better with women, but it also sounded something like a Special Olympics plug, and didn't go over so well with men. "The saying 'I can' sounds so weak!" one man wrote to Nike this year. "And I ain't weak." Just what is the company slogan these days? "We use them all," says Lee Weinstein, Nike's chief spokesman.
From the outside, the Nike campus looks like a fortress hunkered among the forests and office parks of suburban Portland. From the inside, it feels like a jock's version of "The Truman Show," with militantly casual ex-athletes and creative overachievers hustling between buildings named for legendary Nike stars. Knight says the idea behind the berm was to create a world unto its own for Nike employees when they returned from road trips -- a sort of Vatican for the missionaries of sneakers. It is also supposed to be a place of inspiration, recovery and swoosh indoctrination for Nike's army of athletes.
Athletes with an attitude have always been at the top of the fashion food chain at Nike. At a time when other shoe companies are backing away from endorsements, Nike is still building its roster. It now has more than 3,000 athletes in the fold worldwide, including 72 percent of the players in the National Basketball Association, 60 percent in Major League Baseball and half the players in the National Football League. More than 200 universities fly the flag of swoosh.
The multipierced illustrated man of basketball, Dennis Rodman, was once a Nike guy, but the company revoked his swoosh. "He's a great player," Knight says, "but he's crazy." Shaquille O'Neal, the telegenic center with the high-wattage smile, showed up a few years ago at the Nike campus for a get-acquainted session -- swathed in Reebok gear. Things went downhill from there.
Knight likes winners, of course, but rebels are closest to his heart. The N.B.A. tried to ban the first Air Jordans (they weren't considered regulation sneakers), much to the delight of Knight. There was cheering inside the John McEnroe Building when Casey Martin, the disabled golfer whose cause Knight took up when it looked like a long shot, challenged the golf establishment and became the first man to play the United States Open in a powered cart. "What we are all about," Knight says, "is being against the establishment." Yes, but what happens when you are the establishment, when the swoosh shows up in more country clubs than asphalt alleys?
Nike's response has been to try new ways of "branding." Nike, of course, is not alone in this pursuit. The idea is simply to create a connection between consumer and product, a link often having nothing to do with what is actually being sold. Nike has always tried to sell something more than leather and nylon, promoting the swoosh as a personal statement. But the retail world is littered with once-thriving brandings that have ended badly. L.A. Gear, for example, was an upstart sneaker company that rode the aerobics craze to dizzying heights, then crashed when it tried to put its label on too many other things. Because the swoosh is so ubiquitous, Nike executives realize they now have a hard time using a renegade posture. And Adidas, the German company that was the establishment when young Nike came pounding at the door, has succeeded in an otherwise flat retail-shoe environment by capitalizing on its underdog status to Nike.
"A lot of kids think they are now discovering Adidas for the first time, as it becomes the anti-Nike," says Bob McGee, the editor of Sporting Goods Intelligence.
Further complicating Nike's task, the company's "brand soul" has been especially hurt by the spate of negative stories about its overseas labor practices and its defensive posture. "What's happening to Nike is extremely dangerous for any brand," says John Bowen, a New York consultant and writer on brand resonance. "Consumers today are more concerned about the culture of the organization behind the brand. They want to feel good about the company they are buying from."
I draped myself in borrowed swoosh during the lunch hour one day and went for a run with the president of Nike, Tom Clarke. A former college track coach with a Ph.D. in biomechanics, he is fast, pleasant and open about the company's problems. Nike, the global dominator, can still be cool, he told me, if it sends the right message to the right audience. "A lot of the coolness factor comes from how you communicate," says Clarke, 47, gliding along at a 7-minute-mile pace, slow for him. "I get people who come up to me all the time and say, 'Man, I did not understand that ad at all.' I think that's a good thing." He has a point. But as I ran through the streets of Beaverton with the latest in swoosh-covered tank top, shorts and shoes, I did not feel cool. I felt like a two-legged billboard for a $9 billion company.
The question of how Nike lost some of its coolness is an open debate inside the berm. Most Nike executives simply blame the ubiquity of the swoosh, the icon inspired by the wing of a Greek goddess. It was dreamed up in 1971 by a design student in Portland, a woman Knight hired when he was still moonlighting as an accounting teacher. It cost him $35.
"Clearly, we had the swoosh on everything and it was just ridiculous," says Mark Parker, a Nike vice president for global footwear. "I remember walking into Texas Stadium, and they had taken the swoosh and put it on the stairs, on cheerleaders, on the walls. I said, 'Oh, my God, this is our worst nightmare."'
Others blame a humor lapse in some of the recent ads. Self-important to a fault, they showed perfectly chiseled world-class athletes, buck naked -- an attempt to sell Nike athletic wear.
But if the swoosh does not light up advertising focus groups the way it used to, Nike has another icon that has yet to show a downside: Michael Jordan. Last June, in the midst of Nike's deepening troubles, came the most glorious 59 seconds of the year for the company. Just when it was said that the greatest person ever to play the game was past his pull date, the old man did it again. In Game 6 of the N.B.A. Finals, Nike's franchise player singlehandedly pulled off a victory -- and the championship -- while wearing a pair of Air Jordan XIV's, which retail for about $150. The shoe sailed out of stores.
Clinging to Jordan as long as possible, Nike may bring out a line of Jordan casual shoes, following up with everything from Jordan socks to suits. Nike executives figure that if Tommy Hilfiger and Ralph Lauren, neither of whom ever did anything dramatic on a basketball court, can sell billions of dollars worth of clothing, the world's best-known athlete can do the same, or much better. If Nike takes this step with Jordan, it would mark a huge leap into relatively unfamiliar retail territory. The last time the company tried such a thing, selling so-called "brown shoes" in the mid-1980's, it was clobbered. Knight says the company learned its lesson. Still, Jordan's name is so strong that Nike cannot seem to resist what they see as his Midas touch.
Jordan, arguably the company's best asset, is planning to tour the Nike factories in Asia, arguably the company's worst liability. It was Jordan's idea, says Weinstein, the company spokesman. Jordan has grown tired of all the questions about factory wages and says he wants to see firsthand what the fuss is about. Still, his tour is designed not so much to cheer up factory hands in Hanoi as to connect with a particular brand of swoosh consumers: females. The labor issue keeps coming up in focus groups with girls as young as 12, Nike executives told me.
Phil Knight has seen the future of his industry and it does not have an Adam's apple. Twenty-five years ago, he says, only 1 in 30 school-age girls played sports; today it's 1 in 5. Nearly 40 percent of high-school athletes are girls. And so the Nike poster athlete of the new millennium is a female American soccer player, Mia Hamm. I ran this name by many of my sports-loving friends, all of them ESPN habitues, runners and soccer parents. We buy gear and channel-surf with the best of them. Our reaction was the same: Who? Then I asked my 11-year-old daughter about Mia Hamm, and she looked at me as if I were as dumb as a fence post. With Hamm, Nike has managed to go below adult radar, just as Tom Clarke alluded to on our run.
Hamm is 26 years old, from Chapel Hill, N.C., winner of an Olympic gold medal and a World Championship title. She is beautiful. She can use a verb. She has the right hint of attitude. And if enough people ever start watching women's soccer -- Nike is heavily promoting next year's Women's World Cup, to be staged in the United States -- she may be gold for the Beaverton sneaker company.
"Why shouldn't girls around the world say, 'I want to be like Mia?"' asks Katherine Melchior Ray, the head of Nike women's footwear. At Nike, that refrain can sound like a prayer.
Hamm's sport also happens to be the world's most popular athletic pastime. In trying to build its market share in soccer, Nike signed the Brazilian national team for a reported $200 million and made a long-term deal with Ronaldo, the team's 21-year-old star. It was all supposed to come together this year at the World Cup in France, where Nike spent $40 million on advertising and promotions.
In France, Nike's lightweight, sticky-toed Mercurial shoes were worn by many a soccer player, including those on the United States national team (which Nike also sponsored, and which lost all three of its games). And the shoe has sold well, Nike says. But the swoosh took its share of World Cup hits. The newspaper Liberation accused Nike of promoting "totalitarian esthetics" with billboards around Paris of Aryan-looking youth marching forward for sport. The ads were pulled. "They looked like fascists," says Vince Francom, the industry analyst. "You had to wonder what Nike was thinking. In the championship game, watched by more people than any other sports event in history, Brazil was upstaged -- and soundly beaten -- by the French national team, which was sponsored by Adidas. The French were brash, aggressive, multi-ethnic, a snub to the establishment -- in short, a perfect Nike team. Phil Knight acknowledges as much, with a wince. Worse yet, Ronaldo suffered a seizure before the game and played listlessly, sparking worldwide speculation that Nike pressured the Brazil coach to keep the unfit superstar in the lineup -- a charge that Knight vehemently denies. In the end, he says, Ronaldo and the Brazilians are bound to pay off for Nike. Ronaldo's nickname, after all, is O Dono do Mundo: the King of the World.
One problem: The King still has some name-recognition problems in this country. "Michael Jordan," admits Mark Parker, "had never heard of him."
The wind is calm this afternoon on Lake Nike, the 10-acre body of water on the corporate campus. Knight is sitting inside the company boardroom, the table a massive oval of honey maple. There is not a swoosh in sight. After a year of playing defense, Knight has been on the offensive for months, preparing for next week's annual meeting.
The low point, perhaps, came in April, when the Nike backlash hit very close to home. Outside the Portland Niketown, some 200 people hissed and booed a 20-foot likeness of Knight and urged his company to pay higher wages in Asia. Knight shrugs off most of the criticism, saying it comes with Nike's perch atop the sporting world. But he can still get very emotional about his company.
"I have just two words to say," he told employees earlier this year while announcing the layoff of 1,300 workers. "I'm sorry." Every downward tick of the stock, every slashing parody in "Doonesbury," Knight seems to take personally. And, financially, it does affect him personally; he owns nearly 96 million shares of Nike stock, 34 percent of the company. Married, with two grown children, he has lived in the same house for the past 25 years. But his holdings are worth more than $3 billion.
In college, Knight ran a 4-minute-10-second mile, fast enough to make a team, the University of Oregon Ducks, that is to track and field what Notre Dame is to football, but too slow to win many races. His idea for a global company -- with shoes designed in the United States, manufactured in low-wage factories in Asia, then sold worldwide -- has been remarkably consistent.
The early selling point was that Knight and Bill Bowerman, the Oregon coach and Nike co-founder, listened to athletes. Every ounce shaved off a running shoe was 200 fewer pounds lifted per mile, they used to say. What has surprised Knight is how the big ride to the top happened so quickly, and now, how it has generated so much spite.
"Obviously, we want our trademark to be special," says Knight, mulling over the nagging question of what to do with the swoosh. "But there is such a thing as letting it become too popular. We grew from $3 billion to $9 billion, and there was no forecast for that to happen."
For his part, Knight seems alternately playful and morose about the company's future. When asked about retirement, he laughs. "I want to die here," he says. "Hopefully, not soon."
In May, Knight went before the National Press Club in Washington to announce changes in Nike factory labor practices. He used the opportunity to bait reporters. "I figured that I'd just come out and let you journalists have a look at the Great Satan up close and personal," he said.
During his speech, Knight unveiled plans to set a minimum age of 18 at all Nike footwear factories. The company has also shifted to water-based solvents to bond the shoes, instead of the harmful toluene. Nike started a loan program for young entrepreneurs in Vietnam and Indonesia and promised to set up an independent monitoring system at its factories. Critics were somewhat mollified, but they are still calling on Nike to double wages. Anticipating a row at next week's annual meeting, Nike officials say the focus of their presentations will be on "corporate responsibility." No talk of the Goatster, apparently.
But even in bad times, the company has held to its swagger. "I think as long as Phil is there, the anti-establishment part of Nike is not going to go away," says Neil Goldschmidt, the former Oregon governor and a one-time Nike vice president.
Nor is the swoosh ever likely to disappear completely. Nike may ultimately abandon the swoosh, but the swoosh will never abandon Phil Knight -- it is tattooed on his left ankle.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Just overdo it: Philip H. Knight, the C.E.O., thinks too much visibility is one reason why Nike has been under attack in the last year. (Lauren Greenfield); Their ad here: During television coverage of the 1998 Winter Olympics, CBS drew criticism when the swoosh turned up on ski jackets worn by its announcers, like Jim Nantz. (48 Hours); Backlash: The advocacy group Global Exchange protesting "sweatshop labor" during the opening of the San Francisco Niketown store in February 1997. (Nick Ut/Associated Press); Product misplacement: The bodies of 39 Nike-shod members of the Heaven's Gate cult were found in a suburban San Diego mansion following a mass suicide in March 1997. (Nicolas Cornet); More product misplacement: A Mao- and Nike-clad protester burning an American flag during a 1997 May Day demonstration in Mexico City. (Dario Lopez Mills/Associated Press); The making of a swoosh: At the Huy Hoan factory in Vietnam, 4,000 workers make Nike and Adidas garments for an average monthly wage of $30. Nike uses 500,000 overseas workers. (Ben Margot/Associated Press); At Nike's Beaverton, Ore., campus, a mouse pad bears a nurturing message. (Lauren Greenfield/Sygma, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (96%); KO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (96%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (96%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (96%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (96%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); VIET NAM (59%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC NIKE INC (96%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (59%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIKE INC GLOBAL EXCHANGE (59%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); VIET NAM (59%); OREGON, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: SHOES AND BOOTS; LABOR; COMPANY REPORTS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS CULTS & SECTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (76%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (76%); WINTER SPORTS (74%); WINTER OLYMPICS (74%); RUNNING (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); SUICIDE (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (69%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (66%); BRAND EQUITY (65%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (60%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY ORENTHAL JAMES 'O J' SIMPSON (56%); PHILIP H 'PHIL' KNIGHT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



331 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Still Living With '68

 BODY:
Mark Lilla's essay "Still Living With '68" (Aug. 16), which pretends to be a comparison of the nature of the 1968 rebellions in Europe and the United States, turns out to be a somewhat smothered cry of complaint about the now commonplace bogeys of the right wing: the depredations of feminism, ethnic-identity politics and the so-called "culture wars." He plays the usual game of blaming what he calls joylessly militant feminists for "questioning the naturalness of the family" and "upsetting the psychologically delicate ritual of seduction."
In the last 30 years, as throughout our history, the most powerful force in transforming American life has been our capitalist economy, unrestrained by the aristocratic and hierarchical traditions of Europe. The extreme pressures on the family and the continued destruction of local community are much more the result of changes in the economy that demand increasing mobility, two-income families and female participation in the labor force than of feminist ideology. 
 Lilla also ignores the rise to economic and cultural dominance of television and the popular-entertainment industry, which began in the 1950's but matured in the 1960's, to forever transform the valences of American life. This overthrow of the cultural hierarchy Americans inherited from Europe, in which classical music, fine art and serious literature stood at the top, has had profound consequences -- some good, some bad -- in all arenas of America life, including those of politics and the family.
 
Sarah E. Murray
Oakland, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POLITICS (76%); ETHNICITY (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); 

PERSON: LILLA, MARK; MURRAY, SARAH E MARK LILLA (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



332 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 20; Column 5; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: The Beige And the Black

 BODY:
If the price blacks have to pay to have greater economic equality in America is to become beige, some of us might just want to forfeit the climb to financial bliss ("The Beige and the Black," by Michael Lind, Aug. 16). Strengthening the power of the black family to have access to greater social and economic opportunities should be the impetus for integration rather than for an end to race itself.
 
Mona Rigaud
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MARRIAGES; BLACKS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) AFRICAN AMERICANS (88%); ASIAN AMERICANS (86%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (85%); TRENDS (83%); 

PERSON: RIGAUD, MONA MONA RIGAUD NEW YORK (67%); MICHAEL LIND (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



333 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 4; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Stratford Rethinks Its Base

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE 

 BODY:
THE past has taken on the nostalgic glow of the good old days in Stratford, when the military contractors and manufacturing provided prosperityand a stable tax base, and commerce thrived without the town government's help.
Lately, as in many other older communities, that glow has become a fading memory. The loss of some of its major industrial taxpayers in the past decade, particularly the closing of a large tank engine plant by the Army, and the difficulty of attracting new businesses, have left the town with something of an identity crisis. 
 Earlier this year, Stratford's Town Council convened an economic development task force of government officials, business people and civic leaders to make recommendations for improving the situation.
Acting on one of the primary recommendations of the group, the Town Council decided to sponsor a retreat next month in which an invited cross section of the community will attempt to create an economic development plan for the future.
"We have to decide what exactly are we looking for in this town," said Debbie Rose, the chairwoman of the Town Council. She said the town must come to a consensus about what it wants its economic focus to be: on high-tech manufacturing, tourism, or perhaps other industries.
"We lived in Oz for a long time," Ms. Rose said. The Sikorsky helicopter plant in the north end of town and the equally large plant where the turbine engines for the M-1 tank, America's main battle tank, in the south end, provided thousands of skilled jobs and millions of dollars in tax revenue for the town. "That's how we rolled along for many years," she said.
Then the cold war ended, the Federal military budget was pared, and the tank engine plant, which had been bought by the Allied-Signal Corporation, was included in the country's military cutbacks. Today, the enormous complex is vacant except for a skeleton crew of Army personnel who maintain it. "We were just left with reality, that things just wouldn't be the same," Ms. Rose said.
Meanwhile, Stratford has watched the adjacent city of Shelton undergo an economic development boom. Office buildings, light industry and dozens of major retailers sprang up along Shelton's central corridor.
Last fall, graduate marketing students from the University of New Haven conducted a survey of business owners in Stratford. Mary Ann Vlahac, their professor, said the survey results identified some things that business owners were dissatisfied about, such as the difficulty of obtaining permits and a shortage of public parking. More than half of those responding to the survey felt that the town government wasn't "business friendly," and that it needed to improve communication with the business community.
Aware of the complaints, the Town Council appointed the task force to propose a plan for improving the town's economic development, and in June the task force presented its report. Its first recommendation was to develop an economic development plan with participation from government leaders, business representatives, labor unions, civic organizations and private citizens.
The task force also proposed that the town form an independent Economic Development Corporation, increase the municipal economic development staff and streamline the town management structure to attract new businesses and help existing ones to thrive. It said that the redevelopment of the tank engine plant, the American Shakespeare Theater and the town's waterfront should be priorities.
Another proposal, to change the structure of town government and create an elected chief executive officer, attracted much of the attention, however. This was not a recommendation by the task force, but rather a suggestion by one of its members, Dan Jacobs, president of the Stratford Chamber of Commerce. While Mr. Jacobs defends the position of the Chamber, he said he regretted that it has distracted so many people from the task force's recommendations.
Stratford's present government is ineffective for the economic development effort that is needed, say Mr. Jacobs and others. The Town Manager, Mark Barnhart, is an appointed professional administrator, and with 17 department heads reporting to him he has little time to focus on economic development. The town's economic development director spends most of her time on her other role as community development director, and there is no one who is employed full time to work on economic development.
The Town Council is made up of a councilman at large and 10 councilmen elected by district. Since 1921, the councilman at large had always been from the party that held the majority of the district seats, and so was elected as council chairman. But in 1995 Rudolf Weiss, a Republican, was re-elected councilman at large only to find the Democrats holding the majority of the seats, and he was not renamed as chairman. In 1997, the reverse occurred when Kent Miller, a Democrat, won the town-wide councilman seat, but the Republicans held the majority and selected Ms. Rose as chairwoman.
"We don't have a strong chief elected official," said Mr. Weiss, who served as the chairman of the task force. He said that in Shelton and other Connecticut cities that have strong, successful economic development programs, "the chief elected official is a kind of salesman for the town."
Mr. Weiss and Mr. Jacob noted that Mark Lauretti, the Mayor of Shelton, and Joseph P. Ganim, the Mayor of Bridgeport, are not totally preoccupied with day to day administrative matters and are able to represent their cities in person when seeking grant money or meeting with prospective developers.
But Mr. Jacobs said that the proposal that the town needs a chief elected official does not mean it wishes to do away with the professional town manager. He said that the proposal was offered as something the Town Council should consider as an economic development tactic, not as something that required immediate action.
"One of the points that was made throughout by everybody is the town doesn't really have a clear cut vision of itself like, say, Mystic," said Mr. Jacobs. "You look at Mystic and you know exactly what it's about."
Having such an identity, he said, would allow the town to focus on attracting specific industries, assemble parcels of land for development, and create tax incentive zones. For example, Stratford has many printing businesses. If printing were to become a priority industry, the town could advertise its tax incentives in printers' trade journals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FMER (NASDAQ) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (64%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FIRSTMERIT CORP (64%); TOWN COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOWN COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STRATFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (92%); CITIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); COLD WAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); TRENDS (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: MUSANTE, FRED DAN JACOBS (63%); DEBBIE ROSE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



334 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2168 words

HEADLINE: From Bust to Boom: A Deeper, Stronger Economy

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
FOR a long view of the Long Island economy, there is Alan Fortunoff, patriarch of the Island's best-known retailing family, who made his oversized imprint on the suburban business landscape when he opened the huge Fortunoff store in Westbury in 1964.
The store quickly became a fixture on Long Island, its success fueled by the region's defense industry and the high-paying jobs it created. But by the 1980's, Mr. Fortunoff said, "all of us were fearful" of the wrenching decline in the industry, dominated by the Grumman Corporation. The Island, it seemed, had been an economic house of cards, falling apart as military spending shrank. 
 But perhaps no business enterprise better reflects the sweeping recovery that has propelled Long Island since the mid-1990's than Mr. Fortunoff's.
His Westbury store, which suffered along with the rest of the Island during the recession, is now part of a 40-store mall, which he opened in September. What stood for 33 years as simply Fortunoff's is now part of "The Mall at the Source," with large outlets of Old Navy, Virgin Records, and the Rainforest Cafe attracting shoppers from the Island's newly emergent cadre of software designers, biochemical engineers and high technology workers.
"It turns out that we haven't lost high-paying jobs, they have just changed sectors," Mr. Fortunoff said. "I can't point to one catalyst, but the void left by the defense industry has been filled."
So much so that factories, warehouses and office buildings that stood vacant 10 years ago -- the ballast of both defense cuts and overbuilding -- are now full, and rents are rising. Home prices, already lofty compared to most of the nation's affluent suburban areas, are soaring.
And demand for workers, which sank into a deep trough in 1992 when the island's unemployment rate reached 8.3 percent, is now so intense that some employers are turning desperate. State figures for July, the most recent available, show an unemployment rate of 3.3 percent for the entire island and a hair-thin 2.7 percent for Nassau County.
Mr. Fortunoff, who built his new mall in a partnership with Simon DeBartolo, one of the nation's largest retail developers, has adopted a particularly aggressive recruiting tactic: he will pay a $200 bounty to any of his college-age employees who bring in another, providing the new hire stays on the job for 90 days.
"The labor shortage has extended from high-tech to low-tech companies," he said. "It makes things difficult for us, but it is also wonderful to think that almost any kid who needs a job can find one."
For residents and business people across Long Island, the robust economic recovery may have seemed overdue, particularly since the Island -- more than any other part of the New York metropolitan region -- had for decades been insulated from recession because of the defense industry.
But by the end of the 1980's, people on the Island might have felt that the collapse of the stock market was only adding insult to injury, because the defense industry had already begun to suffer steep cuts. It was a double-barreled shot that will not soon be forgotten.
"I don't know that things actually got worse for Long Island than they did anywhere else, but it sure seemed like our recovery took a long time in coming," said Brent Harding, a sales associate at Robert Harding Real Estate in Port Washington. Home prices in his town, like elsewhere on the Island, fell in the early 1990's, and he said that as recently as a year ago some houses were languishing on the market for months.
But for home sellers, as for almost everyone else on the Island, the gradual recovery has suddenly turned into a boom over the last year.
"This economy has caught fire," said Pearl Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business group. Although signs of resurgence began appearing by 1995, she said the Long Island economy has expanded at its fastest pace over the last year, propelled by high employment, rising income levels among residents and surging levels of spending at retail malls, in the real estate market and among visitors to the Hamptons, Fire Island and other resort areas.
In a milestone recorded by several economists, the Island this year finally regained all of the 88,500 jobs it lost in the recession that lasted from 1989 through 1992, with 24,500 of the new jobs created over the last 12 months. Despite earlier fears that Long Island's recession had been worse and would last longer than elsewhere in the New York region, the Island is now outpacing almost all other parts of the region, including New York City, in job growth.
Experts say the recovery is both robust and diverse. Although not without points of vulnerability, including the potential damage of a downturn on Wall Street or in the Island's rapidly expanding trade in foreign exports, they said the demise of the defense industry has led to a more varied and resilient economic foundation.
"The legacy of the defense industry has in fact been very helpful to Long Island because it has left us with a reservoir of skills that are useful in other industries," Ms. Kamer said.
Gary Huth, Long Island labor market analyst for the New York State Department of Labor, said the technical qualifications that were required for many of the lost defense jobs were so high that they met immediate demand in other fields.
"It is one thing to have thousands of people displaced from routine assembly-line work, but something very different happened here," he said. "Working in defense electronics didn't mean wiring electric sockets, it meant dealing with advanced aircraft systems. This led to easy transitions, and I think a lot of people underestimated the entrepreneurial zeal of these workers."
The defense industry spillover is apparent among several of the Island's fastest-growing companies, including high-technology firms like Computer Associates of Islandia and Symbol Technologies of Holtsville, which have employed many engineers and scientists who had honed their skills in the defense industry.
And the newly diverse economy has provided jobs for displaced workers without lofty scientific credentials, although some at lower salaries. In what she called a "sign of a more cyclically stable labor force," Ms. Kamer said a third of the Island's work force is employed in service industry jobs -- a sector that ranges from management consulting to clerical work -- compared to 25 percent a decade ago.
Still, amid the promise of an ebullient and more secure economic mix, Long Island is confronting growing pains and constraints on its growth that are inherent in both its infrastructure and geography as a 110-mile-long island cut off by water on three sides, and by the urban behemoth of New York City on the other.
One deeply rooted problem is its cost of electricity, until this year the highest in the continental United States. Combined with the costs of gasoline or commuter rail tickets, lofty property and school taxes, electrical bills have long been a source of consternation for both residents and business owners.
But some long-awaited relief has come since the state takeover of the Long Island Lighting Company in May produced a 20 percent rate reduction for at least five years.
Although such savings are hardly enough to allow much change in the financial plans or spending habits of most residents, some experts suggest that the reduction may have a broader psychological impact by bolstering confidence that an economic problem once thought to be intractable has been brought more closely under control.
"It gives business a sense that their needs are being addressed and that they can look down the road with some sense of security, at least for five years," Mr. Huth said. For homeowners, "it has a wider meaning than just a few dollars of savings, since it affects something that was just considered a burden to bear."
To be sure, not all residents are counting on the state-designed electric rate reduction to be a permanent solution, and some suggest that it rests more on politics than sound financial planning. That is because the rate cuts are being made possible through a package of state subsidies, which are in turn being paid for through increased state borrowing.
"Sure, people are happy to see the bills of Mom and Pop's business go down, but there is still a lot of mistrust," said Dr. Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. "The cynical view is that this state support is simply a way of bribing voters, and if rates start to creep up after the next election, that cynicism will increase exponentially."
Business executives, economists and planners say the current surge of economic expansion has underscored its longstanding problems of traffic congestion. Although the Island's huge grid of expressways and commuter rail lines provides one of the world's best systems of private and public transportation to and from a major city, its shortcoming is its paucity of transportation links to the hubs of employment on the Island itself.
Nor are its roads and rail lines sufficient to provide the kind of access to jobs that might be filled by people living elsewhere in the New York region. Combined with the high cost of housing, which discourages new residents, that means Long Island's labor shortage may be an intractable drag on further growth, the experts said.
Still, executives like Mr. Fortunoff and economists like Ms. Kamer say worries about whether there will be enough workers to meet Long Island's resurgent demand miss a key point. The most positive evidence about the Island's economy suggests little threat of a sudden downturn, they say, even if the current pace of expansion cannot be sustained.
Such evidence underscores the deeply rooted shifts that have taken place over five years or less, having more to do with economic diversity than with rising profits or employment levels.
Among this evidence, according to a recent study by Ms. Kamer, is the Island's emergence as a formidable participant in global trade. In place of its defense industry, she said its base of entrepreneurial companies has quickly forged a thriving business in exports of computer equipment and services, high-technology consulting and other products.
Although government data that tracks such exports lags far behind that on employment and some other indicators -- the most recent data for Long Island exports is for 1996 -- it shows a sharp upswing, even as exports from the rest of New York State had declined. From 1993 to 1996, Ms. Kamer said, the value of the Island's annual exports swelled from $2.8 billion to $3.68 billion, while the total of the state's exports fell from $28.19 billion to $27.97 billion.
The time lag in such government record-keeping means that the impact of the sharp economic downturn in Asia, and its affect on Long Island exporters, is hard to measure. For some, the Asian problems have clearly hurt: Ms. Kamer pointed to a 25 percent reduction in this year's second-quarter profits at Arrow Electronics, a fast-growing company in Melville, and a warning of slower profit growth by Computer Associates, with both companies blaming the Asian downturn.
But compared to some other national hubs of export activity, Long Island for now appears on firmer footing, her research showed. That is because less than 20 percent of its exports are destined for the Far East, according to the 1996 data, with by far the biggest share going to the more stable economies, including those in Canada and Europe.
Other evidence of stability for the Island can be found in office vacancy rates, which rose to above 20 percent at the height of the recession in 1992. That high level, creating huge losses for developers and property owners, was attributed to a wave of speculative, high-risk office construction fueled by the financial euphoria of the late 1980's.
Now, real estate executives say, fresh memories of financial ruin have discouraged banks from lending and developers from building. With little new construction, office vacancy rates have remained low.
"We are seeing a mini-boom in leasing activity, and the speculative building will start sprouting up," said Joann Saul, manager of research for Cushman and Wakefield of Long Island, a commercial brokerage, referring to developers putting up buildings before having commitments from tenants.
Her company's records show the vacancy rate for the Island had fallen to slightly under 11 percent by the end of last year and has remained roughly unchanged since then.
But while the commercial real estate market is stable, home sales have surged in a wave of price increases and bidding wars that brokers say reflect the sharpest upturn in memory.
"I don't think we have ever had so much competition among buyers," Mr. Harding of Robert Harding Real Estate said. "We have really come back strong, and I see no signs of things slowing down."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Signs of the strong economy are all around the Island. Malls, including Roosevelt Field, left, are crowded and highways are packed, top. At right, a food plant is going up at the Grumman site in Bethpage. (Photographs for The New York Times by Barbara Alper (left), George M. Gutierrez (top), and Maxine Hicks.)(pg. 1); Workers preparing the foundation for the Goya food plant that is being built on the old Grumman site in Bethpage. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 
Graph: "Turnaround Time"
A statistical look at the economies of Nassau and Suffolk Counties. The graph shows that more are working, unemployment is down, as are office vacancies, and exports are on the rise. (Source: Pearl Kamer; Long Island Assoc.; Cushman & Wakefield; New York State Deptartment of Labor; U.S. Department of Commerce)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (71%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (71%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (71%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (71%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (71%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORTUNOFF'S NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORTUNOFF'S US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); SUBURBS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (76%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); TRENDS (70%); HOME PRICES (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (65%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (65%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J ALAN FORTUNOFF (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



335 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 10; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: THE GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:

45 Prendergasts on View
Forty-five works by Maurice Prendergast, selected from a collection given to the Williams College Museum of Art by members of his family, go on display today through next Jan. 3 at the Neuberger Museum of Art at Purchase College. 
 These are not the works that made the artist one of the early 20th-century icons of American Impressionism, but they constitute an intimate and insightful cache. Among the oils, watercolors, drawings, pastels and monotypes are abandoned sketches, drawings of works in progress, paintings that no one ever bought and paintings that Prendergast kept for himself.
His entrance into the world of art was almost short-circuited by his family's financial troubles, forcing him to leave school after the eighth grade. Oddly enough, his employment as a clerk in a dry goods store was where his sense of color, line and composition first developed in the sketches he drew for women's dresses.
From there he moved into commercial art, earning enough to study in Paris and return to the United States, where he quickly established a following in Boston, New York and Philadelphia.
A discussion of the works in the exhibition will be conducted today at 3 P.M. by Nancy Mowll Mathews, curator of the Williams College collection. Admission to the lecture is $6, and a donation of $4 is requested for museum admission, with discounts available.
The campus is on Anderson Hill Road. For lecture reservations, call 251-6103.
 
Avant-Garde Films
A series of 20th-century avant-garde films will be screened at the Neuberger Museum over the next few weeks. The first batch of four 7- to 15-minute films made in the 1920's is scheduled for Wednesday, beginning with "Return to Reason," Man Ray's negative silhouettes of nails, string, salt, springs and other materials placed on unexposed film. Second, "Emak Bakia" reveals Ray's early Dadaist affiliations, and "An Andalusian Dog" by Salvador Dali and Luis Bunuel is a Surrealist work supposedly created in the subconscious minds of the two men. "Anemic Cinema" by Marcel Duchamp is a succession of visual and verbal puns in the Dada mode.
Three films produced by Maya Deren in the 1940's will be shown on Sept. 23, and the final program of three films from the 50's and 60's will be presented on Oct. 7.
Greg Taylor and Iris Cahn of Purchase College's Theater Arts and Film faculty will introduce each session at 7 P.M. in the Museum Study. Admission will be $4 a session with discounts available. Call 251-6100 for more information.
 
A Jay Project Milestone
A 10-year multimillion dollar outbuildings restoration project under way for the last three years at the John Jay Homestead in Katonah, is approaching its first milestone -- the completion of work on the main barn.
In celebration, the Friends of the Homestead will hold a country fair next weekend, from which it hopes to raise more funds to help with restoring the 1812 carriage barn as a carriage and riding museum, and the late 18th-century farm manager's cottage as a small house museum. The main barn is to become a farm museum and venue for special events. Four thousand people who visited last year's fair, including patrons who attended an invitation-only party, put a total of $25,000 in the restoration kitty.
Next Saturday and Sunday from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. the Jay house, on a 64-acre State Historic Site, will be open for tours. Next Sunday from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. the fair will be in progress, offering a wide array of diversions, from hayrides and pony rides to magicians and storytellers, beekeeping and falconry demonstrations, blacksmithing and pottery making, two Russian circus performers and a troupe of Morris dancers.
The homestead's importance is in its history, which began in 1801 when John Jay, first Chief Justice of the United States and one of America's founders, retired with his family to what was then a simple farmhouse, which he proceeded to remodel. It stayed in the Jay family until the 1950's, becoming larger and more elegant with each generational addition and renovation.
It is on Route 22, three miles north of Bedford Village, and admission will be $15 a car, no matter how many passengers. Call 232-5651 for more information.
 
Trout Unlimited Meeting
The first meeting of the season for the Croton Watershed Chapter of Trout Unlimited will take place on Tuesday at 7:30 P.M., at the Fox Lane Middle School, Route 172 in Mount Kisco.
As it does each year, the chapter devotes this gathering to tall tales of fishing since the last meeting in May. Members and guests can bring in slides of their fishing expeditions, and they can stretch the catch by up to four inches a trout without so much as a catcall from the group. Fly-tiers will be present to give expert demonstrations, and coffee and doughnuts will be served.
Trout Unlimited is a national nonprofit organization dedicated to being a watchdog of the reservoir systems and the ecological health of streams and waterways for their fishing potential. The chapter meets for fishing- and fly-tying-related lectures and special programs on the third Tuesday of each month from September through May. For more information, call 946-7161.
 
Wide-Screen Videos
Three presentations of high-definition wide-screen video will be screened today by Cine Muse at the Philipstown Depot Theater in Garrison's Landing. Audiences will have an opportunity to check out the distributor's claim that detail and color are five times greater than conventional video.
A double bill for children at noon and 3 P.M. features "Anansi," which will be narrated by Denzel Washington and will have music by UB-40, and "Puss in Boots," narrated by Tracy Ullman with music by Luc Ponty.
Additional programs at 5 and 7 P.M. are more suitable for adults. "Henri Matisse and Midi" and "Paul Cezanne: A Life in Provence" examine the artists' lives and work in half-hour segments.
At 7 P.M. "Broadway Remembers" begins at Bowling Green and ends in Washington Heights with stops along the way for visits with Ed Koch, Donald Trump, street performers and others.
Tickets are $6, $3 for children. There are two numbers to call for reservations, directions or more information. They are 424-3900 or 424-3960.
 
Mushroom Walk
Don Shernoff, vice president of the Connecticut Mycological Association and an old hand at mushroom walks and talks, will conduct a program at the Greenburgh Nature Center today at 2 P.M.
Before going out to explore the center's trails, everyone will gather in the manor house where Mr. Shernoff will present a large collection of recently gathered mushrooms and fungi of the edible and poisonous kinds. He encourages his audiences to bring in specimens found in their backyards and neighborhoods for identification as well.
The center is on Dromore Road off Central Avenue in the Scarsdale section of Greenburgh.
The $4 fee includes admission to the museum. Call 723-3470 for more information. ELEANOR CHARLES

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Lady With Red Cape and Muff," circa 1900, by Maurice Prendergast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EMAK (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EMAK WORLDWIDE INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FILM (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (54%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR JOHN JAY HOMESTEAD (82%); MAURICE PRENDERGAST (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



336 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/50th Street from Broadway to Seventh Avenue;
Once the Home of Horses, Now the Home of 'Cats'

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
BEFORE the old Times Tower or the Astor Hotel, before the theaters, the nightclubs or the peep shows, when it was not Times Square but Longacre Square, the area north of 42d Street was the horse center of New York City. Now, more than a century after it was built, the last vestiges of the American Horse Exchange, which became part of the Winter Garden Theater between 50th and 51st Street from Broadway to Seventh Avenue, may soon disappear.
Light industry settled along the slice of Broadway north of 42d Street in the 1860's, and by the 1870's wagon factories, harness shops and horse dealers concentrated in the area, named Longacre after the carriage district in London. 
 In 1881 William K. Vanderbilt and a group of investors built the area's biggest building, the American Horse Exchange, on the blockfront of 50th Street from Broadway to Seventh Avenue, stretching most of the way up to 51st Street. Vanderbilt's associates included leading millionaire-horsemen like William Jay, George Wetmore and Frederic Bronson -- "gentlemen of vast means," as they were called by The New York Times in 1894, to whom profits were "of no consequence."
They wanted only that the exchange be self-sustaining, that it provide a scrupulously reliable center for thoroughbred horse trading. Period accounts made it clear that there were plenty of lemons in the equestrian market.
The Times quoted auction fees ranging from $5 a head on horses costing under $300 to 5 percent on those over $1,000, and said that the two-story brick building was "the safest in the city."
But in 1896 fire swept though the American Horse Exchange, almost leveling it and killing about 60 of the 265 horses stabled there, the property of owners and dealers from as far away as Chicago, Michigan and Kentucky. Six thousand people crowded around the blazing building, sometimes blocking horses from escaping. The New York Times said that, through the windows, "crazed animals could be seen dashing blindly about in their terror." Loose horses were recovered from all over midtown.
Vanderbilt reconstructed the American Horse Exchange in 1897. His architect, A. V. Porter, reused a portion of the surviving walls to create a two-, three- and four-story structure with a high covered ring 160 by 80 feet, bridged by open trusswork and with perimeter walls of brick with round-arched windows. In the opening exhibit, Chester, a brown gelding owned by Adelaide Doremus, won in the category of best saddle horse.
Automobiles became familiar on city streets just after 1900, but in 1906 The New York Tribune derided the "totally erroneous impression that the horse is going out of fashion," pointing out that Americans owned $1.2 billion worth of horses -- 17 million animals as opposed to the 14 million of 1890. The Tribune confidently predicted a very long wait for "the funeral rites of genus equus."
BUT automobiles became increasingly popular, especially to the elite served by the American Horse Exchange. In 1910 the Vanderbilt group leased the entire site to Lee and J. J. Shubert for another theater in the Shuberts' growing chain. The Times remarked that this would "remove the last notable landmark of the old horse and carriage trade" and that, even then, the recently arrived automobile dealers were being pushed farther north by theater and hotel construction. Longacre Square had been renamed Times Square in 1904.
The Shuberts were economical, reusing much of the original perimeter walls of the American Horse Exchange and apparently using the riding-ring trusswork for the theater auditorium. They put a new temple-style front on Broadway and, at the 50th Street corner, a three-story nightclub space that extended back behind the old walls to 50th and Seventh. Their architect was W. Albert Swasey. Research by the Landmarks Preservation Commission indicates that Al Jolson made his Broadway debut in the opening theater production in 1911, "La Belle Paree."
According to Maryann Chach, archivist at the Shubert Archive, the first nightclub to open in the corner building was Palais de Danse, followed by the Montmartre, the Plantation Club, the Singapore and, by the 1950's, the Hawaii Kai restaurant.
Early photographs indicate that by the 1930's the theater facade was already covered with enormous signs, a tradition that continues today with the billboard for "Cats," which opened in 1982 and is the longest-running show in Broadway history.
Hawaii Kai closed about a decade ago, and the Shubert Organization kept the space vacant. "Times Square really hadn't turned around until three years ago," says Jeffrey S. Davis, assistant facilities director for the owner. Now that it has, he says, they are seeking a new tenant for the 12,000-square-foot space, one that would invest at least $1 million in renovation.
Such a renovation would most probably eliminate the multiple layers of history on the upper floors: Sections of the 1890's trusswork and round-arched windows, a 1910's lightbulb-studded skylight and the 1950's grasscloth wall coverings. Mr. Davis said he hoped for an agreement with a tenant this fall. Last year the Shubert Organization refaced the former Horse Exchange's 50th Street front in new brown brick, cool and reserved, in a design by Menz & Cook.
One thing that is to happen before the end of the year is the completion of the new brick facade on the Seventh Avenue side. Right now, it is an architectural leftover, with the old doors and windows of the American Horse Exchange, until now a most peculiar survivor in the new Times Square.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The American Horse Exchange, on Broadway between 50th and 51st Streets, above, circa 1910. (Office for Metropolitan History); Part of it incorporated into the Winter Garden, left, where "Cats" opened in 1982, is soon to get a partially new facade. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CATS (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HORSE EXCHANGE (DEFUNCT) AMERICAN HORSE EXCHANGE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HORSE EXCHANGE (DEFUNCT) AMERICAN HORSE EXCHANGE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: WINTER GARDEN THEATER (NYC); THEATERS (BUILDINGS); THEATER HORSES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); FIRES (63%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER WILLIAM K VANDERBILT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



337 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
For Affluent Elderly, an Array of Housing Choices

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
SATISFYING the needs and desires of America's increasingly large elderly population has become a hot new market for builders. Diverse requirements for people aged 55 and older, in various states of physical and financial health, have produced a profitable alliance between developers and health service providers, and a bewildering array of choices for customers.
One way of defining the choices available is in terms of need for assistance. Those who qualify for so-called independent living accommodations require no assistance at all with normal activities; others who have to be helped with dressing, bathing, and medication schedules fit into the assisted-living category. Still others need acute medical monitoring and treatment that have to be provided by a licensed skilled nursing unit. 
 Developers are designing and constructing the buildings to whatever level of luxury the traffic will bear. That includes everything from libraries to swimming pools, cocktail lounges and saunas. But when they offer lifelong care they are required to provide a variety of licensed health services, on call or in-house, that varies from state to state.
For Connecticut's substantial segment of wealthy older citizens, a smorgasbord of alternatives is filling a gap that resulted in part from a 1993 state-mandated moratorium on the construction of nursing homes. Intended to reduce Connecticut's Medicaid liability, the measure is still in effect, causing long waiting lists in many places.
Affluent older residents, glad to be rid of the burden of maintaining a large family home, are signing up for alternatives like 1,500-square-foot apartments that can cost half a million dollars, plus monthly charges that may reach $36,000 a year. In exchange they are assured of continuing care for the rest of their lives, and the reimbursement of 90 percent of the purchase price when the unit is resold after they leave or die.
Rentals in assisted-living residences range from about $2,700 to more than $4,000 a month for units of 350 to 750 square feet.
The high cost "is still much less than a private room in a nursing home at $10,000 a month," said Suzanne van Vechten, Director of Social Services in Wilton, where three proposals are under consideration.
Some town planners say that more projects are being proposed than can be absorbed, with some finding acceptance, and others fighting an uphill battle against zoning regulations and local opposition.
Brighton Gardens, an assisted-living prototype by the Marriott International hotel chain, was recently rejected in Greenwich, as was a complex by National Assisted Living. Both were planned for King Street, where there are no sewers or public water lines. When Carematrix, a Needham, Mass., developer, made an application on River Road in the Cos Cob section of Greenwich, the Planning and Zoning Commission decided the proposed facility had too many units. The commission, however, invited Carematrix to return after making suitable adjustments.
BUT when Greenwich planners tried to formulate townwide regulations for assisted living in order to give further consideration to these proposals, the 230-member Representative Town Meeting sent a negative Sense of the Meeting Resolution to the Planning and Zoning Commission. "The message was, 'We like assisted living, but not this way,' " said Diane Fox, the Town Planner. "There are no guidelines and no ideas about passing new ones."
David Reis, a North Branford developer who spent three years overcoming opposition to his life-care project in Redding, said, "Towns only have regulations that allow nursing homes, not assisted living." His $100 million development, called Meadow Ridge in Redding, finally was approved and has begun construction on 36 acres. Eventually to contain 382 units, it is scheduled to open in 2000 with 228 one- and two-bedroom independent living apartments of 1,000 to 1,500 square feet that will cost $360,000 to $450,000. Monthly charges of $1,800 cover housekeeping, utilities, swimming pool, dining room meals, shops and other amenities.
Brighton Gardens communities, which are rentals, have been approved for construction in West Hartford and Woodbridge, and one with 125 units has been open in Stamford for six months. Five levels of care are offered, plus a special center for residents with early to mid-stage Alzheimer's, a component that many developers are adding to their plans.
Assisted-living fees are $2,870 to $3,420 a month for studios, $3,570 to $4,000 for 1-bedroom apartments, and $500 for an additional person. Prices increase by $350 a month as levels of care rise according to the resident's needs. Monthly fees for Alzheimer's care are $3,800 for a semiprivate suite and $4,370 to $4,670 for a private suite.
Edgehill, Marriott's top-of-the-line life-care model, under construction at 2015 West Main Street in Stamford, charges entrance fees of $225,000 to $710,000. Applicants have to qualify financially and they have to be capable of independent living if they are admitted at the minimum age of 62. Monthly charges range from $1,950 to $4,000, and include 25 meals a month, housekeeping services, cocktail parties, swimming pool, billiard room, ballroom with a stage, and a health club. Edgehill is scheduled to open in the spring of next year, and binders have been taken for 198 of its 207 apartments.
Residents of Wilton opposed a Marriott application for a Brighton Gardens so strongly that the company withdrew the proposal. "Our regulations only permit that type of use on Route 7, River Road and Route 33," said the Town Planner, Wendy Johnson. The site, at the intersection of Range and Wolfpit Roads, drew criticism from a number of residents, among them Barbara Kukowski, a Range Road resident. "No one objects to senior citizen housing," she said, "but it should not be placed in a one-acre residential zone. People are afraid of impacting property values, and increased traffic."
Ms. Johnson said, "There are no plans to alter our 1996 Plan of Development," which would rule out such a facility at the Range Road site.
A proposal by Sunrise Assisted Living of Fairfax, Va., for 65 units on a five-acre site along Route 7 is within zoning regulations for density and land use, and has been approved by the Wilton Wetlands Commission, but it still has to pass muster on drainage, grading, lighting, parking and impact on the neighborhood at the commission's meeting tomorrow.
THE average age of assisted-living residents nationwide is 82 and the average stay is two years, according to John Noone, vice-president of development at Sunrise.
Manor Care of Gaithersburg, Md., proposed one of its Arden Court residences, which are solely for early and mid-stage Alzheimer's patients, on Route 1. It was approved by the Wilton Wetlands Commission and comes up for a vote at the same meeting tomorrow. "The Planning and Zoning Commission has reached a consensus to deny it," Ms. Johnson said. She cited unmet parking requirements and added that the town's regulations for congregate housing, under which the application was made, do not cover Alzheimer's units.
Other Arden Court facilities are currently being built in Farmington and Hamden.
The Greens in Wilton, built and operated by Transcon Builders of Cleveland, opened this April and is two-thirds occupied. Its residents have priority in moving to the company's existing Wilton Meadows Nursing Home next door. Primarily a nursing home builder, Transcom has nursing homes in Hamden and in Greenwich, where it is doing what many such companies are doing -- building assisted-living wings onto their nursing homes.
Arguably the most ambitious project in the state so far -- a 1,000-unit proposal in Monroe by Senior Campus Living of Baltimore, "doesn't fit into any of our regulations," said Dan Tuba, Monroe's Town Planner. "We are not sewered," he said.
Wayne M. Rush, Senior Campus Living's development director, noting that his company's application included a request that Monroe change its zoning regulations, said: "We are waiting for the Monroe Planning and Zoning Commission to consider our application. If it comes to a reduction in size, we wouldn't be interested. When you get to 1,000 to 2,000 units there is an economy of scale that allows us to deliver a certain level of quality."
Monroe has, however, granted approval for an independent- and assisted-living project of 140 units on 22 acres to J K Keillor Land Engineering Associates, a local builder. "They will run in the $170,000 range," Mr. Tuba said, "but the developer is looking for somebody to manage and operate it."
At public hearings, he said, there was little interest one way or another, except for one person who worried that too many older people might create a voting bloc that would be unwilling to approve school budgets.
It is generally acknowledged that Connecticut has awakened late to the assisted-living trend, and an attempt is being made by the legislature to catch up. At its last session, the General Assembly passed an Act Concerning an Assisted Living Demonstration Project. It clears the way for a pilot project of three identical assisted-living complexes of 100 units each to be built in urban areas, aimed at Medicaid-eligible people.
"We came to the realization that we no longer have the luxury of an all or nothing philosophy -- you can stay home or go into a nursing home," said Mark Ryan, Deputy Secretary of Connecticut's Office of Policy and Management.
Requests will be made for proposals from developers, and annual appropriations are expected to become available after July 1999. This money, per project, includes $5 million for Medicaid services of which half would be reimbursed by the Federal government; $1 million additionally for debt service on construction-renovation costs of $12 million, and $1.8 million more for rent subsidies.
"Next we hope to reach low middle-income people," Mr. Ryan said, "but middle-income will be in limbo for a while. Our challenge is to convince the legislature to subsidize them. It's less expensive than having them spend down their funds and go on Medicaid."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brighton Gardens assisted-living complex in Stamford has been open for six months. But Greenwich recently rejected a similar community. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (80%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (80%); MEDICAID (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AGED REAL ESTATE (90%); AGING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); AGING TRENDS (89%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (89%); ZONING (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICAID (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); HOTEL CHAINS (60%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



338 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Ms. Honeycutt, Mr. DeScherer

 BODY:
Amanda Ann Honeycutt, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Honeycutt of Dunn, N.C., was married yesterday to Christopher Kaltman DeScherer, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Richard K. DeScherer of New York. The Rev. Carl Butts, an uncle of the bride and a Baptist minister, performed the ceremony at the Inn at Bingham School, a bed and breakfast in Mebane, N.C.
Ms. Honeycutt, 29, is keeping her name. She is an economist at the Research Triangle Institute in Research Triangle Park, N.C. She graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and received master's and Ph.D. degrees in economics from the University of Maryland. Her father is a salesman at Bemco Sleep Products, a mattress wholesaler in Dunn. Her mother, Betty Honeycutt, is an employee trainer for Sprint, the telephone company. 
 Mr. DeScherer, 27, was until July an associate at Cahill, Gordon & Reindel, a New York law firm. He is a legal consultant in Raleigh, N.C., to the Environmental Defense Fund. He graduated from the University of Virginia and received a law degree from Georgetown University. His father is a senior partner in Willkie Farr & Gallagher, the New York law firm.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Don Roberts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (91%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CAHILL GORDON & REINDEL LLP (83%); WILLKIE FARR & GALLAGHER LLP (83%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE INSTITUTE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (91%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); LAWYERS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (71%); FURNITURE & FURNISHINGS WHOLESALERS (53%); 

PERSON: HONEYCUTT, AMANDA ANN; DESCHERER, CHRISTOPHER KALTMAN RICHARD K DESCHERER (91%); ROBERT HONEYCUTT (91%); AMANDA ANN HONEYCUTT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



339 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2719 words

HEADLINE: On the Hudson, a City Within Jersey City

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
PILE DRIVERS pound great beams of steel into the earth and cement trucks pour out their burdens as office and apartment towers keep rising on the Jersey City shore -- particularly on one vast, once-desolate tract called Newport that sparked the riverfront's rebirth.
Where not much more than a decade ago there was a mazelike swath of weeded-over train tracks, lonely freight cars, rotting piers and stilled factories, a budding skyline has emerged along the 7.5-mile Jersey City waterfront. 
 At Newport alone, the 600-acre site is already dotted by seven apartment towers, two office buildings, a three-level mall, an 11-theater movie complex, an international supermarket, 16 restaurants, a helipad and a thickly masted marina -- all embraced by a riverside esplanade. And more buildings are rising.
Construction began in May on a 575,000-square-foot office complex. Ground was broken last month for a 444-unit residential building. Work is to start on a 200-room hotel by the end of October. A retail satellite to the mall is to begin by the end of the year. And construction of another rental building is scheduled for 1999.
When all of that construction is complete, it will constitute about 35 percent of the $10-billion development envisioned in the Newport master plan by the Lefrak Organization and its ebullient 80-year-old chairman, Samuel J. LeFrak.
At the same time, along the rest of the Jersey City shore -- where deep-draft cargo vessels arrive from all over the world and most of the metropolitan area's orphaned cars are barged for future scrapping (albeit having previously been reduced to very compact models) -- the state's tallest office building, 101 Hudson, stands 60 stories high, fresh residences front canals at Port Liberte and piers at Harborside, industrial parks have been cleared, development sites assembled and new construction begun.
A sugar factory is being converted into luxury condominiums. A 41-story office building is going up on the old Colgate toothpaste plant site, near the dockside 25-foot-high Colgate clock. A 26-story apartment building is under construction at the Hudson Exchange development. And old warehouses in the WALDO section -- that's Work and Live District Overlay, in officialese -- are becoming loft-studios for artists.
There remain, to be sure, less glistening facades and not so desirable habitats along many of the older streets of Jersey City, further inland. But there is no denying the burst of economic strength fueled by activity along the river -- and sparked, particularly, by Newport.
"Newport is, by far, the largest project anywhere in the city," said Bret Schundler, the Mayor of Jersey City. "Because it was the first location to enjoy significant development, they really broke the ice for redevelopment of the entire city. And because it is such a massive tract, it makes a huge contribution in terms of jobs and revenues."
Newport is Jersey City's single largest taxpayer, generating $14 million a year in real estate revenues alone.
But that, Mayor Schundler added, "is just in basic terms."
"Additionally, you have the shopping opportunities, the restaurants, the boating," he said. "It adds so many different positive elements to our waterfront" -- all part of the still-realizing dream of Sam LeFrak, the chairman and, at 80, still the eminence of the Lefrak Organization.
Sir Samuel J. LeFrak, the business card he readily proffers proclaims in elegant script, displaying no less than six heraldic coats of arms, ranging from the Knights of Malta Cross to the Order of the Lion of Finland, in raised goldleaf.
"I'm a doctor, too; I have several honorary degrees," he says.
Mr. LeFrak is hardly demure about himself or his accomplishments.
One balmy afternoon last week, standing in the bow of his 94-foot yacht a quarter-mile off Newport, wearing a Panama hat, sunglasses, tan suit and bright orange tie, Mr. LeFrak thrust both arms outward, formed V-for-victory signs with both hands and -- perhaps half-jokingly -- shouted, "We own the river!"
Hyperbolic, perhaps, but there is no minimizing his accomplishments: They are set in concrete. The Lefrak Organization, largely under Samuel LeFrak's four decades of leadership (though the Lefrak Organization uses a lower-case "f" in its name, Sam, who is of French descent, decided to keep the upper-case "F" written by a French-speaking doctor on his birth certificate), has built an estimated 200,000 apartments in the metropolitan area, mostly in classic postwar, six-story brick buildings in Brooklyn and Queens that were given the names of the 50 states and, when those ran out, of Presidents and colleges. But also in larger-scale developments, like Lefrak City in Queens, where 5,000 apartments were built in the early 60's. And at Gateway Plaza in Battery Park City, where 1,800 apartments were created in the early 80's.
"When you cut my vein, concrete comes out," he said last week.
IT was in 1983 that Mr. LeFrak first inspected the Jersey City shore, 1.5 miles of which would eventually become Newport. Richard S. LeFrak, his son, and at 53 the more staid and detail-oriented president of the Lefrak Organization, recalled those days and the effusion that came with another of his father's grand designs.
"Sam went out to visit and came back and said to me, 'Richard, I've been dreaming about something like this my whole life,' " Richard LeFrak said.
"He looked at me like I was crazy," Samuel LeFrak said.
"My father recognized immediately, in terms of its strategic location, its transportation infrastructure, that Newport would have tremendous potential," Richard said.
What the elder LeFrak actually saw was the desolation left by defunct railroads -- "miles of railroad ties and packs of railroad dogs, roaming free," he said.
But in his mind's eye, Mr. LeFrak saw a large tract suitable for mixed-use development: relatively affordable residences, office space at reasonable (compared to Manhattan) per-square-foot rates, readily available retail opportunities, sites for recreation, a PATH station 10 minutes from Manhattan, direct connections to major New Jersey highways and an on-site entrance to the Holland Tunnel -- not to mention the view, especially at sunset.
"I saw the west bank of the Hudson looking on the magnificent facade of the Manhattan skyline," Mr. LeFrak said. "And when the sun set I saw one of the most beautiful views in the world reflecting off that facade."
He was not the first developer to see the site's potential. In fact, two other companies, both with long experience in creating shopping malls, made earlier proposals to the city. And later, at the urging of the first bank to finance the land acquisition, they became partners with the Lefrak Organization in the rebirth of that barren tract of rail yard.
Jersey City's role as a mainland terminus for four of the nation's Northeast rail lines was far in the future on the day in 1630 when the first Dutch settler, Michael Pauw, arrived, said Kenneth French, chief of the Jersey City Public Library's New Jersey Room. Pauw promptly named the area Pavonia, in honor of himself.
Paulus Hook, a peninsula of what would be incorporated as Jersey City in 1838 (and adjacent to Newport), was the site of a significant Revolutionary War battle when, on Aug. 19, 1779, Gen. "Light Horse" Harry Lee, grandfather of Robert E. Lee, ousted the British from their final fortifications in New Jersey.
And during the Civil War, there occurred a rather bizarre turn of events. "About a year before Lincoln was assassinated," said Mr. French, "the President's grown son, Robert, was in Jersey City at the Pennsylvania Railroad terminal and fell onto the tracks as the train was coming. But he was pulled to safety by Edwin Booth, the well known actor and brother of the man who would kill his father a year later."
During the late 1800's and through the first half of this century, the railroads dominated the shoreline -- literally fencing it off from the city -- until containerization made it possible to move shipbound cargo directly onto and from trucks.
The current Hudson County Executive, Robert C. Janiszewski, recalls how, as a 10-year-old boy in the sweltering summers of the late 50's, he would "sneak through little gaps in the fence -- of course, I don't know how those gaps got there -- to cool off in the river."
It was not until the late 70's, after 20 years of bankruptcy proceedings, Mr. Janiszewski said, that the rail yards finally became public property -- "and I didn't have to sneak through the fence anymore."
Richard LeFrak said that "real estate people" had been interested in the property since the early 70's, "but Jersey City in those days was pretty rough, old-style machine politics; a tough town to do business with if you're an outsider."
But by the early 80's, the city was prepared to assist qualified developers in assembling portions of the property. Unlike most urban renewal projects, however, where a municipality buys land, writes down the cost and offers pieces for development, Richard LeFrak said, "Jersey City did not have the resources, so they created a mechanism by which the private developer had to purchase property from the city outright, at market rates."
ORIGINALLY, Mr. LeFrak said, the Glimcher Company, a Columbus, Ohio, developer of more than 100 shopping centers, and Melvin Simon and Associates, now one of the nation's largest real estate investment trusts, planned to develop a regional shopping mall on what would become the Newport site. "There were 600,000 people in Hudson County and they had to travel to Bergen County for their mall experience," he said.
But because the city was requiring retail, office and residential development, Mr. LeFrak said, the Simon and Glimcher companies were "referred to us by Manufacturers Hanover," and the Lefrak Organization became the prime developer.
It took about three years after Samuel LeFrak's initial tour to complete assembling the property. And the final agreement with the city called for a development that, on completion, would include approximately 4.5 million square feet of office space, 9,000 apartments, 2 million square feet of retail, 1,200 hotel rooms, a helipad and a marina. Newport constitutes all the land between Hoboken on the north and Sixth Street on the south, the river to the east and Luis Munoz-Marin Boulevard on the west.
"It's all privately financed, a variety of banks and insurance companies," Richard LeFrak said. "The most interesting thing is that we received no help on the infrastructure from the municipality. We had to build all the roads, the sewers from scratch."
"The original financing from Manufacturers Hanover was to buy the property and also finance the mall," Mr. LeFrak continued. "That was in excess of $200 million."
The Newport Center Mall, developed in conjunction with the Simon organization, is 1 million square feet of retail space, including 165 shops and three anchor tenants, Sears, J. C. Penney and Stern's; an 11-theater Cineplex Odeon complex and 5,000 parking spaces. It opened in October of 1987. And on a recent weekday, it was bustling.
Simultaneously, the LeFraks developed the first 1,500 rental apartments -- financed by $135 million in Federal Housing Administration, market-rate insured bonds issued by the New Jersey Housing Finance Agency. "So the first phase was about $350 million," Mr. LeFrak said.
In 1988, the Lefrak Organization broke ground on two additional buildings -- a 450-unit condominium, the James Monroe, and a 475,000-square-foot office building, the Newport Financial Center. The condominium building was financed by Citibank at about $60 million.
About 80 percent of the units were sold immediately, Mr. LeFrak said. "We chose to keep the balance of the units as rental, though we are now back to selling them again" -- at about $225 per square foot.
The office building was financed by Nippon Credit Bank, for about $75 million. "The Recruit Company of Japan, which specializes in ultra-high tech buildings, invested a huge amount of money in the infrastructure of the building," Mr. LeFrak said, "and turned around and subleased to tenants like Charles Schwab and Republic Bank."
The next phase of development was Newport Tower, a 1-million-square-foot office building. "That was done by the Simon organization, not us," Mr. LeFrak said. The major tenants include First Chicago Trust and Brown Brothers Harriman.
Then the real estate recession hit. "We went through a very long period when there was no money for development, between 1991 and 1995," Richard LeFrak said. There was even a point in 1990 when a $1.1-million mortgage payment was missed, and the payment schedule had to be renegotiated.
But, in Mayor Schundler's estimation, the company's contribution to the city never waned. "They slowed down during the recession, but they did not stop building altogether," he said. "What that reveals is that they are experienced developers who know how to build what the market is immediately able to absorb. And, as a result of that track record, the money is always there for them to do one building after the next."
In 1995, the LeFraks started work on Towers of America, a group of four residential buildings on a peninsula jutting into the Hudson. The first, the 32-story Riverside, has 346 rental apartments. It opened last October. Currently, rents for a two-bedroom range from $1,875 to $2,900.
The second building, the 35-story Atlantic, has 444 units. It opened on Aug. 15. Four days later, Susan Nehama and her husband, Serge, a corporate finance lawyer, moved into a two-bedroom apartment, for which they pay rent of $2,435. The next day, their son, Samuel, was born.
"We were living in Park Slope," Mrs. Nehama said, cuddling Samuel, with the family's Alaskan malamute, Bartleby, by her side. "We were subletting, but they sold the co-op. And we couldn't find anything for the rent we were offering -- $2,500."
The Nehamas saw an ad for the Atlantic, and called. "First of all, the view," Mrs. Nehama said, listing the reasons why she is happy with the move. "Then, the big kitchen, nice cabinets, good appliances. The PATH train to downtown. Then there is the mall, and the wildest supermarket you've ever seen -- every ethnic food group imaginable.
"And when you go out at night on the promenade there are tons of couples with their children. You feel like you're living in a yacht club."
CONSTRUCTION on the third building in the Towers of America complex, the 35-story, 440-unit East Hampton, has just started. And work will begin within a year for a fourth building in the quadrant, the Southhampton.
In May, ground was broken for the 15-story, $90 million Newport Office Center III, a 575,000-square-foot building that the LeFraks are financing out of their own capital. And, within weeks, construction will begin on another Lefrak-Simon development, a 200-room Marriott Hotel costing $25 million.
"At the completion of this phase of development," Richard LeFrak said, "we will have finished about 3,500 apartment units out of our total of 9,000 on site; we will have completed about 2 million feet of office space out of 4.5 million, and our retail total would be 1.2 million square feet out of our 2 million allowable. We're talking approximately 35 percent of the total." The rest of the development, he said, should be completed in about 10 years.
In one breath, Samuel LeFrak -- inching toward his 81st birthday -- declares that the Newport project "is my pinnacle. This is one of the things I will leave my heirs, my contribution, giving the people what they want and need."
But in the next breath, he says: "Even though many of my peers and colleagues have departed to their rewards, I am at the top of my game. I want to build 1,200 affordable apartments at the foot of the Williamsburg Bridge."
And, in assessing a man used to getting his way, who can tell?
"I believe in the golden rule -- the guy with the gold makes the rules," he says.
Earlier, on the boat, he recounted how, while sitting at a dockside restaurant several years ago, he chose the aquamarine-like facing for Newport's bay-windowed residential towers: "I said, 'Bring me romaine lettuce; there's your color.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Samuel J. LeFrak, left, aboard his yacht on the Hudson off Newport with son, Richard S. LeFrak. Newport apartment houses form a backdrop to site in foreground of two more rental buildings soon to rise. Susan Nehama with son, Samuel, and malamute, Bartleby, in her $2,435-a-month two-bedroom rental. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 8); At the 600-acre Newport development in Jersey City, new apartment and office buildings are rising and work is to begin next month on a hotel. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Map (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (99%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: LEFRAK ORGANIZATION INC (54%); HUDSON EXCHANGE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUDSON EXCHANGE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERSEY CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (99%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS MFG (76%); FILM (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (71%); MARINE VESSELS (71%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (60%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS SAMUEL LEFRAK (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



340 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: On Politics;
On One Mayor's Mind: T-Shirts and a Lot More

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson; Iver Peterson reports from New Jersey for The New York Times.

DATELINE: WILDWOOD

 BODY:
One of the perks of being the mayor of a shore town is the right to drive on the boardwalk. Everyone knows this.
In this old resort city, the police use sensible golf carts to patrol the boardwalk, but Mayor Fred Wager noses his exhausted old municipal Chevy up the ramp and parts the startled tourists (Ma! There's a car on the boardwalk!) like Moses at the Red Sea. As he drives, he looks around him, waiting for mayoral insights: "Too damn many T-shirt places," he mutters. "Maybe we need a new ordinance." 
 Traditionally, mayors have worried about garbage and street lights and stray dogs. They got involved with retail outlet issues mostly when the stores in question sold something illegal or immoral, just as Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has taken on the porno shops in New York.
But T-shirt shops? Yes. In the age of mayor as showman, impresario, economic development guru and chief booster, fine tuning the retail mix is something that comes with the territory.
These days, Fred Wager worries a lot about keeping Wildwood economically afloat, decades after its prime years as a busy family summer resort came and went. If that means the Mayor has to add the role of booking agent to his other duties, so be it.
So there's a genuine rodeo on in Wildwood this weekend, with everything from bareback riding to calf roping to barrel racing, and sanctioned by the Professional Rodeo Cowboy Association to boot.
"I did that," the Mayor said, gesturing to a poster for the rodeo. "They said I was crazy when I called up the rodeo people and told them to come down here. But we got the fire truck out there and wet down the sand for them and it was just like what they were used to, and they said, 'OK!' "
A new convention center, another of the mayor's projects, is in the works, one suited to mid-size groups like the state firefighters union, which faithfully comes to Wildwood each fall. And in his longest shot, Mr. Wager wants to put a casino on a parking lot downtown.
There was a time when economic development took care of itself, when downtowns had more demand for space than they knew what to do with, and when there was a waiting list of businesses trying to invest on Main Street.
In some places still -- Princeton, and particularly Princeton's Nassau Street, come to mind -- demand remains so strong that mayors and city councils are kept busy managing growth, not trying to get more.
But in Wildwood and other places where boom times of the 1950's and 1960's rolled in and then receded, economic development is not automatic any longer. And while western mining towns and New England farm settlements may have been allowed to decline more or less gracefully until they disappear, cities are harder places to walk away from.
"People used to just move away, but today there is too much of a core investment in most places to just give it up," said James W. Hughes, dean of the school of planning and public policy at Rutgers. "As a result, it has become part of the political culture to expect the politicians to take the leadership role in saving the downtown."
So Mr. Wager drives along the boardwalk and worries about the kinds of things that used to be the problems of businessmen, not politicians.
The trolley, which trundles tourists up and down the boardwalk, costs $1.75 for a ride -- too much, the Mayor believes: with a lower price, maybe the half-filled cars would carry more people past the shops, T-shirts and all. He makes a mental note to ask about the trolley fare when the ride's franchise is up for renewal.
Then he worries about the bicycles on the boardwalk. They are supposed to be off by 10 A.M., to give the cash-carrying, money-spending foot traffic an unimpeded chance to sample the arcade games, the saltwater taffy shops, the pizza joints and the T-shirt emporiums. But here it is, nearly 11, and the bicyclists are still weaving in and around the growing number of pedestrians. Mental note: enforce bike ban after 10 A.M.
Then the Mayor begins to worry about a problem that most coastal towns would consider a blessing -- between the boardwalk and the sparkling ocean lies an immense beach, 400 yards of open sand, combed and sifted daily by the city's beach machinery.
While dozens of other shore communities spend millions pumping beach sand onshore, the vagaries of tide and wind and current have conspired to dump too much sand on Wildwood, the Mayor thinks.
Too much sand means a water's edge too distant to produce easy, commercially rewarding wandering from shoreline to boardwalk storefront, and too distant from boardwalk restrooms for toddlers experiencing a suddenly urgent need of a bathroom. Too much sand for people to cross, period,
"Too much sand," the Mayor mused. "I wish someone would take some of it away."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Iver Peterson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILDWOOD (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; TROLLEY CARS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); APPAREL; T-SHIRTS (APPAREL) CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RODEOS (89%); GOLF (89%); ORDINANCES (78%); CITIES (78%); RESORTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DOGS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (63%); 

PERSON: WAGER, FRED (MAYOR); PETERSON, IVER RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



341 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER EAST SIDE;
Last Call for New Bars? Trendy Clothiers Move In

BYLINE: By ALISA TANG 

 BODY:
A cluster of trendy clothing and accessory shops are popping up in this neighborhood, in storefronts that once might have become that standard Lower East Side institution: the bar.
The change stems partly from the belief of the fashion world that the cool crowds that made the night scene in the neighborhood might also want to shop there during the day. But it also results from an anti-bar policy that Community Board 3 instituted in May 1997 and that will continue through the year 2000. Under the policy, which the board calls a moratorium, it will oppose all liquor licenses along a three-block stretch of Ludlow Street from Houston to Delancey, and along two blocks of Rivington and Stanton Streets, unless the establishment has a full kitchen, a fact that the board will verify. Even for bars with kitchens, the board may still oppose the application. 
 Of course, the board has no power to grant or reject licenses; that is the province of the State Liquor Authority. But the board's approach does deter new bars, said Marcia H. Lemmon, a local resident who fought for the policy.
"We think it has psychologically prevented bars from coming to the neighborhood," Ms. Lemmon said. "Bar owners realize that neighbors don't want only bars in the neighborhood."
In the last year and a half, four clothing and accessories stores have opened in vacant storefronts, and another three are set to open this fall, all near the intersection of Ludlow and Stanton Streets.
Ms. Lemmon said she she hoped the new stores would help the Lower East Side's economy and tone down the loud, crowded night life that keeps some residents sleepless.
Another optimist is David Gatenio, the owner of the 47-year-old Carl and Sons Clothing on Orchard Street. "In the next five years," he said of this influx of pricey, trendy stores, "the L.E.S. will be just like SoHo and even better because the buildings are newer."
But while many store owners and residents agree that the bar scene is oversaturated, many also fear that as these jet set stores move in, rents will skyrocket -- as they did in SoHo.
Terry Gillis, the owner of TG-170, a six-year-old clothing store on Ludlow Street, worries that large corporations will open boutiques. "The idea of this neighborhood is that smaller businesses can afford to open up," she said. "With big corporations, the rents get jacked up and entrepreneurs can no longer afford to come in."
Apartment rent is what concerns Pam Karp, an actress who has lived on the Lower East Side for eight years. "In a few years this neighborhood will no longer be for lower-income people," she said.
Tony Melillo, who hopes soon to open Nova USA, a clothing store on the northwest corner of Ludlow and Stanton, felt the heat from this debate recently when someone wrote "Go Back to SoHo" on his new storefront. A typed note left on his window told him, "We don't want you rich bohemian kids." ALISA TANG

GRAPHIC: Photo: There are mixed feelings about the clothing stores opening up around Stanton Street. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Map: "STOREFRONTS: Gear Not Beer"
Clothing and accessories shops are popping up on the Lower East Side, in part because of an "anti bar" policy of Community Board 3. Map shows locations of stores that have opened in the past 18 months or that are to open soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; APPAREL CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (92%); RETAILERS (91%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (75%); LICENSES & PERMITS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: TANG, ALISA STANTON STREETS (75%); MARCIA H LEMMON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



342 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2762 words

HEADLINE: Back to Vietnam, This Time toBuild

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam

 BODY:
THE last time Samuel F. Champi was in Vietnam, he was a 24-year-old Army engineer, building a 1,000-foot-long steel bridge across the Ban Thach River on the central coast. The bridge was to be a crucial link on the main north-south highway used by American military convoys, so he pulled round-the-clock shifts to complete it by early 1969.
On a tropical afternoon nearly three decades later, Mr. Champi stood stiffly in a gilded reception room here as the deputy chairman of the People's Committee of Ho Chi Minh City awarded him a license to build 40,000 low-cost apartment units in the suburbs of this teeming city, once known as Saigon. If completed, the project will be one of the largest American business investments ever in Vietnam. 
 For Mr. Champi, now 53 and a contractor in Bernardsville, N.J., it would also be a chance to return to Vietnam and pick up where he left off -- as a builder in a land where Americans mostly destroyed.
Not that he would put it that way. Mr. Champi says he has few misgivings about his experiences in the Vietnam War. And he rejects the suggestion that he is coming back on a personal odyssey to right old wrongs or to put the war behind him. "I don't think we owe the Vietnamese anything, because we were doing what we thought was right for them at the time," he said.
Still, he concedes that history hangs over the project. Three of his partners are Vietnam veterans, and so is the retired admiral who brokered the deal, Edward D. Sheafer Jr. Mr. Champi's company, Point Enterprises International, is named after the United States Military Academy at West Point, where he and two other partners were part of the class of 1966. Over all, that group suffered one of the highest mortality rates in the war of all West Point classes.
"You could say this is an accident, but it ain't no accident," said Tom Carhart, a partner and classmate of Mr. Champi's who was wounded twice as an infantry officer in Vietnam. "I was a soldier, and I did my duty as a soldier. But we caused a lot of damage in that country. It's nice to go back and do some good."
Mr. Carhart and Mr. Champi are among growing numbers of veterans who are returning to Vietnam to forge ties in a place where they once fought in battle. Several executives at Vietnam offices of American corporations served in the war; so did many of the American consultants, entrepreneurs and even diplomats who are now active here. Pete Peterson, the United States Ambassador to Vietnam, is a former Navy pilot who was shot down by the North Vietnamese and imprisoned for more than six years; Charles A. Ray, the newly appointed consul general in Ho Chi Minh City, served tours in Saigon and Da Nang as an Army staff officer.
Most veterans here, like thousands of other Americans who have arrived since President Clinton lifted the trade embargo in 1994, are hoping to make money in this awakening land. With 75 million people, a plentiful supply of cheap labor and one of the few economies in Southeast Asia that is still growing, Vietnam is a tempting target for sharp-eyed business people.
But for veterans, there are motives beyond the monetary one. Whether they feel at peace with their experience here or are still nursing scars, the war has left a lasting imprint on them. Because they were witnesses to the anguish borne by the Vietnamese, most believe they can play a part in healing the wounds between the United States and Vietnam.
"There is a real feeling of happiness on both sides that former enemies can work together in a positive way," Mr. Ray said. "The best people to bridge the past and the future are the people who were here in the past. That will make it easier for Americans in the future to get on with business."
Certainly, the veterans are dogged in their determination to succeed in a country where many foreign investors have failed. Like most new arrivals, Mr. Champi and his partners have found doing business here nearly as difficult as fighting a war, complicated by capricious regulation, endless red tape and the hostility of Communist bureaucrats to free-market principles.
The obstacles are so great that some American companies, like Chrysler, have pulled out of Vietnam, while others, like Procter & Gamble, have fallen into vicious squabbles with their state-controlled partners. Asia's financial crisis has compounded the problem by forcing the main investing nations, like Singapore, Taiwan and Japan, to scale back their ambitions in the country. New foreign investment in Vietnam plunged to $1.15 billion in the first six months of 1998, 15 percent less than in the corresponding period last year.
MR. CHAMPI believes that his housing project will be one of the rare successes because it meets a crying need. With a population that has swelled to 5.5 million, Ho Chi Minh City is seriously overcrowded. Families of 10 cram into tiny apartments; people sleep on the sidewalks on bamboo mats. In 1994, the government announced a plan to address the overcrowding by moving two million people from the city center to outlying districts. But to do that, it must supply them with affordable places to live.
"We're not here to build luxury hotels or take advantage of the labor force," Mr. Champi said. "We're here to build something there's a great need for. It's not something that we have to sell them on."
Even so, after two years of tortuous negotiations, Point Enterprises could still see its efforts come to nothing. The company has an agreement in principle for the municipal government to buy $321 million of apartments over 11 years. The partners stand to make a profit of $39 million, but first they need financing to build a factory that would churn out the pre-cast concrete slabs for the apartments.
To get the financing, they will need a guarantee from the municipal government -- and perhaps the national one, too -- that the city will honor the contract terms. On Aug. 18, Mr. Champi and Mr. Sheafer received a verbal commitment for such a guarantee from city officials. They are now nervously awaiting the written document.
"If we're unable to finance this deal, it's going to bring the sharks out," said Mr. Carhart, a gregarious man whose free-flowing pessimism neatly balances Mr. Champi's reserved confidence. "This is a crap shoot. It's a high-risk venture thousands of miles from home."
But the partners have not wavered, despite having invested $250,000 so far with no assurance of a return. They have maintained their resolve by drawing on a lifetime of close friendships and a shared experience that makes Vietnam a passion as well as a project.
In addition to Mr. Carhart and Mr. Champi, the partners are John W. Morris, a retired Army lieutenant general and chief of engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers; Vincent Casillo, a New York City contractor, and James P. Fabiani, a senior executive at a Washington lobbying firm. With the exception of Mr. Fabiani, all are West Point graduates, Vietnam veterans or both.
Mr. Morris was Mr. Champi's regimental captain at West Point and later a group commander of the Corps of Engineers in Vietnam, where he again supervised Mr. Champi. At 77, with service in World War II, Korea and Vietnam behind him, Mr. Morris is a sort of guiding light for the group.
"I've always felt the Vietnamese deserved a better shake than they got," he said. "They were caught in the middle of historical forces."
Mr. Casillo played middle linebacker on the West Point football team in the same years that Mr. Champi, who is 6 feet 5 inches tall, played tight end. They graduated together in 1966, and even though they did not serve together afterward -- Mr. Casillo was assigned to duty in Europe -- they stayed in touch.
"People who go to West Point are conditioned to be particularly close," Mr. Casillo said. "When you are with a group of people who came from the same system, there's a camaraderie that never ends."
Although the West Point contingent had already teamed up to explore projects overseas, it was a Naval Academy graduate, Mr. Sheafer, who put them on the road to Vietnam. A bluff, barrel-chested man who had risen to rear admiral and director of naval intelligence, he had been struggling to build a consulting practice in Vietnam since he retired from the Navy in 1995.
Like Mr. Champi, Mr. Sheafer is not one to dwell on the war. But as a career military officer, he felt its lingering effect. He served several tours of duty in Vietnam between 1963 and 1970, at one time commanding a minesweeper that prowled the coastal waters near the border between South and North Vietnam.
In one memorable incident, he said, he watched helplessly as two fishing boats smuggled ammunition across the border from the south. He tried to block the boats, but the Navy's rules of engagement barred him from firing on them unless they fired first. He ordered an air strike, but the bombers arrived after the boats had landed in the north and emptied their cargo.
For years afterward, Mr. Sheafer labored in a military that had been demoralized by its failure in Vietnam. He said he did not come to terms with the war until 1984, when he paid a midnight visit to the rotunda of the United States Capitol. The body of an unknown soldier from Vietnam, who has since been identified as an Air Force pilot, Michael J. Blassie, was lying in state there before its entombment at Arlington National Cemetery.
"I was standing there in my dress uniform, and suddenly I began crying, not because of my own hostility, but because of the futility of the whole thing," Mr. Sheafer recalled. "There was no good legacy for these people. What did they die for?"
BY the time he retired, the American military had rehabilitated its reputation with the Persian Gulf war. But to him, Vietnam was still unfinished business. So when a lawyer he knew approached him about starting a home security company in Vietnam, he jumped at the chance.
Mr. Sheafer plotted his return methodically. He recruited his own interpreter. He played up his admiral's rank and connections to senior American officials.
But the going was slow. He had trouble making contacts with the right Vietnamese officials. The lawyer who promised to open doors for him failed to deliver. He spent long days in an office set up in the lounge at the upscale but somewhat dreary New World Hotel here, waiting for the phone to ring.
Finally, in late July 1996, he won a meeting with Vo Viet Thanh, the chairman of the People's Committee of Ho Chi Minh City. As it happened, Mr. Thanh had been a general in the North Vietnamese army and had supervised intelligence operations. Mr. Sheafer and Mr. Thanh chatted about the shadowy world of military intelligence, and a rapport was established.
Mr. Thanh told Mr. Sheafer that the city's biggest need was for cheap housing that could be built quickly. He said he had an immediate need for about 200,000 apartments, with a long-term goal of 500,000. Mr. Sheafer replied that he would find an American contractor who could do the job. Through Mr. Carhart, who is his neighbor in McLean, Va., Mr. Sheafer stumbled onto Mr. Champi.
AT first, Mr. Champi was fearful about going back to Vietnam. But he made a happy discovery upon his arrival: Younger Vietnamese did not care about his background, while older people, many of whom had fought in the North Vietnamese Army or with the Vietcong, felt a sort of kinship with him.
"I think all military people have a bond, regardless of what side they were on," Mr. Champi said. "We were all doing our jobs for our country."
Over the next 18 months, Mr. Champi and Mr. Sheafer made a dozen trips to Ho Chi Minh City. Their goal was to persuade the municipal government to agree to buy as many apartments from them as possible. Eventually, they hammered out a deal for 40,000 units at an average price of $8,025 each.
The apartments, 320 to 860 square feet in size, will be stacked in four-story blocks, using prefabrication technology developed by a Finnish company, Partek Concrete Engineering. In that process, a factory produces standardized panels of pre-cast concrete, which are then assembled quickly into buildings, eliminating the need for structural steel girders, beams or columns.
Despite the Lego-block construction method, Mr. Champi said the finished buildings could last 100 years. To sell the design, he flew a team of Vietnamese architects to Singapore to inspect apartments built with the same technology.
The negotiations would follow a serpentine path, with breakthroughs in one session often being erased in the next.
Initially, for example, the government pushed foreign investors to establish joint ventures. So Point Enterprises took on a Vietnamese company as a minority partner. But last February, the Vietnamese partner -- a company that collects bills for the city government -- petitioned to change the terms of the joint venture in a way that would have relegated the Americans to mere subcontractors.
The move stunned Mr. Champi and his partners, who had put up all the seed money for the project. Fortunately for them, it came just as a ground swell of anger and frustration with joint ventures was developing among prominent foreign investors, including Procter & Gamble.
In March, Vietnam's Prime Minister, Phan Van Khai, agreed to allow foreigners to own 100 percent of business ventures in any industry not deemed strategically important, like oil and gas or communications. Point Enterprises received permission to sever ties with its Vietnamese partner and go it alone.
Still, Mr. Carhart said, "there are other impediments to doing business in Vietnam." Progress is often slow, and "individuals that approve projects have to answer to higher-ups, so no decision is ever final," he explained.
At the ceremony in Ho Chi Minh City where Mr. Champi received his investment license, the deputy chairman of the People's Committee, Tran Thanh Hai, tried to sound definitive. "We are committed to extend our support for the continuation of the project," he said as he gingerly raised a glass of champagne.
Ambassador Peterson, who had come from Hanoi to attend the ceremony, struck a more cautionary note in a speech. "Issuing licenses is the easiest part of the job," he said, "Implementation is the key word."
At a reception after the ceremony, several Americans who live in Ho Chi Minh City handicapped the project's future with weary cynicism. They predicted that the partners would suffer more setbacks before they broke ground. "They're about 5 percent of the way there," said Peter N. Sheridan, a Vietnam veteran who, like Mr. Sheafer, helps put together ventures.
Vietnamese officials know all too well that their country has a bad reputation among foreign investors. But they say the Government is working to clear the bureaucratic underbrush. One official noted that when Vietnam decided to open its economy in 1986, the Government expected to have a decade or more in which to move from central planning to a market economy. But foreign investment began flooding into Vietnam by 1991 -- and with it came calls for accelerated change.
"Of course, things are not as smooth as we would wish," said Nguyen Dinh Mai, the vice director of Ho Chi Minh City's department of planning and investment. "But they have improved a lot."
ODDLY, given the time and money they have invested, the partners of Point Enterprises seem almost fatalistic about the outcome. Mr. Champi said he would treasure his trips to Vietnam even if he never got to put up an apartment block. "That may sound naive and unbusinesslike, but it's true," he said.
For Mr. Carhart, the mere act of returning to Vietnam was its own reward. As an infantry platoon leader, Mr. Carhart saw fierce fighting in the war, and was shot twice in 1968. Then he was recruited into Operation Phoenix, a controversial program supported by the Central Intelligence Agency that sought to root out Vietcong agents working in South Vietnam, sometimes by killing them.
"I have terribly mixed feelings about Vietnam," Mr. Carhart said. "On the one hand, I did my duty. On the other hand, I've grieved deeply."
Last October, on one of his business trips to Vietnam, Mr. Carhart took a day off and visited the small town south of Ho Chi Minh City where he was based during his tour with Operation Phoenix. The house where he had planned his missions, he said, had been converted into a convent.
"Going back to that town put wings on my heart," he said. "You can't go home again, but you can sure close the circle."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Carhart, another project partner from the class of 1966, said of his return to Vietnam, "It's nice to go back and do some good." (Barry Donahue for The New York Times (right)); Officials want to move two million people from the crowded conditions of Ho Chi Minh City's center. (Lois Raimondo for The New York Times); A computer animation of the housing units that the American investment partners are planning for the city. Vincent Casillo, a New York contractor, was a cadet in West Point's class of 1966 with some of his current partners in the Vietnam venture. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times (right))(pg. 11); A housing construction venture is showing another side of Vietnam to Edward D. Sheafer Jr. and Samuel F. Champi. In the 1960's, Mr. Sheafer served in Vietnam as a Navy officer, left, while Mr. Champi, right, was in the Army. This summer, they stood outside the headquarters of the People's Committee in Ho Chi Minh City on the day they received their investment license. (Doan Duc Minh for The New York Times (center))(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Fertile Crescent"
With an ample supply of cheap labor and one of the few economies in Southeast Asia that is still growing, Vietnam is a tempting target for foreign investment.
 
Foreign investment in Vietnam
 
Number of licensed foreign investment projects through July 9: 1,785
 
Dollar value of projects: $32.7 billion
 
Number of new licensed investment projects in first half of 1998: 93
(26% decline from the same period last year)
 
Dollar value of projects: $1.15 billion
 
(15% decline from last year)
 
Top investors, by country
 
Singapore
Number of projects: 180
Dollar value (in billions): $6.98
 
Taiwan
Number of projects: 304
Dollar value (in billions): 4.15
 
Hong Kong
Number of projects: 187
Dollar value (in billions): 3.83
 
Japan
Number of projects: 217
Dollar value (in billions): 3.50
 
South Korea
Number of projects: 191
Dollar value (in billions): 3.14
 
France
Number of projects: 91
Dollar value (in billions): 1.58
 
Malaysia
Number of projects: 60
Dollar value (in billions): 1.37
 
United States
Number of projects: 71
Dollar value (in billions): 1.25
 
British Virgin Islands
Number of projects: 55
Dollar value (in billions): 1.08
 
Some big American investors
 
Capital invested (in millions)
 
Coca-Cola: $100.0
Procter & Gamble: 70.0
Exxon: 50.0
Cargill: 30.0
Citibank: 20.0
Carrier: 10.0
Lucent Technologies: 3.5
I.B.M.: 1.5
 
(Sources: Foreign Trade and Investment Development Center; Vietnam Business Journal)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIETNAM (95%); VIET NAM (94%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); FRANCE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (95%); 

COMPANY: POINT ENTERPRISES INTERNATIONAL AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: POINT ENTERPRISES INTERNATIONAL

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; HO CHI MINH CITY (VIETNAM); UNITED STATES (99%); VIETNAM (95%); VIET NAM (94%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); FRANCE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (95%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; VIETNAM WAR; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; HOUSING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); VETERANS (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (61%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (55%); 

PERSON: CHAMPI, SAMUEL F; LANDLER, MARK; PETERSON, PETE (AMB); SHEAFER, EDWARD D JR; CARHART, TOM; CASILLO, VINCENT PETE PETERSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



343 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Hispanic Businesses Try to Move Up the Charts

BYLINE: By EDWARD LEWINE 

 BODY:
THE tiny office behind the displays of lamps, doorknobs and coffee grinders was crowded Tuesday morning. Natan Wekselbaum and three associates were plotting the expansion of his East Side housewares emporium Gracious Home to Broadway and 67th Street, where a branch is to open this month.
"It was a hardware store, a 25-foot storefront" when it opened on Third Avenue between 70th and 71st Streets in 1963, Mr. Wekselbaum said. "But little by little we listened to our customers and just kept adding on." The store now measures 33,000 square feet and sits on both sides of the avenue. 
 Gracious Home, which took in $30 million last year, is among the relatively small number of Hispanic-owned companies in the city with revenues in the multimillions. Joel Russell, an editor of Hispanic Business magazine, said that there were 94,000 Hispanic firms in New York State but that only 17 of them were on his magazine's list of the 500 Hispanic businesses in America with the highest revenues. The list was compiled from responses to a questionnaire.
"The statistics don't say that Hispanic businesses aren't starting in New York," Mr. Russell said. "They are. But they aren't growing to the size to get on our list."
Of New York City's 70,000 Hispanic businesses, only 10 are on the magazine's roster. They have annual revenues ranging from about $5.5 million to $275 million, and operate in such diverse areas as construction and tourism.
There are a variety of theories about the sparsity of Hispanic heavyweights in New York. Israel Bulbank, a Cuban immigrant and president of the Unalite Electric and Lighting Corporation of Woodside, Queens -- No. 313 on the list -- said it was hard in general for Latino business people to find investors in corporate America, so those who live in states like California and Florida, which are closer to Latin American money sources, have an easier time. Mr. Russell also said that entrepreneurs in rapidly expanding cities found it easier than those in more established places, like New York.
George Herrera, president of the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce in Washington, said the problem was linked to the high cost of real estate, which makes it difficult to open a large business in the city. "New York is more of a retail economy," he explained.
But some companies grow large nonetheless. Consider Dial-a-Mattress, a business familiar to local television viewers, who are regularly exhorted by the company's advertisements to call 1-800-Mattres and "leave off the last S for savings." The venture was started in 1976 by Napoleon Barragan, an Ecuadorean immigrant. As Mr. Barragan, tells it, he began his career by working in a furniture store in Long Island City, Queens.
"One day I was reading The New York Post," he said, "and I saw an ad for Dial-a-Steak. So I said, 'Let's try mattress.' " His company, which is still situated in Long Island City and delivers mattresses around the nation, estimates that it will have revenues of $90 million this year. Mr. Barragan is now working with his son Luis -- his likely successor -- to expand abroad.
Dial-a-Mattress is typical of the city's larger Hispanic-owned businesses. Many were founded in the 1960's and 70's and grew slowly. Many are still run by their founders, middle-aged or older men who are now thinking about passing on the business to a son. Though for some the majority of their trade is with the Latino community, the larger companies have broken out of the ethnic economy.
"These are firms that have penetrated the general marketplace," said Mr. Herrera, adding that he suspected many of the larger firms had the backing of non-Hispanic business people.
Many owners of larger companies said that being Hispanic was incidental to their work. "To be in business is something that anyone can do," said Mr. Wekselbaum, who was born in Cuba. "It doesn't have anything to do with background."
But some of the smaller large companies, those with revenues in the $5 million to $15 million range, rely heavily on Latino business. La Rosa del Monte Express, for example, was founded in 1968 as a moving company in the Longwood section of the Bronx. But soon the founder, Hiram Rodriguez, began to specialize in moves between his native Puerto Rico and the United States.
He said being Hispanic had been a huge help. "The Hispanic community is really growing," he said. "They really support us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of New York's successful Hispanic businessmen are, from top, Natan Wekselbaum of Gracious Home, Nestor L. Rios of Victory Wholesale, Napoleon Barragan with his son Luis Barragan of Dial-a-Mattress, and Israel Bulbank of Unalite Electric. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times; Andrea Mohin/The New York Times; Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 
Table: "BIG BUSINESS: New York's Hispanic Companies: Some Heavyweights"
 
NAME -- AJ Contracting (construction)
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Charles Uribe
FOUNDED -- 1917
1997 REVENUE (MILLIONS) -- $276
NO. OF EMPLOYEES -- 205
 
NAME -- Gaseteria Oil (gas stations)
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Oscar Porcelli
FOUNDED -- 1975
1997 REVENUE (MILLIONS) -- $115
NO. OF EMPLOYEES -- 500
 
NAME -- Condal Distributors (food wholesaler)
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Nestor Fernandez
FOUNDED -- 1991
1997 REVENUE (MILLIONS) -- $88.5
NO. OF EMPLOYEES -- 135
 
NAME -- Dial-a-Mattress
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Napoleon Barragan
FOUNDED -- 1976
1997 REVENUE (MILLIONS) -- $70
NO. OF EMPLOYEES -- 320
 
NAME -- Gracious Home (housewares)
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Natan Wekselbaum
FOUNDED -- 1963
1997 REVENUE (MILLIONS) -- $30
NO. OF EMPLOYEES -- 225
 
NAME -- Integrated Imaging (printing)
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Robert Lopez
FOUNDED -- 1996
1997 REVENUE (MILLIONS) -- $14.9
NO. OF EMPLOYEES -- 110
 
NAME -- La Rosa del Monte Express (moving, shipping)
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Hiram Rodriguez
FOUNDED -- 1968
1997 REVENUE (MILLIONS) -- $14.5
NO. OF EMPLOYEES -- 200
 
NAME -- Unalite Electric and Lighting
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Israel Bulbank
FOUNDED -- 1976
1997 REVENUE (MILLIONS) -- $10.6
NO. OF EMPLOYEES -- 570
 
NAME -- Pam Tours International of New York
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Alvaro Pena
FOUNDED -- 1963
1997 REVENUE (MILLIONS) -- $5.5
NO. OF EMPLOYEES -- 10
 
NAME -- Victory Wholesale Tobacco Distribution
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Nestor L. Rios
FOUNDED -- 1981
1997 REVENUE (MILLIONS) -- $5.3
NO. OF EMPLOYEES -- 75
 
(Sources: Hispanic Business magazine; Crain's New York Business; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (80%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (80%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (61%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (61%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: HISPANIC BUSINESS (MAGAZINE) 1800MATTRESS.COM (80%); SLEEPY'S INC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: HISPANIC BUSINESS (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS MINORITY BUSINESSES (94%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); HARDWARE STORES (72%); TRENDS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); FURNITURE STORES (63%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (62%); URBANIZATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: LEWINE, EDWARD JOEL RUSSELL (60%); NATAN WEKSELBAUM (60%); NAPOLEON BARRAGAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



344 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

INVESTING IT /Page 5/
A small drug company in a low-risk niche must race the calendar to remake itself as a full-fledged drug maker. By Anne Tergesen. 

INVESTING IT /Page 7/
Some popular small-capitalization stock funds have reopened their doors to new investors. Funds Watch, by Carole Gould.
 
EARNING IT /Page 10/
Retailers blame the tightness of the labor market for a growing problem with theft by employees. By Noelle Knox.
 
VOICES /Page 12/
Rising real estate costs are squeezing out the industries that could cushion the blow to New York City's economy from a prolonged stock slump. Viewpoint, by Joel Kotkin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (65%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); 

PERSON: JOEL KOTKIN (65%); NOELLE KNOX (65%); CAROLE GOULD (65%); ANNE TERGESEN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



345 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Aiming to Thwart Theft Behind the Counter

BYLINE: By NOELLE KNOX 

 BODY:
KELLY GREEN and Karri Carter spent a night late last month in McLean County Jail in Bloomington, Ill. Both were sales clerks from the nearby Wal-Mart, arrested in the store and charged with ringing up sales to phantom customers, recording bogus returns and then pocketing cash refunds of more than $300.
Ms. Green, 31, and Ms. Carter, 27, who are scheduled to be arraigned this week, declined to discuss the case; Bryan Holmberg, a spokesman for Wal-Mart Stores, would say only that "this kind of incident is very rare." But if they are convicted, the women will become another statistic in a rising tide of employee theft in retail stores. 
 One of the few disadvantages of a robust economy, human resource administrators say, is its effect on hiring practices, especially among retailers. The nation's unemployment rate has held at well below 5 percent this year; in some states, like Minnesota and New Hampshire, it is skirting 2 percent. The shrinking labor pool, consultants say, gives employers fewer hiring choices, exacerbating other changes in employment patterns that have contributed to worker theft in recent years.
"The employment base is low, and retailers are not getting a lot of people who are extremely qualified," said David Johnston, director of training and research for LP Innovations, the loss-prevention subsidiary of J. Baker Inc., a Canton, Mass., retailer that owns the Casual Male Big and Tall clothing chain. "If the company doesn't have an effective screening program, they're going to get whoever comes in off the street."
Retailers reported a surge in employee theft last year, according to the latest National Retail Security Survey by the University of Florida. The companies in the survey attributed 47 percent of all lost cash and merchandise to the light fingers of their workers, up from 41 percent in 1996.
"We have never seen employee-theft numbers quite this high," said Richard Hollinger, a sociology professor at the university. The survey, now in its eighth year, polled 201 retailers nationwide.
If the survey results are accurate for the industry as a whole, workers stole $13.3 billion of the $28.1 billion in cash and merchandise that retailers lost last year. By comparison, shoplifting -- which gets far more publicity as a source of retail crime -- accounted for only $9.6 billion, or 34 percent. The remainder was lost to vendor fraud and administrative error.
To deal with theft problems, more retailers are running employee background checks through organizations like the United States Mutual Association, a clearinghouse on theft and fraud cases. Much of the information it collects about employee theft and shoplifters is provided by the retailers themselves, to be shared with other retailers.
Robert Ralicki, vice president of marketing for United States Mutual, which counts Sears, Roebuck and Gap Inc. among its subscribing companies, said it had 2.5 million cases of employee theft in its data base. That number, he said, should double within two years as more retailers contribute information.
"Retailers have limited resources they can devote to background checks for entry-level personnel," he said, "but they want to know if John or Jane Doe has a track record of dishonesty before they give them access to their cash and merchandise."
RETAILERS are also spending millions of dollars a year on new technology to combat employee theft, a category of spending that barely existed a decade ago.
Among the fast-selling items are cash register software programs that track unusual transactions, like a high number of voided sales or several returns to one credit card. When the software senses trickery, a nearby closed-circuit camera focuses on the employee.
The Sensormatic Electronics Corporation of Boca Raton, Fla., said that new orders for employee-surveillance technology soared 17 percent last year and have more than doubled over the last five years; by comparison, Sensormatic said, its shoplifting technology sales have grown just 25 percent over the same period.
"We are seeing more business from small and midsize retailers because the technology is more affordable and they can't afford not to use it," said Donald R. Taylor, director of market planning for Sensormatic.
Surveillance equipment for a small store can cost $5,000 to $10,000 -- and the investment may well pay off. According to the University of Florida study, an employee who steals will take an average of $1,058 in cash or merchandise in a year, while a shoplifter will walk away with an average of $212.
Beyond the smaller pool of available labor, other changes in employment patterns are contributing to the rise in employee theft, retail security consultants say. Retailers that stay open later or operate seven days a week, for example, tend to rely more on part-time employees, who may lack a strong sense of loyalty to the company.
High turnover, another abettor to theft, also dogs the industry, because an entry-level retail job is no longer seen as a first step on a career path. And working conditions at retail jobs can also lead to a discontented work force. Security experts say that employees caught stealing often said they felt unfairly treated, overworked or underpaid.
Steve Kasserman, a loss-prevention officer at the Bi-Mart Corporation, a discount chain based in Eugene, Ore., has his own explanation for this kind of thinking. "If you pay someone $6.50 an hour to stand on their feet," he said, and to take whatever insults the public dishes out for seven to nine hours a day, "they get mad, and eventually they'll take it out by stealing."
Jealousy may also be a motivation, especially in the era of executive stock options. "Whenever you have a chief executive officer who makes millions," Mr. Kasserman said, "the lowest ranks of employees will always feel the need to play Robin Hood -- with the exception that they never return any of the goods or money."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graph: "Sticky Fingers"
In recent years, employee theft has eclipsed shoplifting as the main cause of lost cash and merchandise at retail stores. Last year, retailers attributed almost half their losses, or $13.3 billion of the $28.1 billion in missing cash and goods, to thefts by workers. Shoplifters were held responsible for $9.6 billion, or 34 percent. The remaining losses are chalked up to vendor fraud or administrative error. Graphs show percent of losses due to shoplifting or employee theft, from '94 through '97. (Source: National Retail Security Survey)
 
Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (82%); DXLG (NASDAQ) (82%); WMT (NYSE) (75%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (75%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GAP INC (82%); DESTINATION XL GROUP INC (82%); WAL-MART STORES INC (75%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (50%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; SHOPLIFTING; LABOR RETAILERS (92%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SHOPLIFTING (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (74%); HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (70%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: KNOX, NOELLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



346 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: VIEWPOINT;
Little Industries Mean a Lot to Manhattan

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin, a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy in Malibu, Calif., writes often about urban issues.

 BODY:
WITH the Wall Street money machine suddenly in turmoil, New Yorkers might increasingly see their economic salvation in unfashionable places like Varick Street. Made up largely of older brick industrial buildings just three or four subway stops from the world's financial center, the area is a key part of the city's $3 billion printing industry.
Yet there is growing apprehension among Varick Street printers. As rents soar in surrounding areas, many of them fear they will soon be forced to find new homes farther from their clients in Manhattan's flourishing media, arts, business-services and financial industries. 
 "Fewer and fewer people feel they can remain in Manhattan, said Stuart Leventhal, executive vice president of Empire Graphics on Varick Street, the sole New York City manufacturer on last year's Inc. magazine list of the nation's 500 fastest-growing private companies. "There's a feeling that the real estate interests don't want printers and related businesses around."
These fears have been compounded by recent announcements by Trinity Real Estate, the area's premier landlord and the real estate arm of Trinity Church, that many leases with printers will not be renewed. In the trade publication Printing News, Steve Heyman, director of commercial leasing at Trinity Real Estate, suggested that Trinity wanted to move out companies it considered too noisy, too dirty and too smelly.
Mr. Heyman said in a subsequent interview that some printers, particularly those using the latest desktop technology, could remain in the district because they did not offend more conventional office clients. In the last decade, he added, many printers have failed to make payments, moved out or closed up shop. By retrofitting the buildings for office tenants, he said, Trinity can gain a more stable client base and charge rents that are two or three times those now paid by printers.
Varick Street is emblematic of the continuing struggle to preserve economic diversity in a city increasingly dominated by one sector -- financial services. Although New York has long served as the nation's financial capital, recent studies show that the city's reliance on financial services and related businesses has reached new, perhaps alarming, levels.
In the bull market of the 1980's, according to a recent report by H. Carl McCall, the New York State Comptroller, Wall Street accounted for 23 percent of the city's income growth. In the bull market of this decade, the financial sector has contributed 56 percent of the earnings increase.
As the Wall Street expansions of the 1960's did, the recent boom has energized the city's economy. But it has driven up real estate costs for industrial companies as developers and landlords try to lure more upscale tenants. A recent survey of manufacturers by the New York Industrial Retention Network found that more than half the manufacturers in Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and Staten Island thought real estate costs had increased significantly in the last year; in Manhattan, 77 percent of the manufacturers agreed.
SUCH real estate pressures, said Fred Levine, chairman of the Industrial Technology Assistance Corporation and president of Marcus & Wiesen, a garment maker in Queens Plaza, contributed to a loss of 30,000 manufacturing jobs from 1992 to 1997. Even successful executives like Mr. Leventhal blame the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani for pursuing zoning policies and subsidies that favor housing, offices and high-profile retailers at the expense of small manufacturers.
But Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the City Planning Commission, disputed the notion that City Hall is biased against manufacturers. He said regulatory changes and tax cuts had helped create more than 4,000 mostly small-scale manufacturing companies, which he saw as representative of the future of New York's industrial economy.
"Our goal is to do nothing that displaces viable manufacturing districts, but you can't solve every problem," he said. "We can't tell a landlord what he can do with a commercial lease." He added that many of the lower-level jobs lost in manufacturing could be made up by the retail and tourism sectors. And the media, computer and business-services companies now found in the space abandoned by printers and blue-collar industries also diversify and enrich the economy, he said.
Mr. Rose suggests that the pressure on manufacturers is part of a process that began four decades ago.
After World War II, New York City was one of the world's most diverse industrial economies, with roughly a million workers. Its factories made everything from steel pipe and machine parts to furniture, books, brochures, light fixtures and apparel.
Fernand Braudel, the late French historian, noted that these small businesses, most employing less than 30 people and often clustered by industry in areas like Varick Street, offered customers almost instant delivery of specialty goods in ways that would be impossible for more remote suppliers in less diverse economies. He and others contended that these sectors helped cushion boom-and-bust cycles.
But by the 1960's, New York's industrial sector really began to shrink, as companies fled the city's high taxes and land costs. Today, manufacturing employment is roughly 260,000, a quarter of the level of the immediate post-war period. And in the last quarter-century, the deterioration has accelerated; in apparel, the largest New York industrial sector, there are roughly 80,000 workers, a third as many as in the mid-70's.
Some people, including Robert Fitch, an urban economist at New York University, say the shrinkage has contributed to the city's growing income inequality which, according to a recent study by the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, a research center in Washington, is now the widest in the nation. Although not as high-paying as jobs in securities, media and other elite sectors, New York's dwindling manufacturing jobs pay more than $39,000 a year, on average -- 20 percent more than hotel work and nearly twice as much as retail jobs.
OF course, New York is not the only city that has seen a precipitous fall in industrial employment. Between 1978 and 1997, manufacturing jobs in the nation basically stagnated at roughly 16 million. But in urban centers, the number of such jobs fell from 4.1 million, to 1.6 million, according to the Industrial Technology Institute, a research center in Ann Arbor, Mich.
But in a handful of other places, including Phoenix, Houston and Los Angeles, industrial employment has been growing. Houston, for example, has added a total of roughly 20,000 industrial jobs the last three years. Although much of the growth is connected to the petrochemical and refining industries, the city has also seen gains in food processing, machine tools and transportation equipment.
Bill Gilmer, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Houston, traces this resurgence, which followed precipitous declines in the 1980's oil bust, to two important factors: the development of highly concentrated expertise in the energy sector and an immigration trend that has provided motivated labor and entrepreneurial zeal. Houston's success can also be traced to its relatively low taxes, low real estate costs and business-friendly attitude.
Los Angeles, though, seems more relevant to New York. Los Angeles County, the region's urban core, also has relatively high taxes and real estate costs. But after a sharp decline in manufacturing jobs at the end of the cold war, it has rebounded, becoming the country's leading industrial area last year. It has added roughly 30,000 industrial jobs since 1995.
Interestingly, Los Angeles's current manufacturing economy parallels the old New York model of small, highly diverse companies. It has seen job growth in food processing, metals, bicycle parts, furniture and aerospace. But perhaps most significant has been the growth in the apparel and textile sectors, which have added more than 15,000 jobs since 1995.
While some people trace the growth of Los Angeles manufacturing to its big pool of low-wage workers, including many illegal aliens, similar conditions exist in many other cities, including New York. More important may be the development of dense networks of supplier firms, designers and a wealth of aggressive entrepreneurs, including many immigrants from Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa.
Nowhere is this more pronounced than in downtown Los Angeles. Once largely filled with unoccupied, dilapidated factories and warehouses, the area has seen industrial vacancy rates drop to the low single digits.
To Orly Dehan, president of the apparel maker Tag Rag, it is the proximity to suppliers and other essential services that makes downtown Los Angeles such an appealing industrial area. Designers, factories and factors -- the financial middlemen between manufacturers and retailers -- are within a 10-minute walk or drive of one another, explained Mr. Dehan, who came to Los Angeles via Montreal and Morocco in the early 1980's.
"When I go to New York," he said, "you can sell in Manhattan, but the factories are in Pennsylvania."
PROXIMITY is precisely why companies like Empire Graphics -- which employs 60 people, mostly members of minorities -- prefer to stay in places like Varick Street. Like other bastions of New York manufacturing, including custom furniture and food processing, printers thrive on close interaction with customers, suppliers and, perhaps most important, with one another. Indeed, despite real estate prices that are often at least 50 percent higher than in the outer boroughs, most of the city's fastest-growing industrial companies continue to cluster in Manhattan or in places like Long Island City, just across the East River in Queens.
All this may seem out of place in an era of instantaneous global communication, but such face-to-face links are still important.
"Our customers don't want to spend money and time to check the work we're doing for them," Mr. Leventhal said. "They want to be able to walk, get in the cab or subway to check the proofs. When push comes to shove, the ability to be local and close -- to see what's going on -- is more important than being in the global village. That's why we're still here."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Barton Stabler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PRINTING AND ALLIED TRADES COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (56%); 

PERSON: KOTKIN, JOEL

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



347 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
The Sellers? Hint: They Don't Live Around Here

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
More sellers than buyers. That's the glib explanation for why stocks couldn't keep a good head of steam going last week. After a fine showing on Tuesday, when the Dow Jones industrial average jumped 380 points, sellers took back the reins. The Dow ended the week mustering a 2 percent gain.
Where is all the selling coming from? Anecdotal reports have had institutional investors bailing while individuals hang tough in their portfolios. Robert Adler at AMG Data Services concurs, reporting that money continues to head into stock mutual funds, despite recent market volatility. 
 In the week ending Wednesday, $1.6 billion went into large-capitalization growth funds; lesser amounts flowed into small-stock funds. Net of sales, a total of $1.4 billion went into equity funds for the week.
More significant, employee contributions to mutual funds via their retirement plans still seem to be on automatic pilot. "The small investor-401(k) base hasn't appeared to have stirred at all," Mr. Adler said.
What is stirring is the foreign investor, a huge force in the market for United States Treasury securities and an increasingly important one in stocks. By many accounts, foreign investors have been responsible for much of the recent divesting of stocks. "Heavy selling at the market opening is a sign of overseas investors' getting out," said Jack H. Shaughnessy, president of Boston Advisors Inc., a money management firm. "It concerns me, because since 1995 foreign investors have been a big factor behind rising stock prices."
The Federal Reserve Board released data on Friday about investment in the second quarter of 1998; they show a big slowdown in net purchases of American equities by foreign residents even before the market's summer swoon. While these investors bought a net $116.1 billion of stocks in the first quarter, net purchases in the second quarter were just $55.4 billion.
Pushing overseas investors out of equities is the decline of the dollar against the Japanese yen and the German mark. The dollar is down 11.2 percent against the yen from its Aug. 11 high; it is down 4.8 percent against the mark in the same period.
When foreign investors buy American stocks, they subject their portfolios to currency risk in addition to the risk that the shares will decline. As the dollar weakens, foreigners' investments lose ground, even if the prices of the underlying shares remain the same. When the stocks themselves fall, the foreign investor is doubly hurt.
Mr. Shaughnessy says he thinks foreign selling of stocks began in earnest on July 21. That was the day Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, testified before Congress, saying investors' expectations for continued high levels of corporate earnings growth had risen to possibly unsustainable levels. "Foreign investors either stopped buying then or they started to sell," Mr. Shaughnessy said.
Foreign selling of American stocks is likely to continue through the end of the month. That's because Sept. 30 is the end of the first half of Japan's fiscal year. "In September and March, Japanese investors tend to move into cash," explained Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. "They take profits as best they can." Since they have big losses in Japanese stocks, they'll probably be selling American stocks. It also means that unless big buyers emerge elsewhere to support stocks here, investors can expect further weakness.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Buying Less" shows foreign purchases of U.S. stocks, from 1995 through 1998.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (52%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON ADVISORS INC (66%); AMG DATA SERVICES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); US 401K PLANS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); GERMAN MARK (75%); US DOLLAR (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



348 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2940 words

HEADLINE: In Texas, a Laboratory Test on the Effects of Suing H.M.O.'s

BYLINE: By CAROL MARIE CROPPER 

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
TO hear lobbyists and lawmakers in Washington tell it, giving patients the right to sue insurers that refuse to approve medical treatment would be either the death of managed care or the salvation of patients.
If Federal protection against such suits is eliminated, "you'd have businesses dropping health care coverage right and left," warned Mark Merritt, a vice president of the American Association of Health Plans. 
 Supporters of such a change argue that it is the fair thing to do. "If you make a medical decision affecting patient care, you've got to be responsible for it," said John Stone, a spokesman for Representative Charlie Norwood, the Georgia Republican who sponsored an early liability bill, which has been stuck in a House committee.
Under the banner of patients' rights, a new set of bills is under consideration in Congress; some of which would allow a broader range of legal actions against health maintenance organizations and other employer health plans. And as Congress takes up the proposals, many eyes are on Texas, where the ability to file such suits, as well as a separate process to appeal insurance decisions, has been available for more than a year.
What lessons does Texas offer? The short answer is that the spotty early evidence does not support a lot of the dire warnings on Capitol Hill about a landslide of litigation. In fact, lawyers in Texas say that not one suit has been filed so far, and there have been fewer appeals of insurance rulings than expected. Still, decisions in fully half of those appeals have gone against the insurers.
Doctors here in Texas, meanwhile, report that H.M.O.'s -- which have been the focus of the most criticism -- are showing more willingness to go along with their treatment plans. Yet figures reported to the state by health plans indicate that medical costs have not begun to spiral.
It was stories like that of Leon Hand that persuaded a Texas lawmaker, State Senator David Sibley of Waco, to push through the nation's first legislation expressly allowing malpractice suits against H.M.O.'s and other insurers. Mr. Hand, a 49-year-old auto mechanic in San Antonio, left a Humana hospital before dawn in the fall of 1990 after a managed-care doctor decided by phone that he did not need to be admitted for a severe headache and high blood pressure, even though an emergency room physician said he should stay. As he was getting into his pickup truck, Mr. Hand said he suffered the first symptoms of a stroke. His left side has been partly paralyzed ever since, and Mr. Hand says he is disabled for life.
Mr. Hand sued the Humana Health Plan of Texas but soon learned that such a case would be pushed from state to Federal court, where a Federal law would shield his employer-sponsored health plan from virtually all liability.
MR. HAND settled with Humana for $100,000. He also collected $275,000 from the managed-care doctor and a token $150 from the emergency physician who had tried to get him admitted.
In answering Mr. Hand's suit, the health plan denied his allegations and added that any claims against it were barred by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or Erisa. Bruce Anderson, a lawyer for the managed-care doctor, said there was no way to have predicted Mr. Hand's stroke. He added that the emergency room physician could have called another doctor to try to have Mr. Hand admitted, since he was covered by a less-restrictive preferred provider organization rather than by an H.M.O.
In any case, under the malpractice shield of Erisa, Mr. Hand probably would have been able to collect only the cost of the denied treatment plus court costs and legal fees -- if anything. It is that shield that Texas has tried to pierce.
Now, under a bill sponsored by Senate Democrats in Washington, all states would be given the freedom to adopt similar laws. That measure, as well as competing Republican "patient rights" bills without such liability provisions, are pending before Congress. The Norwood bill is not under active consideration.
Proponents of exposing H.M.O.'s to such lawsuits say a health plan should not be exempt from liability for a life-and-death decision. They say an H.M.O. is practicing medicine when, in a quest to contain costs, it decides not only whether a plan covers a type of treatment but also whether the treatment is necessary for a particular patient.
Now, "if the lack of care kills you," Mr. Stone said, "you can only recover the cost of the care."
The goal of the Erisa protection, which applies only to employer-sponsored health plans, was to keep multistate corporations from having to tangle with a mass of state regulations. Opponents of easing that protection say it would lead to more litigation and higher premiums and leave fewer Americans with health insurance. Changing Erisa, they argue, would mean suits not only against H.M.O.'s but also against employers who provide the insurance.
The bills before Congress also propose independent reviews that would let patients appeal insurance rejections without suing. Here, too, Texas is among at least 14 states that have led the way. The 1997 Texas law allowing lawsuits also established an independent review process that is binding on the H.M.O.
TEXANS like State Senator Sibley -- who is a a former oral surgeon and a practicing lawyer -- have testified before Congressional committees on the state's law and have traveled nationwide to speak to others considering such measures.
"We have circumnavigated the United States about 10 times," said Kim Ross, a spokeswoman for the Texas Medical Association, which represents the state's doctors and lobbied for the legislation.
Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a national organization for health care consumers, said, "The Texas example is cited frequently because Texas has the most far-reaching legislation as far as this litigation question."
True, some Texas H.M.O.'s say they are losing money and will have to raise premiums, but they are suffering mainly from their battle to underbid competitors and gain market share, said George Parker Young, a lawyer in Fort Worth who handles suits against H.M.O.'s. The bill "has not added one dime to the litigation budget of the H.M.O.'s, because not one lawsuit has been filed," Mr. Young said.
Not yet, anyway. Mr. Young concedes that he is planning to file two lawsuits soon. And Jeff Kloster, general counsel for the Texas Association of Health Plans, a trade association for insurers, points to newspaper ads run by Texas lawyers seeking patients as clients and to conferences held around the state to educate trial lawyers about the new law. "There will be lawsuits," he said.
Even the law's proponents -- who, for the most part, say they do not expect an onslaught -- acknowledge that it is probably a matter of time before some suits arise. The bill took effect on Sept. 1, 1997, leaving little more than a year for patients to suffer injuries, contact lawyers and prepare suits. Texas law generally gives victims two years to sue.
Mr. Young said one of the suits he was preparing involved the family of a 68-year-old man whose H.M.O. decided he was ready to be released from a psychiatric ward despite his history of suicide attempts. The night he was released, he drank antifreeze and died soon afterward, Mr. Young said.
One reason for the slow start on litigation is uncertainty over how open the field is for litigation. Questions remain about whether the state law can erase the presumed Federal protections without Congressional action. Before the Texas law went into effect, the Aetna Life Insurance Company and its Texas subsidiaries challenged the measure in Federal District Court in Houston. That suit is pending.
Even the bill's sponsor, Dr. Sibley, is unsure of the extent to which it applies to Erisa-protected plans, which may cover as many as 80 percent of Texans with private, employer-provided insurance. Not subject to Erisa are those covered by government employee plans, government programs like Medicare, policies bought by individuals and some small-employer plans.
To complicate matters, some Erisa employer plans are more protected than others. States have less power to regulate self-insured employer plans -- which are widespread among the largest employers -- than ones bought from insurance companies.
Without Congressional action, the question of whether Texas's law skirts Erisa protection may have to be decided in court.
In responding to the Aetna suit, Texas argued that its law made H.M.O.'s liable only for "medical treatment decisions" that affect the quality of patient care and therefore was not pre-empted by Federal law. "Congress never intended to pre-empt states from regulating people that make medical decisions," said David C. Mattax, an assistant attorney general in Texas.
In fact, some Federal circuit courts have ruled that Erisa protections should not apply in cases where the health plan made a decision involving quality of care issues. So even without new laws, Erisa's protection may narrow.
And the Texas law is also intended to demolish one argument that H.M.O.'s have used to avoid liability. Like some other states, Texas bars the practice of medicine by corporations; insurers have used that provision to argue against malpractice suits, saying that because they are forbidden to practice medicine, they cannot be sued for malpractice.
But critics question that logic. "It's like being stopped by a cop for speeding and you say, 'Well, officer, I couldn't possibly have been speeding because it's against the law in Texas to speed,' " said Elizabeth Kilbride, a Houston lawyer who handles medical malpractice cases.
The new law removes that argument, Dr. Sibley said; Missouri made a similar change.
The Texas law has also not resulted in the expected number of appeals from patients who are denied treatment by insurers.
The Texas Insurance Department forecast as many as 4,400 appeals the first year. But by Sept. 4, just more than a year after the law took effect, there had been only 218.
Is this because H.M.O.'s were already doing a good job? Or because the new law has made them more responsive? Or because patients just haven't heard about their right to appeal? The answers depend on whom you ask.
Mr. Kloster, of the Texas Association of Health Plans, points to the myriad internal appeals that were already available. The low number of appeals to the state, he said, "is a recognition that the internal appeals and complaints process has always and continues to work effectively."
But proponents of the appeals emphasize that about half the independent review organization's decisions have gone against insurers. "We're finding out the H.M.O. is wrong half the time," Mr. Young said. "That's pretty scary."
And Phil Dunne, chief executive of the Texas Medical Foundation, the only outside organization certified by the state Insurance Department to perform reviews, said in an interview in August: "Would you be confident if 50 percent of the time you went to a hospital or a physician or health care provider you didn't get what you needed?"
While there have been relatively few independent appeals, the number of complaints to the Insurance Department is up sharply.
The independent review organization has overruled insurers and granted surgery to repair a chest-wall deformity for a 4-year-old; a kidney transplant for a 51-year-old woman, and a second circumcision for a 9-month-old to correct a botched first one.
It sided with insurers and turned down a 23-year-old diabetic who wanted a special insulin injection unit because he feared needles; a 21-year-old with a deformed head who requested surgery, and a 48-year-old with ovarian cancer who asked for high-dose chemotherapy.
ONE patient who won her appeal was Dora Cisneros, 34, of Tomball, just north of Houston, who said she suffered from chronic pain since being treated for a hyperactive thyroid two years ago. She appealed her health plan's denial of training in "chronic pain management" so she could cope without resorting to strong drugs.
Fifteen days after the case went into independent review, Ms. Cisneros prevailed. "I felt like I had won the lottery," she said. "I was just so thankful that somebody that reviewed this could see that this was beneficial. Thank God that we live in Texas."
Ms. Cisneros said she went for her first pain-management training session on Aug. 5. By Aug. 25, "I was able to open up my apple juice."
"I was so excited," she said. "I feel strength coming back."
A spokesman for her managed-care plan, Jefferson Pilot Financial, said it had no comment.
At the organization that conducts reviews, the Texas Medical Foundation, a doctor in the appropriate medical specialty goes over the record and then makes a decision, Mr. Dunne said. The specialist might consult with other experts but does not talk to the patient or doctor involved, he said. Under Texas law, the insurer pays the cost of the review, which is $460 or $650, depending on the specialty.
While Ms. Cisneros was pleased with the way her appeal was handled, some others are skeptical of the process.
"How can anyone evaluate anyone properly without seeing them one on one?" asked James C. Benson, a Houston lawyer who represents another patient who went through the process. "If it's just a records review, how is that any different than an insurance review?"
The Texas Medical Foundation has a response. "You're getting an outside entity to evaluate that medical record, and that entity doesn't have an interest in the outcome," said Rhonda Eidom, a spokeswoman.
Despite the lack of suits, some Texans say insurers have already changed the way they do business to avoid lawsuits and reviews.
Dr. Phil Berry, an orthopedic surgeon in Dallas, said insurers were less likely to drag their feet in approving a procedure or to give his staff members the runaround. "We have seen a much better attitude on the part of H.M.O.'s now as to recommendations we make for patients," he said. "They seem to be more willing to pay for what we ask for."
Keith Kouba, a lobbyist for the Texas Association of Business and Chambers of Commerce, also suspects that Texas insurers have become more liberal in approving treatment. But that does not make him happy. "We're looking at basically going back to indemnity insurance days where insurers paid for whatever the physician asked for," he said. "We're going to be back to the era of defensive medicine where there is double-digit medical inflation. Business cannot sustain that."
While there are anecdotal reports that insurers are paying for more procedures, even some unnecessary ones, insurance department statistics through the end of March suggest otherwise. The state's full-service H.M.O.'s reported an increase of only seven-tenths of 1 percent in the amount spent on medical expenses for each member per month from the end of September 1997, compared with a 4.5 percent increase the previous six months.
A national survey this year by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health care philanthropy, and Harvard University found that 55 percent of respondents said they were at least "somewhat worried" that if they were sick their health plan would be more concerned about saving money than about the best treatment. Sixty-four percent said they favored a law allowing patients to sue health plans for malpractice, and 88 percent wanted a law requiring independent reviews. Support dropped when those polled were faced with the prospect of employers' stopping coverage or insurers' raising premiums.
In Washington, there is a wide gulf between the estimates of what such protections would cost.
The Congressional Budget Office reported that the Democratic bill's liability provision would add 1.2 percent to insurance premiums. Its independent review process would add three-tenths of a percent, the agency said.
A study conducted by the Barents Group of KPMG Peat Marwick for the American Association of Health Plans predicted that the liability provision in Representative Norwood's bill could push up premiums as much as 8.6 percent and result in a loss of health insurance for 1.8 million Americans. The insurance trade group says the same analysis would apply to the Senate Democrats' legislation, which has a similar provision. Sixty-seven percent of employers responding to a Chamber survey in July said they would drop employee health coverage if Congress approved legislation that could make them liable in malpractice suits.
IN Texas, Dr. Sibley, who won a Friend of Business award in 1995 from the Texas Association of Business and Chambers of Commerce for his role in passing tort reform, said he hoped Congress would reject all the bills. Dr. Sibley said he feared that the bill from House Republican leaders would undo what Texas had done. The Democratic bill would open businesses as well as insurers to liability, he said.
Mr. Stone and others suspect that nothing will happen during this session, which is scheduled to end on Oct. 9. The Republican leadership does not want added patient protections, he said, and the Democrats would be just as happy to keep the issue alive to use in coming elections.
Support is growing to simply watch Texas for the next two years to see what happens there, he said.
So far, the Lone Star State yields little that is definitive for either side.
"I don't think we'll see the true impact until the Erisa pre-emption goes away -- if it goes away -- and we see lawsuits filed," said Mr. Kloster of the state health plan association.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leon Hand suffered a stroke after an H.M.O. doctor refused to admit him to a hospital, but found that Federal law shielded his plan. He took a nap at his San Antonio home. (Bryce S. Harper for The New York Times); Dora Cisneros in pain-management training last week in Houston. She successfully appealed her health plan's denial of the therapy after being treated for a hyperactive thyroid. (Photographs by F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
 
Chart: "Comparing 'Patient Bill of Rights' Proposals"
Three bills pending in Congress would, among other provisions, give patients new rights to sue health plans or to seek independent review when an insurer denies treatment.
 
SPONSORED BY
Senate Bill 1890
Senate Democrats
 
LIABILITY
Lets states pass laws giving patients the right to sue health plans governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or Erisa, for personal injury and wrongful death. Employers may be held liable, as well, if they exercise discretionary authority over the actions that led to a suit.
 
INDEPENDENT REVIEW
Allows patients to appeal if the treatment cost excIndependent
revieweeds a significant threshold, to be set later, or if patient's life or health is in jeopardy. Decisions are binding on the insurer, but patients can choose to sue. The insurer pays for the review.
 
ADDED COST
Premiums will rise 1.2 percent, according to the Congressional Budget Office, or from 2.7 to 8.6 percent*, according to a study done for an insurance lobby.
 
SPONSORED BY
House Bill 4250
Republican House Leadership
 
LIABILITY
Keeps current bars on Erisa lawsuits intact. Might nullify state liability laws, like Texas's. Allows civil penalties of $500 a day or $1,000 a day, up to $250,000 total, if an Erisa plan disregards an independent review decision, then loses in court.
Sets $250,000 caps on punitive and so-called noneconomic damages like pain and suffering for traditional malpractice suits.
 
INDEPENDENT REVIEW
Allowed for Erisa plans. Decisions are not binding, but expose health plan to civil penalties of up to $250,000 if disregarded and later upheld in court. Patients pay $25 to $100 for review.
 
ADDED COST
Damage caps would reduce premiums by 0.3 to 0.5 percent, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
 
Sponsored by
Senate Bill 2330
Senate Republicans
 
LIABILITY
No provision.
 
INDEPENDENT REVIEW
For Erisa plans, allows reviews of claims of more than $1,000 or of denials of investigational treatments for life- threatening illnesses. Binding on health plan, but patient can sue. Insurer pays the cost.
 
ADDED COST
Not applicable.
 
*Based on study done on earlier House bill with similar provision. (pg. 9)
 
Chart: "Cost of Litigation"
Estimates of the increase in health plan premiums nationwide if patients were free to sue insurers for denials of care far exceed the early experience in Texas, where such suits have been allowed for the last year.
 
ACTUAL COST IN TEXAS (September 1997 - March 1998)
 
Increase in total spending per member per month of full-service H.M.O.'s reported by the Texas Department of Insurance: +0.1%
 
PROJECTED COSTS UNDER SENATE DEMOCRATS' PROPOSAL
 
Congressional Budget Office analysis: +1.2%
 
Barents Group analysis of similar bill introduced last year by Representative Charlie Norwood, Republican of Georgia: +8.6%
(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HUMANA HEALTH PLAN OF TEXAS INC (60%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PARALYSIS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAWYERS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); STROKES (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); HYPERTENSION (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (58%); 

PERSON: HAND, LEON; CISNEROS, DORA; CROPPER, CAROL MARIE JOHN RICHARD NICHOLAS STONE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



349 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/Covert Action;
All the President Had to Do Was Ask; The C.I.A. Took Aim at Allende

BYLINE: By Tim Weiner 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FROM 1970 to 1973, the United States sought to overthrow the Government of Chile and its democratically elected President, Salvador Allende, whom it deemed a Marxist threat to American interests. Under orders from President Richard M. Nixon, the Central Intelligence Agency mounted a full-tilt covert operation to keep Dr. Allende from taking office and, when that failed, undertook subtler efforts to undermine him. Those efforts "never really ended," the C.I.A.'s director of operations at the time, Thomas Karamessines, later told Senate investigators.
Twenty-five years ago this week, on Sept. 11, 1973, the Chilean military seized power, The junta, under Gen. Augusto Pinochet, ruled until 1990. Its death squads murdered more than 3,000 people, and it jailed and tortured thousands more. Chile is still trying to come to terms with the damage done to its democratic institutions. 
 The declassified Government documents excerpted below were collected by the National Security Archive, a nonprofit research group in Washington that has sought to uncover secret records since 1985. They were posted on its website (www.seas.gwu.edu/nsarchive) on Friday. They show how much the United States was committed to thwarting Mr. Allende even before he took office, and they illustrate a fact that was not well understood during the cold war: The C.I.A. very rarely acted as a rogue elephant. When it plotted coups and shipped guns to murderous colonels, it did so on orders from the President. TIM WEINER
 
 United States Ambassador Edward Korry, in a cable titled "No Hopes for Chile'," advised Washington on Sept. 8, 1970:
Civility is the dominant characteristic of Chilean life . . . And civility is what makes almost certain the triumph of the very uncivil Allende. Neither the President nor the Armed Forces have the stomach for the violence they fear would be the consequence of intervention.
The Ambassador followed up on Sept. 11 with a new cable, "The Communists Take Over Chile."
There is a graveyard smell to Chile, the fumes of a democracy in decomposition. They stank in my nostrils in Czechoslovakia in 1948 and they are no less sickening today.
On Sept. 15, Richard M. Helms, Director of Central Intelligence, took handwritten notes at a White House meeting with President Richard M. Nixon, Attorney General John Mitchell and the national security adviser, Henry M. Kissinger.
1 in 10 chance perhaps, but save Chile! . . worth spending . . . not concerned risks involved . . . no involvement of embassy . . . $10,000,000 available, more if necessary . . . full-time job -- best men we have . . . game plan . . . make the economy scream . . . 48 hours for plan of action
On Sept. 16, William V. Broe, chief of the C.I.A.'s Western Hemisphere division, met with Mr. Helms and other senior C.I.A. officers.
The Director of Central Intelligence told the group that President Nixon had decided that an Allende regime in Chile was not acceptable to the United States. The President asked the Agency to prevent Allende from coming to power or to unseat him. The President authorized ten million dollars for this purpose, if needed. Further, the Agency is to carry out this mission without coordination with the Departments of State or Defense. . . . The Director said he had been asked by Dr. Henry Kissinger . . . to meet with him on Friday, 18 September, to give him the Agency's views on how this mission could be accomplished.
On Oct. 16, a cable went out from C.I.A. headquarters to Henry Heckscher, C.I.A. station chief in Santiago, Chile, who had doubts about the plots.
It is firm and continuing policy that Allende be overthrown by a coup. It would be much preferable to have this transpire prior to 24 October but efforts in this regard will continue vigorously beyond this date. We are to continue to generate maximum pressure toward this end utilizing every appropriate resource. It is imperative that these actions be implemented clandestinely and securely so that the United States Government and American hand be well hidden. . . . Please review all your present and possibly new activities to include propaganda, black operations, surfacing of intelligence or disinformation, personal contacts, or anything else your imagination can conjure which will permit you to press forward toward our deleted objective.
Plans were already in motion. Five days earlier, on Oct. 11, Mr. Broe sent this cable from C.I.A. headquarters to the Santiago station:
SUB-MACHINE GUNS AND AMMO BEING SENT BY REGULAR deleted COURIER LEAVING WASHINGTON 0700 HOURS 19 OCTOBER DUE ARRIVE SANTIAGO LATE EVENING 20 OCTOBER OR EARLY MORNING 21 OCTOBER.
The United States did not spur the Chilean military to act, but it was not for want of trying, as shown by an internal C.I.A. report, "Chilean Task Force Activities," dated Nov.18.
On 15 September 1970, C.I.A. was directed to try to prevent Marxist Salvador Allende's ascent to the Chilean Presidency. . . . A military coup increasingly suggested itself as the only possible solution to the Allende problem. Anti-Allende currents did exist in the military and the Carabineros, but were immobilized by the tradition of military respect for the Constitution. . . . The C.I.A.'s propaganda efforts included special intelligence and "inside" briefings given to U.S. journalists. . . . Particularly noteworthy in this connection was the Time cover story which owed a great deal to written materials and briefings provided by C.I.A. . . . C.I.A. briefings in Washington deleted changed the basic thrust of the story in the final stages according to another Time correspondent. It provoked Allende to complain on 13 October, "We are suffering the most brutal and horrible pressure, both domestic and international," singling out Time in particular as having "openly called" for an invasion of Chile.
Another report, "Postmortem on the Chilean Presidential Election," by Mr. Helms to Gen. Alexander Haig, Mr. Kissinger's military aide, weighed the stakes.
On 3 November 1970, Dr. Salvador Allende became the first democratically elected Marxist head of state in the history of Latin America -- despite the opposition of the U.S. Government. As a result, U.S. prestige and interests in Latin America and, to some extent, elsewhere are being affected materially at a time when the U.S. can ill afford problems in an area that has traditionally been accepted as the U.S. "backyard."
From November 1970 until September 1973, when the military seized power, the C.I.A. spent $8 million undermining President Allende. When the coup came, the United States knew about the plans and encouraged them, but played no direct role . Three weeks later, a United States military intelligence officer reconstructed the day
D-DAY 11 SEPTEMBER
H-HOUR 0600
Chile's coup d'etat was close to perfect. Unfortunately, "close" only counts in horseshoes and hand grenades. . . . Original plan called for President Allende to be held incommunicado in his home until the coup was a fait accompli. H-hour delay in Santiago permitted Allende to be alerted at 0730. Allende immediately dashed to the palace . . . where he had access to radio communications facilities which permitted him to personally implore "workers and students, come to the Moneda and defend your Government against the Armed Forces." The hour was 0830. . . . Military had all roads to Santiago blocked. Lid was on TIGHT inside city. Everyone on streets not wearing right color jersey stood an excellent chance of getting shot. Allende managed to personally broadcast two "MAYDAY" messages. The first, at 0830, sounded strong and confident as he summoned the workers and students. The second at 0945 sounded morose, almost as if he was preparing the eulogy for his dying government. It was his last broadcast as the Air Force soon located and rocketed his antennae. The hour was 1015. . . .
Allende was found alone and dead in his office off the inner courtyard. He had killed himself by placing a sub-machine gun under his chin and pulling the trigger. Messy, but efficient. The gun was lying near his body. A gold metal plate imbedded in the stock was inscribed "To my good friend Salvador Allende from Fidel Castro." Obviously Communist Cuba had sent one too many guns to Chile for their own good. The hour was 1345. . . .
Semper Fidelis
Patrick J. Ryan
Lieutenant Colonel, USMC
Postscript: After 17 years as Chile's dictator, General Pinochet relinquished power to a civilian government in 1990. But he remained commander in chief of the armed forces, stepping down from that post only last March. In a farewell ceremony, the old general praised the armed forces as "the savior of democracy" in Chile.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Allende (left) preparing a defense in the Presidential Palace on the day of the coup.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHILE (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE; CHILE (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; CLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS COUPS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MURDER (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); 

PERSON: ALLENDE, SALVADOR; WEINER, TIM; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94); PINOCHET, AUGUSTO (GEN) RICHARD NIXON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



350 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Traditionalist vs. Modernizers;
Two Dueling Sons of the South

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
HISTORIANS will, no doubt, analyze the blood feud between Bill Clinton and Kenneth W. Starr in many ways -- as a showdown over politics and law, of constitutional issues and human ones.
But a look at both men's roots suggests another possible prism -- a duel between Southerners, each representing competing instincts of the South, that has dragged the nation into a morally charged meltdown of sin, repentance and redemption. 
 Mr. Clinton and Mr. Starr were born months apart in Hope, Ark., and Vernon, Tex. Both were bright and ambitious, headed to Washington for college, went on to law school and eventually returned to Washington, one bound for the White House, the other aiming for the Supreme Court. Both share a conspicuous religiosity, though of a very different strain, and the sort of compulsive accent on manners that still defines the South.
So much for similarities. Mr. Clinton veered left, politically and culturally, becoming a familiar Southern hybrid -- part grown-up, part rogue -- introduced to the country in the 1992 campaign as a mix of Elvis Presley and John F. Kennedy. Mr. Starr began college at arch-conservative Harding University in Searcy, Ark., and never strayed from his strict, straight-arrow, Church of Christ upbringing.
In his 1990 book, "Tar Heel Politics" (University of North Carolina), Paul Luebke, a North Carolina state representative and a sociologist, argues that Southern politics is not about liberals and conservatives but about traditionalists and modernizers. He distinguishes between politicians like Mr. Clinton, who focus on education and economic development, and those like North Carolina Senator Jesse Helms, who focus on traditional economic interests and social values.
But the distinction also describes a philosophical difference between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Starr, with Mr. Starr, by all accounts, a moral traditionalist to the core, and Mr. Clinton, to put it charitably, having a more elastic moral code.
Sin and infidelity did not originate with baby boomers. And no one but Mr. Starr can fully understand what motivated him to go where some other prosecutors would not have gone. But Mr. Luebke said it was impossible to understand Mr. Starr's investigation without understanding the traditional religious culture of the South.
According to that view, Mr. Starr's pursuit not just of a sinner but an apostate Southerner willfully cloaked in the robes of religion might help explain Mr. Starr's investigation to some associates who have said they found his zealous, unrelenting pursuit of Mr. Clinton out of character.
"I drove by a Free Will Baptist Church the other day where the sign in front read, 'Sin Is Our Greatest Problem,' " Mr. Luebke said. "A lot of people have underestimated how far this could go because they didn't have a Southern perspective. If you're Europe-centric and you think of Mitterrand, you think, what's the big deal? If you come from a culture in which sin is our greatest problem, then Mitterrand is completely irrelevant."
Similarly Charles Reagan Wilson, a historian at the University of Mississippi, said the Lewinsky matter was playing out along the main themes of Southern religion, with Mr. Starr upholding the Calvinist view of morality at the heart of his Church of Christ background and Mr. Clinton seeking grace and forgiveness for his transgressions in a spectacle as familiar to Southerners as cornbread and iced tea.
"It's almost as if you have the Old Testament in Starr and the New Testament in Clinton," he said. "One is invoking the Old Testament religion of law, the other the New Testament of grace, love and understanding."
There may be better lenses for understanding the crisis, but its Southern tinge is hard to miss at a time when the President, Vice President, House Speaker, House majority leader, House majority whip and Senate majority leader are all from the South. Mr. Starr began his tenure amid furious controversy when it was revealed that David Sentelle, the conservative North Carolinian and protege of Mr. Helms who heads the special appellate council that appointed Mr. Starr, met with Mr. Helms and Senator Lauch Faircloth of North Carolina before appointing Mr. Starr.
Once aggrieved Southerners fought duels over such differences. Now, perhaps they precipitate constitutional crises over them.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Southern roots define competing strains in Kenneth W. Starr, left, and Mr. Clinton. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times; Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); HISTORY (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); ETHICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); SOCIOLOGY (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STARR, KENNETH W; APPLEBOME, PETER BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



351 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: The World: Gaining Currency;
The Invisible Hand's New Strong Arm

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
LONG before the Asian economic crisis threatened a broader global meltdown, American officials saw a silver lining in all those plunging markets and dissolving currencies. The world, it said, was beginning to see the benefits of unfettered, American-style capitalism.
For a while it looked like a convincing argument. When South Korea needed emergency Western aid, the quid pro quo was an agreement to lift restrictions that had long kept foreign competitors at bay, in everything from computers to financial services. Politicians around the world reluctantly went along with the Washington orthodoxy that if they stopped meddling in the markets and let international investors move money freely in and out of their countries, it would help restore confidence. 
 It was a compelling pitch -- for a year or so. But now, after some of the West's brightest ideas for engineering economic recovery have gone up in flames, a few countries are marching the other way. As more of the world's markets come unhinged -- last week the contagion hit Brazil full force, and many now worry that the rest of Latin America could succumb as well -- there is a modest revolt under way against one of the biggest trends of the 1980's and 1990's, the view that money should move unimpeded around the world, to the places where it can be used most efficiently.
So far the revolt is contained to a few small economies: Malaysia and Hong Kong, both of which have long been darlings of American companies seeking a base in Asia, and Russia, a country that talked incessantly about reform but never adopted the mindset of a market economy.
 
Regulating Russia
 Russia's latest Prime Minister, Yevgeny Primakov, gave voice to his country's doubts about economic reform on Friday, the day the Russian Parliament confirmed him in office, when he asked: "What must we do? Repeat the wild capitalism that we had until now?" The answer, he said vaguely, was that "the Government should intervene into economic affairs and regulate them," but he insisted that effort would be more akin to Franklin D. Roosevelt's actions during the Depression than to Soviet-style controls.
All this amounts to a direct challenge to one of the few clear themes of President Clinton's foreign policy: that the American push for more open markets and freer trade will not only bolster American prosperity, it will also pave the way to more open societies and democratization. After all, commerce and interchange with the West is the force that is supposed to open up China gradually, to say nothing of rebuilding Russia and spreading democracy in Asia and Latin America.
Of course, real life is a lot messier. The United States deeply interfered with the workings of its economy for most of its history, and it still does in times of crisis. And China and Singapore are prime examples of how free markets can thrive under authoritarian rule.
But two years ago it was hard to find finance ministers who would argue -- on a theoretical level, at least -- that their countries should cut themselves off from the global capital markets. After all, they were standing at the spigot, soaking up investments from around the world. Now that the foreign money is pouring out in torrents -- a development that is producing unemployment, inflation, political upheaval and painful recession -- the global economy looks a lot more like a global sinkhole.
And suddenly politicians and economists are noting that the countries that have fared best in these times of crisis -- China and Chile, for example -- are also countries that have imposed rules that make it difficult for investors to buy and sell local currencies with abandon.
Suddenly many believe that the best way to practice capitalism is to make sure that once the capital pours in it can't pour out all at once.
"It's only a bit of an overstatement to say that the free-market I.M.F. Bob Rubin and Larry Summers model is in shambles," said John S. Wadsworth Jr., who runs Morgan Stanley's operations in Asia, referring to the Treasury Secretary and his deputy. "At this point the problems are so serious that politicians figure that trying anything else is better."
The most direct assault, not surprisingly, has come from the fiery leader of Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad. A year ago he was the first to blame Asia's troubles on a vague conspiracy of Western financiers: At various times he blamed speculators, currency traders, unnamed Wall Street powerhouses and, of course, George Soros. But all the while he kept accepting International Monetary Fund-style remedies, drastically cutting spending and hiking interest rates. Until 10 days ago, when it became clear that Malaysia's once-vibrant economy was entering its deepest crisis since the country's Communist Emergency, a cold war skirmish that shook the country 30 years ago.
In one stroke, Mr. Mahathir fired his Western-thinking Finance Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, who was also Mr. Mahathir's heir apparent. Then he shut Malaysia off from the world currency markets, declaring that any of the country's currency held outside its borders would be worthless. That made it impossible for currency traders to deal in the ringitt outside Malaysia, where Mr. Mahathir can control the transactions. It also made it somewhat more difficult for foreign giants, including Coca-Cola and Intel and Motorola, to take profits out of the country.
"The only way to manage the economy is to insulate from currency speculators and traders," Mr. Mahathir said, speaking darkly about the possibility that Malaysia's downturn might tear apart the delicate fabric of the country's society, an uneasy mix of Malays -- who are mostly Islamic -- and ethnic Chinese. "The free market has failed disastrously because of abuses."
 
Watching Malaysia
 Naturally, Mr. Mahathir was denounced in capitals around the world as an economic retrograde. In Washington, some officials quietly expressed the hope that his experiment would fail so spectacularly that the smoldering ruins of the Malaysian economy would act as a caution to other countries. But while many of Mr. Mahathir's Asian neighbors assured the I.M.F. that they would not follow the Mahathir path, they were also watching carefully to see if he would succeed. He almost certainly will stop the devastating fall of his currency. The question is whether he will also scare off the international investors who turned his country's old plantations into gleaming factories that became the envy of Asia.
Mr. Mahathir went to an extreme, but the same notion has infected the city that was once the embodiment of unfettered markets: Hong Kong. With its trade-dependent economy in free fall, and its currency under attack by speculators who use the Hong Kong dollar as a proxy to place their bets about China, the Hong Kong authorities began spending the region's huge reserves to prop up the stock market. They also adopted rules to make it harder for speculators to bet against the Hong Kong dollar.
A top official of the Government, Andrew Sheng, rushed to Washington last week to make the case that Hong Kong was not abandoning the free market. It was just making sure, he said, that the region was not destabilized as billions upon billions of dollars that came gradually into Hong Kong head for the exits all at once.
"We are addressing a situation the world has never seen before," he insisted. "The stresses and strains of flows of money create a danger of destabilization." But he could not help adding, "There is now a healthy debate about whether the Washington consensus about how to solve the world's economic problems will really work."
The truth is that the "Washington consensus" itself is fraying, as Mr. Clinton's team -- distracted by scandal, overwhelmed by other foreign problems -- searches for new approaches to contain an increasingly global economic crisis that refuses to be quelled. Curiously, officials here are less vociferous than ever in their opposition to some kinds of controls on the flow of capital. A little more than a year ago, for example, the Treasury was urging the Chinese, for example, to make their currency completely convertible. No one has repeated that advice recently.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Indonesia, poor people pound coins into jewelry as the country is caught in economic crisis. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TRENDS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



352 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: SEPTEMBER 6-12;
The Dow Feels the Yo-Yo Effect

BYLINE: By Edward Wyatt

 BODY:
The stock market has given investors more than a few jolts lately, but some bumps aren't what they used to be.
On Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average fell nearly 100 points in the first 15 minutes of trading, then turned on a dime and in the next 20 minutes shot up more than 200 points from its low. The turnaround came as President Clinton, appearing at a televised prayer breakfast, asked Monica S. Lewinsky and her family for forgiveness. 
 The Dow finished up 179.96 points, at 7,795.50. It was the fourth consecutive trading session -- and eighth in the last 10 trading days -- in which the Dow rose or fell by more than 100 points.
Clearly the stock market is in turmoil. But is the market's recent volatility any worse than at other times of political and economic uncertainty?
By one measure of volatility -- how often the Dow has risen or fallen by more than 1 percent in a single day -- the year so far is the market's most volatile in more than a decade. In fact, 1998 isn't out of line with previous periods of extreme ups and downs -- like 1987, when the stock market crashed, or 1980, when the silver market crashed.
There is no shortage of causes for the recent swings in the Dow. Faltering economies in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America have begun to put a squeeze on the profits of American companies, causing investors to fear that the seven-year economic boom could be coming to an end. In addition, uncertainty about Mr. Clinton's problems has caused big market gyrations.
But there's also a psychological dimension: Many investors are only beginning to get used to triple-digit fluctuations in the Dow's close. In 1987, a swing of 100 points equaled 4 percent of the Dow. When the index peaked above 9,000 in July, the same 100-point move represented little more than 1 percent. Still a bit unnerving, but hardly cause for panic. EDWARD WYATT

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Swing Time" shows the percentage of days that the Dow Jones industrial average moved up or down by more than 1 percent from the previous day's close, from '80 to '98 (Source: Birinyi Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SILVER MARKETS (73%); RELIGION (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



353 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: The World: Politics and Business;
The Chancellor's Game: Follow the Real Leaders

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: BONN

 BODY:
GERMANY'S most important election in decades will take place two weeks from today and the striking thing is this: Whoever wins will inherit a land where the pace has already been set for them, not so much by politicians as by the barons of big business.
Almost nine years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, that is not entirely a surprise: As in the United States or Britain, ideology has lost its primacy, yielding to a contest among rival politicians to define and capture the post-ideological center. 
 But in Germany, there is another departure as well. This has long been the land of the cartel, of compacts and consensus that brought workers into the boardrooms and, at the same time, bound banks and businesses and politicians of all stripes in a sheltered covenant of enormous prosperity. But the compact was underpinned by a huge and costly social network that gradually hampered Germany's competitiveness. And these days, many large companies have simply decided to pursue their own interests within and beyond Germany's borders, often supplanting the politicians in framing the way Germans and foreigners alike perceive the German nation.
 
Transatlantic Reach
Consider, for example, German-American relations, which were once propelled almost exclusively by cold-war security considerations; if Germany prospered, it was as an ally and a showcase of capitalism, under the American economic as well as nuclear umbrella. But by last May, the relationship had clearly taken on a new flavor; the takeover of Chrysler by Daimler-Benz showed a German assertiveness that had long been held in check. "This is clearly the result of the end of the cold war and the globalized economy," said a legislator in Bonn.
The transatlantic relationship, in which many politicians still tread gently as the deferential junior partner to Washington's military and political initiatives, has been re-textured by the unmistakable whiff of German economic might. Key players in the New York publishing industry are owned by Germany's media giants; in recent years, German investment in the United States has created 600,000 American jobs and the figure is growing, according to the German Embassy in Washington.
In this land of export-driven prosperity, many companies have long seen their markets far beyond their borders: Bertelsmann, the media giant, does 70 per cent of its business outside Germany; two thirds of Daimler-Benz's annual revenue was earned outside Germany last year, and over one-third of its stock is held by foreign investors. Volkswagen now owns auto companies from the Czech Republic to Spain, BMW owns Britain's Rover and between the two of them, the companies just carved up Rolls Royce and Bentley.
This, then, is the landscape in which Germany's politicians and business executives operate today -- a landscape in which big business is far more prepared to take the initiative, leaving politicians to play catch-up.
German companies "are responding to the exigencies of the market and they are doing it rather late in the game," said Josef Joffe, a senior commentator at the newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung in Munich. But, he said, there was an underlying pattern: "Big business is separating from the state and proceeding on its own path. What these firms are saying is, 'We are going to follow our own interests and therefore going our own way.' "
 
A European Voice
Another way to look at the change is through the lens of European unity. This goal began as a a politicians' dream, but today the vision is being realized by the money men. A vast single market is in place, and its moves towards a single currency in particular are inspiring German companies to seek economies of scale on a Europe-wide platform. This, in turn, has led them to take a sometimes vocal stake in their new hosts' business -- and politics. When the German-owned Rover car company in Britain announced plans to reduce its work force by 1,500 people this summer, a German executive bluntly told the British Government that the layoffs were a direct result of British economic policy, as if he had a rightful claim to a voice in shaping it. It was a claim no German statesman would have thought to make, at least in public.
It is no surprise, either, that, in all of Europe, Germany has most at stake in Russia's crisis. History and geography may condemn Berlin and Moscow to tug central Europe between them, but the bottom line this time really is a bottom line: German banks have some $30 billion in state-guaranteed credits threatened by Russia's tailspin. That exposure -- and Germany's reluctance to extend it -- dominates German policy.
Of course, the exposure itself is a hangover from the close relationship between politicians and big money. In the early 1990's, Chancellor Helmut Kohl encouraged banks to lend in an over-optimistic effort to cement Russia's lurch into market-driven democracy. As a result, some 90 percent of the loans are backed by state guarantees. But now, faced with the Russian meltdown, the bottom line has reasserted itself. Without reforms in Moscow, Mr. Kohl said, "It will not be possible to mobilize money either from international financial organizations or from Germany."
And within Germany the likely consequences of Germany's international corporatism have left politicians feeling queasy that, as a former auto executive remarked, "politics has lost the primacy." Since Daimler's takeover of Chrysler, for instance, Mr. Joffe said, Daimler's executives may well be in a position to tell German politicians, "We are going to take the whole company to Detroit," to press for economic policy changes. And that touches a central issue: Even as German companies respond to the pressures of globalization and European integration, Bonn's politicians have failed to reduce taxation and social spending, leading German companies to complain that the high labor costs financing Germany's welfare state have become more entrenched than before. So, as they seek profits, companies streamline their operations at home and look for profit margins abroad. The upshot has been disastrous for Mr. Kohl: record unemployment is the single biggest issue in the election.
"There is a danger that while German big business internationalizes, Germany itself remains provincial," said Hermann Grohe, a member of Chancellor Kohl's Christian Democrats. "Technological advance and economic change are so rapid that we must be careful to insure that politics isn't too slow."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Hanover, the rivals for chancellor -- Gerhard Schroeder, at left, and Helmut Kohl -- stare down at voters. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VWA (AMS) (54%); VW (SWX) (54%); VOW (FRA) (54%); VOA (PAR) (54%); VKW (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SPAIN (65%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: ROLLS-ROYCE & BENTLEY MOTOR CARS LTD (50%); ROLLS-ROYCE & BENTLEY MOTOR HOLDINGS LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SPAIN (65%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); CARTELS (69%); PUBLISHING (61%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR); SCHROEDER, GERHARD; COWELL, ALAN GERHARD SCHRODER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



354 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By BILL WELLMAN

 BODY:

STRIKES
Labor's Growing Assertiveness
The recent strikes at Northwest Airlines, General Motors, Bell Atlantic and US West represent the biggest surge in major walkouts in years and, industrial relations experts say, point to a new aggressiveness on the part of labor unions. (Late in the week, Northwest pilots reached a tentative agreement with the company.) For years, unions had shunned large-scale walkouts, remembering the results of the air traffic controllers' walkout in the early 1980's and, more recently, the strike at Caterpillar. And even though union membership rolls are slipping and the slowing economy threatens workers, unions have grown bolder, labor experts say, because of the tight labor market, more combative union leadership and the teamsters' gains in last year's U.P.S. strike. Even before the prominent strikes of this summer, the number of work stoppages was climbing, to 226 in the first six months of the year from 214 in the corresponding period of 1997, according to the Bureau of National Affairs, a private research organization. 

CITIES
Land-Use Nonplanning
Atlanta faces the worst urban sprawl problem among American cities of more than one million in population, according to a study by the Sierra Club. (Los Angeles, "the granddaddy of sprawl," was not included in the study.) The group said that about 500 acres of green space, forests and farmland disappeared each week in the Atlanta metropolitan area. In Chicago, 10th in urban sprawl, the population of the metropolitan area grew by 9 percent between 1990 and 1996, but developed land expanded by 40 percent, the study found. The Sierra Club said the trend was costing billions of dollars for expanded roads, sewer and water systems, while destroying needed wetlands, forests and open spaces for wildlife and adding to air and water pollution. The study, reported by The Associated Press, said 400,000 acres a year were being bulldozed nationwide.
 
THE UNDERCLASS
The Poverty of Nations
Even in the world's wealthiest countries, the ranks of the poor are growing and many people are being denied the basic rewards of affluence, a United Nations report said. For example, 16.5 percent of Americans live in poverty, even though the United States leads the world in per-capita consumption of goods and services. Sweden was ranked the best among developed nations in spreading the wealth, with fewer than 7 percent of its people in poverty. In the industrialized world, at least 37 million people are unemployed, 100 million are homeless and nearly 200 million have a life expectancy of less than 60 years, the report said. Many African nations were at the bottom of the list. In the Sudan, above, a malnourished boy slept at a feeding center.
 
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
A New Perspective
A major new study of the records and experiences of tens of thousands of students at some of the nation's top colleges and universities concludes that their affirmative-action policies created the backbone of the black middle class and taught white classmates the value of integration. The study was written by two former Ivy League presidents, William Bowen of Princeton, an economist, and Derek Bok of Harvard, a political scientist, and begins by documenting the situation: Blacks who enter elite institutions generally do so with lower test scores and grades than those of whites. And as they work their way through liberal arts colleges black students generally receive lower grades and graduate at a lower rate. But after graduation, the survey found, these students achieve notable successes. They earn advanced degrees at rates identical to those of their white classmates, and they are even slightly more likely than whites from the same institutions to obtain professional degrees in law, business and medicine. And they become more active than their white classmates in civic and community activities.
 
JAPAN
Why Not Just Give It Away?
The Japanese central bank lowered a key interest rate to the extraordinarily low level of one-quarter of 1 percent in an attempt, by making funds cheaper, to bring the economy out of its worst recession since World War II. But with Japanese interest rates negligible, it will be difficult for the central bank to navigate monetary policy. At the end of the week, the central bank summed up the situation: "Japan's economic conditions continue to deteriorate." The Nikkei, the benchmark Japanese stock index, responded by plummeting more than 5 percent. The response of some businesses, like the Tokyo computer store above, has been to hang out the sale signs.
 
THE ECONOMY
Sky's the (Deficit) Limit
The United States trade deficit in goods, services and investments widened to a record $56.53 billion in the second quarter. Net foreign purchases of Treasury securities increased as international investors shifted out of United States stocks. The current account balance is the broadest measure of the nation's international trade, covering goods and services, investments and financial transactions between governments. In the first quarter, the current account shortfall widened to $46.74 billion. . . . Wholesale inventories fell 0.2 percent in July, to a seasonally adjusted $276.9 billion, after a 0.1 percent drop in June. They were the first back-to-back monthly declines since August and September 1996.
 
RUSSIA
Pink and Proud of It
President Boris N. Yeltsin named Foreign Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov, architect of Russia's hard-line foreign policy, as his compromise candidate to head a new Government. The nomination of Mr. Primakov, the veteran diplomat and spymaster, a cool-headed survivor from the Soviet era who has stayed above Russia's political battles, was quickly approved and welcomed by a wide range of political leaders, including the Communists. (Referring to Mr. Primakov, one newspaper editor said: "He is not red. But he is a bit pink.") Skeptics said Mr. Primakov, who has no background in economic management, would be hard pressed to find a formula that would let him keep his job as well as steer the country out of its economic crisis. "He won't be able to manage the situation because he is not an economist," said Anna Sichova, a 20-year-old graduate student. But Nikolai Maltsev, a 70-year-old social science professor, saw him as the the best of the available compromise choices. "He is a straightforward person, and he is very realistic," Mr. Maltsev said. Many Russians were probably more concerned about empty shops than political promises.
 
BRAZIL
Asian Flu, Latin Beat
Brazil finally succumbed to the malaise afflicting world markets. The Sao Paulo exchange closed down 15.8 percent on Thursday, and trading was halted twice in one day for the first time in its history, leaving many traders holding their heads. Standard & Poor's lowered its country rating on Brazil to negative, putting it in the same category as Jordan, Lebanon, Paraguay and Bolivia, and by Thursday evening at least $1.7 billion in foreign reserves had poured out of the country. A week ago, Moody's also downgraded Brazil. With the world's ninth-largest economy and half of South America's population, Brazil is seen as a bellwether for the region, and the country most capable of ushering in a Latin version of the turbulence that has roiled Asia and Russia. The selloff on Thursday was hardly limited to Brazil. Markets fell 9.8 percent in Mexico, 13.3 percent in Argentina, and 7.4 percent in Chile.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Reuters; Associated Press)
 
Graph shows percentage of all workers in unions, from 1984 through 1997. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS INC (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); SIERRA CLUB (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); SIERRA CLUB (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%); SUDAN (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LABOR UNIONS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); STRIKES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); CITIES (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (85%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); RANKINGS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); MALNUTRITION (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (70%); CONSUMPTION (70%); WATER QUALITY (64%); WATER POLLUTION (63%); WETLANDS (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (61%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (51%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



355 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Still Doesn't Get It

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
David Maraniss, in his biography of Bill Clinton, "First in His Class," writes about an "intense relationship" that Mr. Clinton had with a young woman who had volunteered to work in his first campaign for public office. Mr. Clinton was running for Congress and the woman was a student at the University of Arkansas.
A campaign aide, quoted in the book, said, "The staff tried to ignore it as long as it didn't interfere with the campaign." But it did interfere, because Mr. Clinton was also intensely involved with Hillary Rodham. 
 Mr. Maraniss writes: "The tension at campaign headquarters increased considerably when Rodham arrived as people there tried to deal with the situation. Both women seemed on edge. The Arkansas girlfriend would ask people about Hillary: what she was like, and whether Clinton was going to marry her. When she was at headquarters, someone would sneak her out the back door if Rodham was spotted pulling into the driveway."
It was all there more than two decades ago at the very beginning of Bill Clinton's political journey: the thoughtlessness, the recklessness, the wanton use of friends and associates to cover up his ugly behavior, the willingness to jeopardize the hopes and dreams of people who were working for him and trusted him, the betrayal of those closest to him.
There is nothing new in Kenneth Starr's report, just confirmation in extreme and at times lurid detail of the type of person Mr. Clinton has always been.
In 1992, when he was running for President and people across the nation were investing their time, money and even their careers in him, he rewarded them with the Gennifer Flowers scandal. He carried his psychodrama onto national television when he went on "60 Minutes" and, with Mrs. Clinton at his side, called Ms. Flowers a liar.
He told Steve Kroft and 30 million viewers: "It was only when money came up, when the tabloid went down there offering people money to say that they had been involved with me, that she changed her story. There's a recession on, times are tough, and I think you can expect more and more of these stories as long as they're down there handing out money."
In other words, it was the economy, stupid.
But even as he was denying that he had had a sexual relationship with Gennifer Flowers, Mr. Clinton was going out of his way on "60 Minutes" to convey to the public that he had learned a lesson, that he had matured and that his irresponsible behavior would not be a problem if he were elected President.
"I have absolutely leveled with the American people," he said.
In fact, his comments were about as level as the Himalayas. We now know that he was willing to risk everything, his family, his Presidency, the welfare of the nation, on a dangerous fling with a White House intern. For him, it must have been great fun. He got to play so many people for fools. He got to chat on the phone with Congressmen while engaging in sex. He got to play hide and seek with the Secret Service.
Very mature behavior.
Now the Clinton psychodrama has much of the Government paralyzed and the Democratic Party in a state of panic. But Mr. Clinton still doesn't get it. On Thursday he met with the members of his Cabinet, who had been duped and lied to like so many others. He went into his emotional routine and said he was oh-so-sorry, etc. He begged for forgiveness.
But he got upset when the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Donna Shalala, said that she was appalled by his behavior. Ms. Shalala complained that the President seemed to believe that pursuing his policies and programs was more important than providing moral leadership.
A story in The Washington Post said Mr. Clinton responded sharply to Ms. Shalala, rebuking her. My understanding is that his response was critical but not harsh. Either way, it's clear that Mr. Clinton has not learned the requisite lessons. He lied to Ms. Shalala months ago and sent her out to lie to the public, and now he's criticizing her.
The President is not sorry. He's apologizing because there's a gun at his head. He's not changing what he now describes as his sinful ways. He's trying to manipulate public opinion so he can survive to sin again. The psychodrama remains as long as he remains.
There are no surprises here. With Bill Clinton, it was ever thus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); HIMALAYAS (50%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); HIMALAYAS (50%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); POLITICS (71%); ETHICS (71%); SCANDALS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MARANISS, DAVID; HERBERT, BOB; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



356 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Most Consuming More, and the Rich Much More

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
Before the world slipped into a global financial crisis last year, consumption of goods and services was rising phenomenally in industrial and many developing nations, according to a United Nations report published this past week. The costs of public and private consumption, still rising despite economic setbacks, will top $24 trillion this year, twice the 1975 level and six times that of 1950, the report said.
But the gaps between the world's richest and poorest people have been steadily widening for years, an indicator that even if economies right themselves, there will be a huge backlog of unmet demands and needs, the kind that fuel popular unrest in an age of mass media. 
 "Not everyone has been invited to the party," said James Gustave Speth, administrator of the United Nations Development Program, which released the Human Development Report 1998 on Wednesday. "Expectations have gone global but the affluence has not."
In Africa, the report found, the average household consumes 20 percent less than it did 25 years ago. In many poor countries, in South Asia as well as Africa, fast-growing populations -- which are also living longer -- are depleting both natural resources and household purchasing power. In poor nations, where families tend to be much larger than in industrial societies, the average life span has risen from 46 to 62 in the last 36 years.
Richer nations, on the other hand, are reducing population growth while increasing consumption. The 20 percent of people in high-income countries account for 86 percent of private consumption; the poorest 20 percent of the world's people consume only 1.3 percent of the pie, the report said.
The richest fifth buy nine times as much meat, have access to nearly 50 times as many telephones and use more than 80 times the paper products and motorized vehicles than the poorest fifth.
The report says that Americans spend more on cosmetics, $8 billion annually, and Europeans on ice cream, $11 billion, than it is estimated it would cost to provide basic education ($6 billion) or water and sanitation ($9 billion) to the more than 2 billion people worldwide who go without schools and toilets.
The report only skirts the issue of what role the poorest nations themselves play in this predicament, some independent experts say.
"The presumption there is that refraining from buying ice cream automatically finances immunizations in the third world," said Nicholas Eberstadt of the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. This is a fallacy, he said. Often, he added, there has been a "misuse of public resources in low income countries" and even if the money were available there is no guarantee that governments would spend it on the poor.
In many developing countries, the gaps between rich and poor are far greater than in industrial countries. The rich avoid paying taxes, which could pay for basic services like schools and clinics. Conspicuous consumption is often glaring.
"Even within the social sector," Mr. Eberstadt said, "the tendency is to spend disproportionately on the privileged."
Military expenditures are often also disproportionately high, experts say. India, for example, now has a nuclear weapons program but not compulsory primary education. Worldwide, countries spend $780 billion on the military and people spend $400 billion on illicit drugs, the report says.
The report recommends that to reduce inequalities within as well as among nations, consumption levels among the poor need to be raised to basic levels, while people with little experience in the international marketplace need more information and consumer protection laws and regulations.
The reports also suggests that developing countries "leapfrog" over old technologies in developing more environmentally friendly sources of energy and other services. Otherwise, poor countries may relive some of the worst aspects of the Industrial Revolution.
"Developing countries face a fundamental choice," the report says. "They can mimic the industrial countries, and go through a development phase that is dirty and wasteful and creates an enormous legacy of pollution. Or they can leapfrog over some of the steps followed by industrial countries and incorporate modern, efficient technologies."
This would not restrain consumption, as some experts in the third world who are suspicious of advanced technology in labor-intensive countries argue, but could in fact increase consumption through efficiency with far less environmental damage, the report said.
By 2050, 8 billion of the world's projected 9.5 billion people will be living in poor countries, the report said, and they will, if present trends continue, be destroying large areas of the earth.
"The need is not so much for more consumption or less, but for a different pattern of consumption," Mr. Speth told reporters. "We will pay dearly later in migration, in the environment, in other problems."
The Human Development Report 1998, like its predecessors, ranks nations according to the life they give their people rather than on the nation's traditional economic figures like per capita gross domestic product. The concept of a "human development index," which is at the heart of the report, was the idea of Mahbub ul Haq, a former finance minister of Pakistan and World Bank official who died in July.
This year Canada, France, Norway, the United States, Iceland, Finland, the Netherlands, Japan, New Zealand and Sweden rank as the top 10 of the 174 nations surveyed.
At the other end of the scale, the 10 least developed countries in human terms are, from the bottom up, Sierra Leone, Niger, Burkino Faso, Mali, Burundi, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Guinea, Mozambique and Gambia.
The report also tries to measure the relative positions of women in nations around the world. By standards of economic activity and political representation of women, some developing countries rise above industrial countries, and the United States ranks below the Nordic countries, Iceland, Austria, the Netherlands and Canada.
The idea of measuring women's roles in vastly different cultures without reference to influences such as ethnicity and religion, has been criticized. At the American Enterprise Institute, Mr. Eberstadt, a statistical expert, was dismissive.
"Think of North Korea," he said. "North Korea has long boasted that over 48 percent of its work force is female. Is that a sign of liberation? Not exactly. In North Korea's Peoples Assembly, usually a quarter of its members are women, a higher proportion of women than in the United States Congress. What inferences does one draw from that? That women have more political opportunities in North Korea than in the United States?"
The Human Development Report 1998 is published by Oxford University Press, 2001 Evans Road, Cary, NC 27513, for $19.95.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (77%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; WATER; SANITATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ICE CREAM; COSMETICS AND TOILETRIES; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES POPULATION GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FAMILY (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COSMETICS (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (71%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA NICHOLAS EBERSTADT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



357 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: In Tourism Transit Disputes, Grenada Is the Little Guy

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: ST. GEORGE'S, Grenada

 BODY:
Small and vulnerable, Grenada is a typical Caribbean ministate that depends on tourism for budget revenues and jobs. So when American Airlines decided a few months ago that it would suspend daily jet service here unless the Government agreed to pay a $1.5 million annual subsidy to the airline, it was inevitable that a ruckus would ensue.
But what began as a purely commercial dispute has now taken on political overtones, with the Government here cast as a hapless David up against a heartless Goliath. When Fidel Castro visited Grenada, Jamaica and Barbados in August, some of the loudest applause he received came in response to his calls for the region to unite and seize control of its destiny, specifically including the tourist industry. 
 Grenada and other members of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States are still recovering from another confrontation, this one with the major cruise ship lines. When the governments of the region recently sought a $1.50-per-head increase in their levy on cruise-ship passengers to help pay to clean up waste, the cruise lines threatened to take their vessels elsewhere unless the measure was rescinded.
Of the two conflicts, the American Airlines threat to suspend jet service is regarded as the most worrisome. According to the Caribbean Tourism Organization, the vacation industry generates $14 billion for the region's economy each year, with visitors arriving by plane outspending those aboard cruise vessels by a margin of about nine to one.
"We had no choice" but to accede to American's ultimatum, Prime Minister Keith Mitchell, clearly upset, said at a news conference here. "The tourism industry here was already suffering from a lack of direct transportation from North America and Europe to our country, and if we had allowed this to fall apart, it could have spelled disaster for many of the properties here, with, of course, the resulting loss of thousands of jobs."
The airline made the same demand of two other countries, Antigua and St. Lucia, as part of what company officials describe as a "restructuring" of its Caribbean routes that went into effect in April. In recent years, American has become the dominant airline in the area, gaining a market share of more than 70 percent in some destinations, in part at the expense of struggling regional carriers like Air Jamaica, British West Indies Airways and Leeward Islands Air Transport.
American is unapologetic about its action. The airline, currently enjoying near-record earnings, says that all of its routes must be profitable all of the time and rejects the idea that any civic obligation it may have here takes precedence over its responsibility to stockholders.
"We understand that air service is extremely important to all the islands, but these markets were losing well in excess of a million dollars a year each, and had been for a while," said Al Becker, a spokesman for the Dallas-based carrier. "Operating an airline is an extremely expensive proposition, and we simply felt we could not sustain service to those islands on our own and had to take some steps to correct that situation."
Robert C. Booth, director of Aviation Management Services, a Miami-based consulting firm, said those steps were unprecedented.
"I've heard of countries in the third world reducing landing fees or even waiving landing fees as a contribution to helping a carrier, but I can't ever remember a straight subsidy," he said. "While I can understand American's position, to take money from a third-world country as a subsidy, I personally think it's wrong."
People here complain that American's service has worsened since the arrangement began, or as Mr. Mitchell put it, "I don't know at this particular point what we are paying for." But they are even more resentful at having to part with money they think would be better spent on modernizing and expanding the airport and runway here, begun by Cuba and finished by the United States after its troops invaded in 1983, or even subsidizing a regional carrier. "I don't see why we should have to fix their bottom line," saidLeslie Pierre, editor of the country's leading newspaper, The Grenadian Voice. "If they are overflowing with profits, they are not going to turn to us and say, 'Here's a couple of million.' "
Grenada, whose population is about 100,000, and its neighbors seem to have fared somewhat better in their dispute with the other pillar of the regional economy, the cruise ship lines. The issue was being negotiated at the same time the countries were confronting American, and at the start they felt at a disadvantage because of their size and dependency.
"Cruise lines have the ultimate in movable assets," Jean Holder, secretary general of the Caribbean Tourism Organization, said in a telephone interview from the group's headquarters in Barbados. "They can shift their vessels from one country to another, or from the region altogether, which obviously gives them a great deal of bargaining power."
But the governments involved felt that if cruise lines, whose vessels and clients cause some of the pollution the project is intended to clean up, "come into our country and want a nice, clean, healthy environment, then they should make a contribution," said Joslyn Whiteman, Grenada's Minister of Tourism. "Even local people have to make a contribution" through a special tax on utilities, he said.
Carnival Cruise Lines, which Grenadian officials said spearheaded the effort to resist the levy, did not respond to the many phone calls to its Miami headquarters asking for comment on the dispute. But Mr. Whiteman said the cruise ship lines started from the position that "they felt they could bypass us" and "decided to use one island as an example," that island being Grenada.
What the cruise lines apparently did not expect was that the Prime Ministers from all the affected countries would call their bluff by meeting and agreeing to impose the $1.50-a-head fee simultaneously and in unison. That made it almost impossible, officials of several Caribbean Governments said, for cruise lines to play one country against another.

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of St. George's, Grenada: An airline subsidy could instead go to the airport in St. George's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GRENADA (94%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); JAMAICA (79%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BARBADOS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (85%); ORGANISATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES (56%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES (56%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GRENADA; CARIBBEAN AREA; CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GRENADA (94%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); JAMAICA (79%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BARBADOS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; WATER POLLUTION; CRUISES CRUISES (91%); AIRLINES (91%); TOURISM (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); LAYOFFS (67%); MARKET SHARE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ISLANDS & REEFS (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY FIDEL CASTRO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



358 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Today's Lesson: What's a Bagel?;
Austrians Fill a Need for Teachers and Learn the Lingo

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
Having shepherded his 33 freshmen into their first mathematics class of the school year, Richard Mesaric started his lesson, his voice loud but halting.
"There's something maybe a little special about me which I want to tell you about at the beginning," the teacher said as he looked around the third-floor classroom at Midwood High School in Brooklyn. "I am from afar, you could say, from Austria, Europe. 
 "I am new to New York just like you are new to high school," he continued, his 14- and 15-year-old students staring back silently. "I apologize if I can't right away answer all the questions special to this school. I guess we'll all have to get used to it together."
For Mr. Mesaric and 22 other Austrians brought to New York City in late August to occupy perennially hard-to-fill vacancies in mathematics and science positions -- and for the seven Spaniards who came soon after to ease a shortage of Spanish teachers -- the whirlwind of finding housing and learning the subways gave way last week to a new reality: It was time to report to class.
As Mr. Mesaric, 25, elbowed his thin frame through Midwood's bottlenecked corridors on Thursday and Friday, weaving from logic to geometry to algebra classes, it was clear that the learning process would be a two-way street.
"Sometimes my English, well, you'll see, sometimes there may be some problems with communications," he told the sophomores in his fourth-period Regents math class on Thursday, the first class he saw. "You'll help me in English. I'll help you in math."
Actually, the students and teachers who met Mr. Mesaric were struck by his fluency, considering that his native language is German and that he had not begun speaking English until he was 10 years old. Nonetheless, there are nuances that will have to be ironed out.
Running down a list of the supplies he would require for class, Mr. Mesaric told his sixth-period freshmen: "You'll probably need a rubber."
Though the directive raised no eyebrows among his students, his supervisor, Lorraine Carlozzi, blushed in the back of the room and mouthed the word "eraser," which Mr. Mesaric then repeated aloud. After class, she gingerly told him that he had stumbled upon a slang term for condom.
Mr. Mesaric was still laughing about his faux pas after school when he and another Austrian teacher visiting Midwood, Martin Huber, who had made the same mistake, descended upon a diner on Hillel Place in Flatbush for a late lunch.
"I'll have the American cheese pancake," Mr. Huber, who is 38 and has a Ph.D. in physics, informed the waitress. As she looked back at him quizzically, he rifled through the menu, finally looking up and saying, "I mean omelet."
"Pancakes are something else," she said.
For Mr. Mesaric and his compatriots, who will work here on temporary visas for at least a year but may be invited by school officials to stay as long as three, the adjustment to New York City and its school system has been daunting. With 1.1 million students, the roster of the city schools is equal to the student population of all of Austria. And with 4,300 students who come and go in three shifts, Midwood, a 57-year-old red-brick box of a building in Flatbush, has four times as many students as the biggest high school in Vienna.
"When I entered the entrance this morning, it was hard to get through," said Renate Drescher, 37, who taught science in a Viennese school of 700 last year and is one of the three Austrian teachers at Midwood.
The Austrians at Midwood -- whose colleagues were assigned to high schools throughout the five boroughs, including Adlai Stevenson in the Bronx and Franklin D. Roosevelt in Brooklyn -- have noted other differences as well.
The diversity at Midwood, whose student body is 43 percent black, 10 percent Hispanic and 18 percent Asian, is striking, Mr. Mesaric said.
"We have kids from different ethnicities in Vienna," Mr. Mesaric said, noting that war in the Balkans has sent a stream of refugees into the country. "Still, they are all white."
As for the curriculum, Mr. Mesaric has been poring over the state guidelines for the college-preparatory courses that he will be teaching, and he says he recognizes virtually all of the concepts.
City education officials say that they have been initially impressed with the credentials and training of the Austrians, all of whom have degrees in either math or science education and have had at least a year of student teaching. That is more experience than that of many Americans hired over the summer to fill hundreds of vacant jobs in city schools, especially in math and science, which are experiencing shortages nationally.
Still, the Austrians will have to make academic adjustments, too. In Austria, there are usually no final exams before the last year of high school, and teachers have great latitude in structuring their lesson plans.
Mr. Mesaric will have to follow a tight curriculum developed by the State Board of Regents, knowing that his students must take an exam at the end of the year.
And in contrast to Austria, where teachers talk and students listen, Mr. Mesaric will be pressed to open up his classroom to permit give-and-take.
Some things, though, are universal.
"The kids here chew gum like they do in Austria," Mr. Mesaric says.
Though he says he's willing to permit his new students their gum, "unless I don't understand what they're saying," he showed flashes of strictness in other areas early on.
"Can I go to the bathroom?" one sophomore asked, not five minutes into the first period of the year.
"Now?" Mr. Mesaric asked, visibly startled. "No!"
Later, he told his students, "If any of you comes in late too often, we'll probably have to talk, I don't know, about a lower grade on the test."
Pascal Leveille, 17, predicted that his new teacher would be a tough grader. "He doesn't know the system yet," he said.
Though some of the Austrians came to New York to escape unemployment amid a glut of math and science teachers, Mr. Mesaric already had a teaching job, but said he was eager to educate those in his country about life in a school a world away.
"People in Austria talk a lot about the education systems in other countries," he said. "They say a lot is good, and a lot is bad. I want to see for myself."
His own firsthand experiences will be supplemented by weekly classes at City College that will cover methods of teaching, as well as the peculiarities of life and language in New York.
Among the entries on the "New York-ese" vocabulary list that he was handed at last Tuesday's class, he said, were answers to such questions as, "What's a slice? What's a bagel? What's a nerd?"
"The important stuff," he said.
Asked, in a spot quiz in the math office, for the answers, Mr. Mesaric did not hesitate.
"A nerd, would you say it is an intellectual?" he asked. "A slice, that was no problem at all, you see it on every corner. It's the same as in Austria, tasty and big."
Did he enjoy the one bagel he had eaten so far?
"No comment," he said. "The usual American-type bread is not what we really like. I guess we'll have to get accustomed. Or maybe find a European bakery."
Mr. Mesaric, who is single and wondering openly what it would be like "to go on an American date," will not, it seems, suffer for Austrian camaraderie. He, Mr. Huber and Ms. Drescher are among seven Austrians sharing two four-bedroom apartments in Borough Park. The total divided among the seven: a relatively modest $2,800 a month, or about $400 each, easily affordable on salaries that begin at $29,000 and rise by a few thousand dollars, depending on each teacher's experience. (There are no travel and housing stipends.)
If taking the B11 bus to school each day doesn't seem routine yet, riding the subway in his free time has made Mr. Mesaric feel as if he has been here far longer than he has.
"There's so many people from so many cultures, you can just be who you are and still you're integrated," he said. "Chinese are speaking Chinese. Russians are speaking Russian. So now we have Austrians speaking German."
"That," he said, "is when you feel like a New Yorker."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Mesaric, one of 23 Austrian teachers, on the first day of classes Thursday at Midwood High School in Brooklyn. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. 49); Richard Mesaric, right, was among a group of teachers who arrived at Kennedy International Airport on Aug. 22. The teachers, from Austria, were recruited for vacancies in mathematics and science teaching positions. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. 61)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (72%); GERMANY (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MIDWOOD HIGH SCHOOL (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIDWOOD HIGH SCHOOL (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRIA; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (72%); GERMANY (57%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); GEOMETRY (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); 

PERSON: MESARIC, RICHARD; STEINBERG, JACQUES RICHARD MESARIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



359 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Fires Posing Greater Risk As Amazon Grows Drier

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Sept. 12

 BODY:
A year after the Brazilian Government dismissed studies warning that parts of the Amazon rain forest were becoming so dry they could burn uncontrollably, fires have become a greater threat than ever to intact rain forest and to indigenous peoples, according to environmental groups that monitor the Amazon.
The fires are set by ranchers and farmers to clear land for grazing and planting, but are burning out of control at an alarming rate, environmental groups say, due in large part to the drying effect of El Nino. 
 The number of fires have more than doubled this year over last, according to the Government's own figures. Last year, 7,800 square miles of rain forest caught fire, the Woods Hole Institute in Massachusetts says.
Until rains doused flames in Mato Grosso this month, they appeared set to ignite the Xingu National Park, which houses 5,000 indigenous people belonging to 17 tribes. In March, fires burned 2,379 square miles of rain forest in Roraima, including parts of the Yanomami Indian reserve, near the border with Venezuela.
In addition, 10 percent of virgin rain forest, covering an area the size of California, is at risk of catching fire this year, according to the Environmental Research Institute on the Amazon, an independent group.
Following the fires in Roraima, Government officials reversed their position, acknowledging that fires had indeed become a real threat. They created special teams to monitor burnings and fight fires, but environmental groups contend that the effort was too little too late. On Thursday, the World Bank announced a $15 million emergency project to fight the fires.
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso has come under blistering criticism from environmentalists for putting off enforcement of Brazil's first Environmental Crimes Law, which was seven years in the making. Steve Schwartzman, a senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund, called the order delaying enforcement "a betrayal of everything the government negotiated for."
In July, the Government announced a $30 million plan to monitor burnings and create fire-fighting teams to control the fires during the burning season. But it has freed up only a small share of the money, said Joao Paulo Capobianco, executive secretary of the Socio-Environmental Institute. "In reality, these projects had a lot of impact in the media, but very little impact on the ground," he said.
Eduardo Martins, the head of the Government's environmental protection agency, rejected the criticism, accusing the environmentalists of "climatic opportunism." He added, "More than 1,000 people working on the problem doesn't signify doing nothing."
But, he said in a telephone interview, "If you ask me if the prevention for this burning season was adequate, I'd say no," and he acknowledged that "with the time that we had after the fires in Roraima, the preparation was not ideal."
The Amazon rain forest is home to the world's largest collection of animal and plant species, as well as troves of bacteria and fungi whose medicinal and nutritional value have yet to be studied.
Naturalists had counted the new environmental law, which went into effect April 1, to be Brazil's most significant tool for protecting the environment. For the first time, it gave a Federal agency the authority to enforce environmental protection statutes, and forced companies to clean up pollution they had caused. Previously, some 94 percent of government fines were routinely thrown out by the courts.
But last month, President Cardoso signed an executive order granting industry a 10-year protection from fines and criminal sentences for polluting if they pledge to remedy the problem. On Wednesday, President Cardoso modified the law once again, reducing the moratorium to a maximum of six years.
Mr. Martins, the environmental protection chief, said he did not see the moratorium as a step backward. "It's more a signal of maturity than anything else," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of Roraima, Brazil: Fires burned 2,379 square miles of rain forest in Roraima in March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (57%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMAZON RIVER BASIN; BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (57%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES; WEATHER; EL NINO (PACIFIC OCEAN PHENOMENON); AGRICULTURE; LIVESTOCK RAIN FORESTS (93%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EL NINO & LA NINA (90%); WEATHER (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FIRES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); FOREST FIRES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); RIVERS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES) FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (70%); EDUARDO MARTINS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



360 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: Mozambique's Austerity Puts It on Brink of a Boom

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

DATELINE: MAPUTO, Mozambique

 BODY:
Mozambique's monuments to faded eras are still pretty shabby. The bullring left from the days of Portuguese colonialism is a wreck. The grass around the memorials on the Avenue of Popular War goes untrimmed, and corn planted by starving urbanites still sprouts in parks.
The children sitting in classrooms on the concrete floors scuffed smooth by their bare, sandy feet could as easily be in Cuba or anywhere else where tropical breezes let socialist decay creep through less harshly than it did in Eastern Europe. 
 But to anyone who has been here awhile, this is a boom town where investors are filing plans for hydroelectric plants, offshore gas fields, aluminum, titanium and steel smelters and highways. A South African supermarket chain has built a mall near the bullring. An old colonial manse is now the office of an international bank -- and the Soviet-bloc-style apartment tower overlooking its backyard pool has satellite dishes in windows where once only laundry hung.
"When I came here nine years ago there were no traffic jams," said Juliet Born, a program adviser for the United States Agency for International Development, "because there wasn't a car or bus on the streets. The shops were empty. There were sidewalk cafes with waiters in them, but nothing to serve. They had no coffee, no tea, no milk, no sugar."
Now Maputo, the capital, has three luxury hotels and several restaurants overcharging for Mozambique's famously huge prawns.
The boom, thus far, is just a tiny beginning in a country that still vies for the title of world's poorest. The gross domestic product per person is $152 per year. (In next-door South Africa it is about $3,000; in the United States it is about $28,000.)
Still, the economy grew 14 percent last year, while South Africa's grew less than 2 percent. Inflation has dropped to 6 percent, from 70 percent in 1994.
"The I.M.F. and World Bank are very happy with Mozambique," said Marco Pinon Farah, the resident representative of the International Monetary Fund, one of the country's chief creditors. "But of course, 14 percent of nothing is still nothing."
Mozambique is considered a torchbearer of the African renaissance, a favorite of Western bankers who like strict economic management imposed on poor debtor nations.
In the first Africa Competitiveness Report, released at a World Economic Forum summit meeting in May, it topped the optimism index and was fourth in overall improvement between 1992 and 1997.
But the new Mozambique's role in the world economy is still much like its colonial one: being exploited by foreign buyers for raw materials. In his speech at the May summit meeting, President Joaquim Chissano was acutely aware of that but nonetheless an optimist.
"We have titanium," he said, "but of course we don't make airplanes. The day may come when we make screws. We have forests, and we would rather export timber than logs. We see a day when we will export furniture."
Mozambique's nascent success is in stark contrast to the never-ending wailing in its colonial doppelganger on the Atlantic coast, Angola. Both were Portuguese colonies freed when Lisbon abandoned its wealth-draining empire in 1975. Both quickly shattered into civil wars, with one side in each getting its guns from the Soviet bloc and the other from white South Africa and the Reagan Administration.
But Mozambique's ruling party, Frelimo, began shelving Marxism in 1983, made peace with its enemy, Renamo, held elections in 1994 and now warily shares power in Parliament. In Angola the civil war goes on and on.
With diamonds and oil, Angola ought to be rich, but it is sapped by war. Mozambique has little more than prawns and cashew nuts to export and inexpensive electricity and labor to offer. But it is attracting investment and tourists from South Africa, which recently surpassed Portugal as its biggest trading partner.
On June 6, President Nelson Mandela of South Africa and Mr. Chissano opened the Maputo Development Corridor, a toll road joining Johannesburg's industry and mines to Maputo's deep-water port. Low-tax zones were created in the corridor to attract businesses.
On July 15, the cornerstone was laid for a $1.3 billion aluminum smelter that will eventually employ 900 people. Mozal, the British-South African company that is building it, got a big tax break: it will never pay more than 1 percent of sales. That will keep smelting costs down to $800 a ton, said Roger Barbour, the chairman -- well below the $1,300 a ton that aluminum sells for in today's depressed market.
The Enron Corporation, based in Houston, is planning to spend $2 billion on a steel smelter using inexpensive Mozambican electricity and South African ore.
The Arco Corporation is spending $90 million to explore gas fields and may invest $1.5 billion to pipe the gas to South Africa, where it will be turned into synthetic diesel fuel.
Deals to smelt titanium sands, dig coal, rebuild sugar refineries, expand breweries and build game reserves and beach resorts along the 1,300 miles of pristine Indian Ocean coast are in the works.
Now the Government has to fret about how the economy will absorb a quick $5 billion without rekindling inflation. "I'd rather take that risk than have what we had before," said Mahomed Rafique, Vice Minister of Tourism, Commerce and Industry. "That worry is for those guys on Wall Street doing exercises."
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin visited Mozambique on July 16 during a swing through Africa and met with top Government officials, essentially to give official American encouragement to the retooling of the economy from socialism to free enterprise.
"I was very impressed with the program they described," he told reporters, "especially with the focus on things like eliminating red tape, improving the judicial system, creating initiatives to attract business and maintaining macroeconomic stability."
About 850 state-owned businesses have been sold. "Now we're slowing down because we haven't got many companies left," said Fernando Sumbana, director of the Government's Investment Promotion Center.
Probably more important, the rural economy has been freed. Farmers even in the remotest villages once had to sell to Government buyers at Government prices, and starvation threatened, especially in drought years. Now, even with the return of nearly two million war refugees, the country is self-sufficient in food.
Because it is doing so well, Western lenders and the former Soviet bloc, to which it owes billions, plan to cancel about 80 percent of its debt.
The unions so far have been fairly docile about privatization, objecting only when some buyers of state-owned companies tried to milk the last income out of them and declare bankruptcy.
The real test, though, will be the privatization of the state's biggest company, the war-battered port and railroad network. The ports of Maputo, Beira and Nacala are the quickest outlets to the sea for Zimbabwe, Zambia, Malawi and South Africa's industrial north. The network once had 35,000 employees but needs to come down to about 13,000, said its chairman, Rui Fonseca.
"We have to engage in retrenchment," he said, "but we don't want to create social unrest." The World Bank has said it will help underwrite severance packages for them.
Four of 12 docks in Maputo harbor -- those handling sugar, citrus, coal and containers -- have been privatized, as has the notoriously corrupt customs service, which is now run by a British company, Crown Agents. Smuggling is down, and revenues are up 25 percent.
But severe constraints on the economy remain. While education was the secret of Asia's economic tigers, about 60 percent of Mozambique's adults are illiterate, and 80 percent of children do not reach high school. The justice system is painfully slow, and red tape is cumbersome. It can take more than 100 legal steps to open a business.
And "the progressive elite is real thin, while Parliament still has a lot of old-fashioned socialists," said Tim Born, head of an "enabling environment team" for the Agency for International Development. Parliament just passed a law limiting overtime for workers to 100 hours a year.
"If your main advantage is low-cost labor, that's a stupid idea," Mr. Born said, adding that he hoped the law would simply be ignored, as another requiring universal military service was.
President Chissano, a modest and cheerful leader with a deep interest in transcendental meditation, seems most aware of how much more his country needs. Although he was the co-chairman of the World Economic Forum meeting in May, his tone with the hundreds of business people before him was almost supplicatory.
"I say this knowing you want to help us," he said. "Please help make our people a bit happier. We still have a big amount of poverty in Mozambique despite what you call our successes."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Mozambique"
Mozambique, one of the world's poorest countries, has an economy that has grown 14 percent in the last year. South Africa, Mozambique's neighbor, leads the way in foreign investment.
 
FOREIGN INVESTMENT (1997, in millions)
South Africa -- $669.0
Portugal -- $14.6
Britain -- $1.9
United States -- $1.0
 
G.D.P. in 1996
Agriculture -- 37%
Services -- 39%
Industry -- 24%
 
G.D.P. PER CAPITA
'92 -- $90
'93 -- $94
'94 -- $88
'95 -- $103
'96 -- $122
'97 -- $152
 
(Source: World Bank; World Economic Forum)
 
Map of Mozambique

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MOZAMBIQUE (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (90%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); CUBA (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: MAPUTO, MOZAMBIQUE (58%); 

COMPANY: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOZAMBIQUE (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (90%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); CUBA (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); MAPUTO, MOZAMBIQUE (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESTAURANTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); DEBTOR NATIONS (71%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (69%); POWER PLANTS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



361 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Primary Race Leads G.O.P. to a Fork in the Road

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 12

 BODY:
On at least one big thing, Representative Linda Smith and Chris Bayley heartily agree. The time is ripe for a Republican challenge to Washington State's Democratic Senator, Patty Murray.
One of the two will get the chance to take on Ms. Murray but must first win Tuesday's Republican primary. And after a caustic and expensive battle, waged in sporadic debates and a heavy flow of television advertising, a central question remains. It is one that has also echoed in other notable Republican primaries around the country this year. 
 Would the Republicans have a better chance of victory in November with Ms. Smith, an unabashed Christian conservative with a bedrock following of abortion opponents and others whom she calls "Linda's Army," or with Mr. Bayley, who emphasizes his potential appeal in a general election to moderate and independent voters?
"We've tried mediocre moderates against her before, and it hasn't worked," Ms. Smith, 48, said in a radio debate late last week, dismissing Mr. Bayley's chances of unseating Ms. Murray, who was elected to the Senate in 1992 after running a much-heralded "Mom in tennis shoes" campaign. In the debate, Ms. Smith emphasized her opposition to abortion and to financial support for the National Endowment for the Arts.
Mr. Bayley, 60, a former prosecutor who is now a businessman and investor in Seattle, shot back: "We learned our lesson in the governor's race in 1996." He referred to the Republican nominee in that election, Ellen Craswell, a conservative Christian who was soundly defeated in the general election by a moderate Democrat, Gary Locke.
While the turnout and, consequently, the results of primary elections can be notoriously difficult to predict, there are indications that the Senate primary race, which the better-known Congresswoman once seemed to lead comfortably, has become close. A statewide poll released on Friday of 503 likely voters in Tuesday's primary found Ms. Smith ahead of Mr. Bayley, 23 percent to 17 percent, with 13 percent undecided and 47 percent supporting Senator Murray. (Under Washington's "blanket primary," voters may select any declared candidate; the top Democratic vote getter faces the top Republican in November, and any third-party candidate who receives more than 1 percent of the vote.)
The poll, conducted by Mason-Dixon Political/Media Research Inc. for The Seattle Post-Intelligencer and KOMO-TV here, was said to have a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points. With the large number of undecided voters and with Ms. Smith failing to hold a commanding lead, the poll indicated Mr. Bayley was well within striking distance.
David Olson, a political science professor at the University of Washington and an expert on the state's politics, said a low turnout in the primary was likely to benefit Ms. Smith.
"She is correct to say that she has an army," Professor Olson said. "And she can mobilize those troops."
On the other hand, Professor Olson said, "when you get out of a primary and move to a general election in this state, you've got to target the median voter, and Bayley's probably right in arguing that he would be more effective in that enterprise than Linda Smith."
Trade has emerged as one of the biggest issues between Ms. Smith and Mr. Bayley, in part because the Pacific Northwest is one of the most trade-dependent regions in the nation and has been hammered in recent months by economic problems in Asia, and in part because the two opponents have clear differences on that issue.
Mr. Bayley, supported by many business leaders in the region, is a strong supporter of free-trade pacts like Nafta. He describes increasing trade with China as a major step in helping this region's economy and in prodding China to improve its human rights record. In an interview on Friday he also suggested that Congress should explore lifting trade embargoes like the one imposed on Iran. With huge amounts of grain stockpiled in farming areas across eastern Washington, his position may well strike a chord with voters there.
But Ms. Smith, a self-described maverick who was a major ally of Ross Perot's in his fight against several international trade agreements and who was the only Washington State member of Congress to vote against renewing normal trade relations with China, has attacked Mr. Bayley on trade issues. In her depiction, he is favoring free trade over human rights.
"Human rights are worse -- they're bad," she said, speaking of China in the recent radio debate. "They are harvesting organs. They're increasing their gulags, their slave labor camps."
Trade policy, she added, "should have a heart, a soul and a conscience."
She has also framed her opposition to normalized trade with China as an appeal to abortion opponents. She voted to repeal the current trade relationship, she wrote in a recent issue of Human Life News, "because to keep it is a tacit endorsement of that country's abhorrent family-planning policies."
While the scandal involving President Clinton and a White House intern has not been a major focus of the primary campaign, it is another area in which the two candidates differ. It is also an issue that could prompt hard-core Republicans to come out for Ms. Smith on Tuesday.
The Congresswoman has been a blistering critic of the President, calling on him to "resign and get out of the way" and adding, "We've got a President with a character of someone we wouldn't let your teen-age daughter alone with."
In a telephone interview on Friday from her Capitol Hill office, Ms. Smith said she believed that "the issues of integrity and honesty and being aboveboard are resonating in the final days of this campaign. The most common comment I hear from people is, 'We know you, we can trust you. You don't take special-interest money. You didn't come back here and change.' "
Compared with Ms. Smith, Mr. Bayley has been more measured in his assessment of what should happen to the President, and he calls impeachment an extremely serious proceeding that should be entered into only after a much more thorough analysis of all the facts.
Mr. Bayley, a multimillionaire who seems to be spending heavily in the final days, including his personal money, aired television advertisements this week mocking Ms. Smith's maverick label, ending with the tag line, "Linda Smith -- not what she seems to be." He has also sought to make a scandal out of what he calls her abuse of Congressional cell-phone privileges -- he says her bills are four times higher than the average for all other Congressional members from the state.
But the feisty, two-term Congresswoman from the southwest part of the state has fired right back, calling Mr. Bayley a tool of the wealthy and special interests who is trying to buy his way into the Senate. Or, as she put it in sarcastic tones at a rally recently: "Chris Bayley says I'm not a very good good-old-boy. Well, he's right. And he says he'd fit in back in Washington, D.C. Now, gosh -- isn't that reassuring?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Would the Republicans be better off with Linda Smith, left, a conservative Christian, or Chris Bayley, a moderate? (Photographs by The Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) INC RESEARCH INC (62%); SEATTLE POST-INTELLIGENCER (54%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); ENDOWMENTS (70%); ABORTION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, LINDA (REPR); BAYLEY, CHRIS; VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; MURRAY, PATTY (SEN) PATTY MURRAY (90%); GARY LOCKE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



362 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Duke Hopes Gateses' Gift Will Inspire New Genius

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
For nearly two decades, the MacArthur Foundation has rewarded genius by giving grants to creative individuals.
Now, Duke University, with the help of a $20 million grant from Melinda French Gates, a Duke alumna and trustee, and her husband, William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, hopes to seek out similar creative genius among students and give them free rein within the university. 
 The program is one more step in Duke's efforts to raise its academic focus and intellectual image. The school, in Durham, N.C., is one of the most selective private research universities in the United States, one that competes with the Ivy League and Stanford for students while also being known as a party school.
Duke officials say they are looking for the rare students who show intellectual brilliance and fearlessness at an early age, students whose interests range across many fields. A young Leonardo da Vinci would do fine, for example, or Virginia Woolf or Thomas Jefferson.
Rather than boxing these budding geniuses into the traditional confines of academic disciplines, the university wants to encourage them to pursue their intellectual curiosity across disciplinary boundaries.
"A lot of universities function like silos, each silo with its separate disciplines," said William H. Chafe, the dean of Trinity College at Duke who first started thinking about this program. "We want to build bridges between those silos."
The program drew praise from Catharine R. Stimpson, dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Science at New York University and a former director of MacArthur's "genius" grants.
"It's a wonderful dream," she said when the Duke program was described to her, "that if you take the best and the brightest and put them together they will inspire each other to think in new and different ways."
She offered a caution, however: "To do interdisciplinarity properly, you have to know something, or you risk superficiality. I hope they find a way for the students to be deep as well as broad."
Duke officials say they expect that the students will be well grounded in traditional disciplines at the same time that they reach across them, although the officials say they have not worked out details like graduation requirements.
But Cathy N. Davidson, vice provost for interdisciplinary studies at Duke, said she thought the risk would be that students would want to take too much, not too little. "This is the kind of student where you have to say, 'Slow down. Yes, it would be fascinating to learn Ukrainian, but 10 courses a semester is not a great idea.' "
Duke is one of many universities that are trying to encourage more interdisciplinary work by both faculty members and students. At Duke, for example, freshmen are encouraged to join the school's "Focus" program, in which they take multiple courses related to a common theme. Like many other universities, Duke also allows undergraduates to pursue interdisciplinary majors.
But Nannerl O. Keohane, Duke's president, said she hoped the new program would go beyond the others by adding an "intergenerational" dimension, grouping undergraduate, graduate and professional students together with each other and with faculty members, and by offering them special seminars and speakers.
The university is inviting applications for the grant next fall, and intends to begin the program with 8 to 10 incoming undergraduates, as well as 8 to 10 new graduate students and students in professional programs like law and medicine. Eventually, it expects to have about 80 students involved at a time.
College officials had begun discussing the possibility of a genius program when the Gateses invited Dr. Keohane to visit and discuss possible gift ideas. The program was one of several she described to them.
A Duke alumna who joined the university's board in 1996, Melinda French Gates had a multi dimensional academic career herself, one that included undergraduate majors in both computer science and economics, a heavy smattering of art and literature courses and an M.B.A., all earned in five years at Duke. But she said a critical difference between her experience and what she hopes will take place in the new program was that she had little opportunity to meld her interests.
Asked whether she thought there would be enough intellectually sophisticated high school students to fill out such a program, Ms. Gates said yes.
"The majority of high school students don't really know what they are going to study," she said. "But there is a small, select group who know where they want to go and what they want to be. There are always those few who stun you. Those will be the students who get attracted to this."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY MICROSOFT CORP (58%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; PHILANTHROPY COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); 

PERSON: GATES, WILLIAM H; GATES, MELINDA FRENCH; ARENSON, KAREN W BILL GATES (91%); MELINDA GATES (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



363 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Minorities, Once Invisible in Environmental Struggles, Speak Up

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: DENVER, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Dorceta Taylor, who is the only black woman to obtain a doctorate in forestry from Yale University, remembers when a professor told her that "blacks don't care about the environment."
When Ms. Taylor, now a professor of environmental sociology at the University of Michigan, recounted that story at an environmental conference here on Friday, her comments drew nods from many in attendance. Most of the 200 who attended Justice for All: Racial Equity and Environmental Well-Being were members of minorities, a rarity at an environmental conference. 
 "Environmentalism has clearly been a white middle- and upper-class movement," said Patricia Nelson Limerick, a history professor at the University of Colorado and a founder of the Center for the American West, which sponsored the conference. Ms. Limerick, who is white, said she organized the conference after she got tired of attending meetings on environmental issues and seeing few, if any, minorities represented.
"If you save the planet and have a society of inequality, you wouldn't have saved much," Ms. Limerick said.
Participants at various seminars pointed out that minorities shared many concerns of mainstream environmental groups, but were also concerned about social and economic aspects -- "environmental justice" -- that were often overlooked.
Audrey Peterman, who heads Earthwise, an environmental consulting firm in Miami, said the Everglades provided an example. The campaign to protect the Everglades from commercial development has shifted developers' eyes to surrounding poor minority communities, threatening the inhabitants.
Ms. Peterman says that it took her group years to convince the state and environmental groups that addressing the concerns of urban residents should go hand in hand with protecting the Everglades.
William Yellowtail, the first American Indian to hold the post of regional administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency, said the agency was addressing minority concerns . If a minority community is disproportionately affected by a toxic-waste site, for example, the E.P.A. will make cleanup there a priority. But he said the agency could do more.
"We should make room for people of color in decisions about environmental and lands management," said Mr. Yellowtail, who is in charge of the E.P.A. region that covers Colorado and surrounding states.
The conference was jointly sponsored by such mainstream environmental organizations as the Environmental Defense Fund, the Nature Conservancy and the Environmental Protection Agency, but representatives of those groups conceded they fall short in addressing concerns of minority environmentalists.
"We in the environmental community are famous for saying things are connected, things are interrelated," said Dan Luecke, director of the Rocky Mountain chapter of the Environmental Defense Fund. "I think we have to integrate the interests of minority communities."
Robert Stanton, who became the first black director of the National Park Service a year ago, said the public needed to see more minority park rangers. He said he had made minority recruitment a priority, but conceded that most gains had been in maintenance departments.
"There has to be improvement in terms of making every member of our society feel the resources entrusted to the Federal, state and local government are accessible to them," Mr. Stanton said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (62%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (77%); HISTORY (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: PATRICIA NELSON LIMERICK (77%); WILLIAM YELLOWTAIL (62%); AUDREY PETERMAN (62%); ROBERT STANTON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



364 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE DEMOCRAT;
A Veteran of Nixon's Fall Now Defends a President

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Representative John Conyers Jr., the Michigan Democrat who is the ranking minority member on the House Judiciary Committee, probably knows more about impeachment procedures than most other members of Congress. He was on the committee in 1974, the year the committee -- with his strong approval -- voted to impeach Richard M. Nixon.
Now, almost a quarter of a century later, Mr. Conyers finds himself once again pondering a President's fate. But this time the President is a fellow Democrat and Mr. Conyers is no mere member of the committee. 
 As the titular leader of the 15 minority members of a committee that is one of the most politically polarized on Capitol Hill, he will be at the forefront of the Democratic effort to see that the 21-member Republican majority does not run roughshod over President Clinton. At the same time, he will face the touchy challenge of seeing that the Democrats give balanced consideration to the potentially devastating evidence presented by the report by Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel.
How aggressive Mr. Conyers will be is but a guess at this point, though surely the moment has the potential to be the most high-profile of his long Congressional career.
In 34 years on Capitol Hill, he has built a reputation as a dependable, collegial Democrat who will fight harder than most for liberal causes, particularly those that directly affect the poor and downtrodden of the economically hard-pressed Detroit district he represents. But he has never shown much ambition to be a top leader in the House and has never been ranked among its grand legislative formulators or schemers.
It would not be in Mr. Conyers's nature simply to retreat from the coming fury. But he very well might share the leadership of the Democratic effort, especially since the second-ranking Democrat on the committee, Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, is one of the party's more outspoken, witty and active legislators and would surely be an asset in taking on the committee's highly regarded Republican chairman, Representative Henry J. Hyde of Illinois.
Mr. Conyers, the only holdover on the committee from the Nixon impeachment days, gave some indication earlier on about what he thought of the Starr investigation. But with the report now out, his opinion easily could have changed a bit.
About six months ago, Mr. Conyers questioned whether the investigation was being carried out in a fair, nonpartisan manner, once going so far as to label Mr. Starr as one of the "enemies of the nation" and later saying that Mr. Starr was "his own worst enemy -- well, outside of me, maybe." But almost in the next breath, he declared that Mr. Clinton's conduct had been "very hurtful and painful to the nation."
Then, after the President's mid-August speech, in which he admitted having "inappropriate intimate" relations with Monica S. Lewinsky, Mr. Conyers said he believed that the President had "turned the corner."
Most recently, after the Starr report was sent to Capitol Hill this week, Mr. Conyers was one of the 63 House members, all Democrats, who voted on Friday against making it public before either the White House or Congress could read it.
Mr. Conyers, who is 69, has built a reputation as a liberal with an abiding concern for his constituents in the heavily black 14th Congressional District in Detroit. They have rewarded him with 17 easy re-election victories, choosing to remember mostly his floor votes on their behalf and mainly ignore the one serious blemish on his record in recent years: a series of cost overruns and other book-keeping problems with his Congressional office budget.
In those floor votes, he opposed United States involvement in the Vietnam War, championed tougher civil rights laws and, as an early member of the Congressional Black Caucus, spearheaded the effort to commemorate the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. with a Federal holiday. He has also been a strong advocate of health care reform and has been an unrelenting pleader for public works programs in urban areas.
But he is not always predictable and will not blindly cleave to the party line or support an old ally if he concludes that the support is no longer merited.
Thus, he abandoned one Democrat, President Lyndon B. Johnson, on Vietnam and called another, President Jimmy Carter, a "hopeless, demented, honest, well-intentioned nerd."
He voted to censure a fellow black Democrat, Representative Adam Clayton Powell of New York, for misuse of Government funds and also helped lead the fight that resulted in the impeachment of one of the country's few black Federal judges, Alcee Hastings of Florida. Though once driven from the bench, Mr. Hastings, a Democrat, managed to win a seat in Congress and now sits in the House with Mr. Conyers.
Finally, after the Federal raid on the Branch Davidians near Waco, Tex., left dozens of people dead, he sided with critics of Attorney General Janet Reno, especially Republicans, saying she had done the "right thing" when she offered to resign.
As a fellow member of the Judiciary Committee, Representative George W. Gekas, Republican of Pennsylvania, once put it, Mr. Conyers can be "predictably unpredictable" at times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Conyers Jr., the ranking Democrat on the judiciary panel. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; SEX; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EVIDENCE (67%); ETHICS (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CONYERS, JOHN JR (REPR); NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR JOHN CONYERS (92%); RICHARD NIXON (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARNEY FRANK (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



365 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE PUBLIC;
In Florida, Varied Emotions And Sense of Bewilderment

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Some made an effort to ignore it, insisting it was none of their business. Others found themselves drawn to every word, unable to put down the newspaper or turn off the computer.
The report by the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr on the Monica Lewinsky affair did not seem to change many minds in Florida, but its lurid details and its case for the impeachment of President Clinton have raised partisan passions here. 
 In a state that the President lost in 1992 but won in 1996, where registered voters are nearly equally divided between Democrats and Republicans, many are shocked, angered and ashamed. They are wondering what is next for a country mired in the tawdry goings-on between a married President and a woman not his wife.
"I'm angry," said Roseanne Scheck, 37, a Democrat and a social worker in Tallahassee who said that she considered Mr. Clinton's sexual relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky to be his family's business. "It's not anything we need to know about. It doesn't have to do anything with this country's politics, educational system, social service system. That report, it just might as well be in The National Enquirer."
In the Orlando area, Julie McLachlan, 29, a Republican with two children who works as a court stenographer, directed her outrage at Mr. Clinton, who she said could have saved the country expense and embarrassment by owning up to his actions at the first opportunity.
"As far as I am concerned, this is the beginning of a global and moral collapse of our young people because of the example he has set," Ms. McLachlan said.
Released on Friday, the report and its salacious details spread quickly among the public through the Internet, television reports, radio chatter and parties. This morning, newspapers like The Gainesville Sun published the complete report in special sections, while others like The Miami Herald, The Tallahassee Democrat and The St. Petersburg Times ran several pages of excerpts.
Floridians interviewed today around the state applied words like "silly," "titillating" and "gross" to the report's graphic descriptions of sexual encounters but said they were more concerned about the big picture -- whether Americans had become the world's laughing stock, whether the nation would be scarred forever, whether anybody would ever again want to run for President.
"Now I'm afraid public figures are going to have even less of a private life," said Connie Tessmer, 31, a computer programmer and a Democrat. "Now people are going to be more apt and dig up dirt. But, you know, maybe that will make government officials think twice. Maybe it will work out good in the long run."
Mr. Starr cited 11 possible counts for impeachment on grounds of perjury, obstruction of justice, witness tampering and abuse of authority, all revolving around Mr. Clinton's liaison with Ms. Lewinsky. Among Floridians interviewed today who said the President should resign or face impeachment, many said they were most offended by the apparent with which Mr. Clinton lied -- to his wife, to the country and even, some believe, under oath.
"It would have been private business if he had admitted right away that, yes, I had an affair," said Carl Bennett, 38, a Tallahassee plumber and a Republican. "Then you could have moved on. But whenever you start the lying, the trying to cover it up, that's when it became a public problem."
Sue Powell, 51, a Web site designer for a Christian Internet service in Fort Lauderdale, said she had read about 40 pages of the report to weigh the facts for herself and concluded Mr. Clinton should resign because, "it's not just he-said, she-said."
"It's she-said and here's the evidence that backs up what she said," said Ms. Powell, who is registered as an independent voter.
"I think he has the morals of an alley cat," she said. "He really has lost credibility among the people. We can't believe a word he says. And even the things he's saying now -- I had an improper relationship but it really wasn't sex. Come on, get real."
In Miami, Roberto Montes de Oca, 49, a social worker and a Democrat, said it troubled him that Mr. Clinton did not seem to stop to think of the consequences of lying about the affair to the American people. But he and others interviewed who opposed impeachment said it troubled them more that the country would forget the good Mr. Clinton has done during his Presidency and that "a great President" could face removal from office for what amounts to adultery.
"He's not a sex offender," Mr. Montes de Oca said. "It has no repercussions for the nation. It's a problem for him and his wife, not me. Nobody would lose a job over something like that."
"I was shocked someone dared to investigate this stuff and then report about it," Mr. Montes de Oca said, adding that he worried about the extent to which the President might have lost the respect of Congress, Cabinet members and others.
"It's morbid," he said. "The investigators give the impression of being sexually repressed people feeding on the things others do."
Some found the graphic descriptions of sexual encounters in the report necessary because of Mr. Clinton's insistence that certain acts were not, in fact, sex. But Mr. Starr's failure so far to produce evidence against Mr. Clinton in the areas he originally set out to investigate, such as the Whitewater land deal, has led many other to question his motives and cast him as the villain in the public spectacle.
"I think he's just out to get Clinton," said Ms. Scheck, the Tallahassee social worker. "Anything and everything that he can possibly find, he scoops up. It's just annoying at this point. He didn't find anything with Whitewater and now he just kept on with it until he found something."
Hector E. Fernandez, 26, a Miami optician, said: "It's embarrassing that Ken Starr has nothing better to do with our money. If they were investigating everyone that had an extramarital affair and had to lose their job thee would be one million people suddenly unemployed."
But Patricia Hooper, 66, an artist and a Republican from Orlando, said she supported Mr. Starr because "he stood for what he thought was right and didn't back down and run away because it was the President."
Mr. Montes de Oca, who supports Mr. Clinton, did not blame Mr. Starr, either. "It was his job," he said. "People criticize but they keep reading, and the media keeps fanning the issue as if this were a soap opera. It shows total immaturity. It's like being in high school."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); 

CITY: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: GAINESVILLE SUN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; SEX POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); IMPEACHMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); WITNESSES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); ETHICS (68%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



366 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE PRESIDENT;
For Clinton, The Focus In an Address Is on Policy

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Acknowledging that it had been an "exhausting and difficult week," President Clinton tried today to move away from his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky and back to his policy agenda, announcing new grants to fight drugs and calling on Congress to support his economic priorities.
"It's been an exhausting and difficult week in the capital -- not only for me, but for many others," Mr. Clinton said in his weekly radio address, which he delivered from the White House this morning. "But, as I told my Cabinet on Thursday, we cannot lose sight of our primary mission, which is to work for the American people and especially for the future of our children." 
 Mr. Clinton announced $8.7 million in Federal grants to 93 anti-drug programs intended to prevent drug use among children. The grants, from $16,000 to $100,000, are to be matched locally by the programs in 43 states.
President Clinton said that while drug use had dropped by half over all in the United States since 1979, it had increased among young people. Mr. Clinton acknowledged that the amounts of the grants were "not large." But, he said, "if these grants empower communities to do more of what works to keep young people away from the scourge of drugs, their effect will be enormous."
The grant program was created under the Drug Free Communities Act passed in 1997, which the President hailed today as a model of bipartisanship.
The President did not directly address the disclosure of the Whitewater independent counsel's report into his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. But White House aides and lawyers worked through the night to prepare a rebuttal to the prosecutors' accusations of perjury, obstruction of justice and abuse of power.
Mr. Clinton focused instead on the fights he had hoped to wage this fall, for popular positions on Social Security, education and the environment. In particular, he emphasized his plans to continue economic growth, a theme since he first ran for President in 1992. He called on Congress to increase financing for the International Monetary Fund to help calm international economic turmoil.
"It is truly encouraging to me how we have put aside partisan differences to save our children and their future from drugs," Mr.Clinton said. "We have to do that on other issues critical to our future. And even in the weeks before the election in November, we must stay focused on your business."
Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, the White House director of drug control policy, said the programs receiving grants were selected from among 500 applicants.
"This is not viewed as a permanent process," General McCaffrey said, "but instead as a way to jump-start community coalitions."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: SEX; ETHICS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY GRANTS & GIFTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ETHICS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); LAWYERS (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W; BENNET, JAMES BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



367 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE LEGACY;
As Clinton Library Is Planned, Tough Questions Abound

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Sept. 10

 BODY:
Here on the south bank of the Arkansas River, on a site now strewn with weedy lots and aging warehouses, one version of Bill Clinton's history will be written some day.
And as Little Rock leaders and Clinton friends stoically confront the tasks of raising money and sketching plans for the proposed Clinton Presidential Library, they are encountering questions not only about how the President's perilous political status may shape the legacy that the museum must portray but also about how his problems will dampen the fund-raising enthusiasm needed to build it. 
 Several prominent Presidential historians and biographers said in interviews this week that the Clinton library, if it is to maintain any credibility, would have to include some substantive treatment of Mr. Clinton's extramarital relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky, a former White House intern, and of the investigation and subsequent report of the President's activities by Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel.
Obviously, they said, the historical weight that should be given to the tortured sixth year of the Clinton Presidency will be determined well after events run their course, including possible impeachment proceedings.
But regardless of the outcome, the historians said it was clear that this year's events would demand interpretation, presenting an unenviable task for the curator who has to tell the seamiest of American political stories with integrity, context and taste. Already, library planners have started to hear tongue-in-cheek suggestions about exhibiting the most salacious artifact of this scandal, Ms. Lewinsky's stained dress.
"You don't want a Presidential library with a bimbo hall of fame, but they're going to have to deal with these issues in some way," said Douglas Brinkley, a historian at the University of New Orleans and the author of "The Unfinished Presidency: Jimmy Carter's Journey Beyond the White House" (Viking Press, 1998). Perhaps, Mr. Brinkley suggested, a skillful curator could depict Mr. Clinton's extramarital relationships as part of an exhibition on the breakdown of family life in the latter half of the century, portraying the President as "a generational figure."
Edmund Morris, a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer of Theodore Roosevelt whose new book, "Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan," is to be published soon by Random House, said the Clinton library, unlike most other Presidential museums, would not be able to indulge in sentimentality.
"The instinct of Presidential libraries is always to immortalize," Mr. Morris said, "and in this case they're going to be confronted with the impossible task of immortalizing somebody who is manifestly mortal."
Mr. Clinton has not selected an architect or curator for his library, nor have his supporters started to raise the estimated $80 million to $100 million needed to build and endow it. Any serious discussion of the library's exhibitions, therefore, is years away.
But Skip Rutherford, the president of the William J. Clinton Presidential Foundation, which will design and finance the library, agreed that the Starr report and the Lewinsky matter would have to be acknowledged in balance with Clinton achievements like eliminating the Federal budget deficit, reforming welfare, repositioning the Democratic Party and working for peace in Bosnia and Northern Ireland.
"Presidential libraries are not about someone being perfect," said Mr. Rutherford, a Little Rock public relations executive and civic leader who has known Mr. Clinton for nearly 25 years. "They're not shrines or pyramids. They're about history, about the wins, the defeats, the successes, the failures, the goods, the bads of the time the President is in office."
In fact, several of the country's 11 Presidential libraries have been criticized over the years for being monuments more than museums. In many instances, historians and curators said, the libraries have managed to present a fuller portrait of Presidential shortcomings only after a significant passage of time, or after the death of the former President. The Ronald Reagan Library in Simi Valley, Calif., now provides a much fuller explanation of the Iran-contra affair than it once did, and the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum in Austin, Tex., has changed its exhibits to emphasize how the Vietnam War divided the nation.
The National Archives operates 10 Presidential libraries, which serve as both museums and repositories for documents. The libraries are built with private money, and then transferred to the Government on the day of dedication. The Nixon Library and Birthplace Foundation, in Yorba Linda, Calif., is not part of the Federal system because of continuing litigation by the Nixon estate over records and tape recordings that were seized by the Government when President Nixon resigned from office in 1974.
Like Americans elsewhere, many residents of Little Rock are wrestling with feelings of disappointment and betrayal at Mr. Clinton's actions. For some here, those emotions are made more personal by their intense familiarity with the former Arkansas Governor and by their sense that his behavior has stigmatized their state.
But this city of 175,000 is also learning to make peace with the worst of its history, as shown last year by the dedication of a museum commemorating the ugly standoff over integration at Central High School in 1957. And there are few apparent signs in Little Rock that the Clinton library has become undesirable, at least partly because the 26.6-acre site selected by the President late last year is vital to the city's efforts to redevelop its long-dormant riverfront.
"For us, this is an economic development issue pure and simple," said Harold E. Boldt, the city's finance director, "and you shouldn't let politics get in the way of it."
In recent years, Little Rock has a new marketplace, city library, science and history museum, amphitheater, restaurants, taverns and galleries develop along the Arkansas River. A riverfront convention center is being expanded, and an 18,000-seat arena is rising just across the river in North Little Rock.
Little Rock plans to donate the land for the Clinton project, buying 10 parcels with $11 million generated by a $16.4 million sale of revenue bonds in June. The bond sale has inspired a lawsuit by residents concerned that the deal was illegal because the bonds are secured by revenues from the city's zoo and golf courses, which received only a small fraction of the bond proceeds.
The method allowed the city to sell the bonds quickly without a public referendum, which would have been required if the city had sold general obligation bonds. The city has yet to decide how to replace the $1.3 million -- about 1 percent of the city budget -- that will be needed to pay annual debt service on the bonds.
Mr. Rutherford and Mayor Jim Dailey estimate that the Clinton library will draw 300,000 visitors a year, with a direct annual economic impact of $10 million. None of the existing Presidential libraries have attracted that many visitors in the last three years. But many of those libraries are off the beaten path, even when located in large cities like Boston (Kennedy) and Atlanta (Carter), and Little Rock officials think that the synergy between the library and other riverfront attractions will increase attendance.
Though Mr. Rutherford has yet to begin a formal fund-raising campaign, he expressed supreme confidence in his foundation's ability to collect the needed checks.
"There have been commitments, and they are substantial," he said, declining to be more specific. "Have some occurred in the last week? You bet. I have every confidence that we will meet and exceed our goal."
Mr. Rutherford, 48, who befriended Mr. Clinton as they watched their young daughters play softball, can only hope that other friends share his sense of loyalty.
"I was raised in a family of personal forgiveness," he said. "I'm not saying this hasn't been tough, but a 25-year-old friendship is not something you walk away from."
But several Little Rock business leaders said they assumed that the scandal in Washington would make it significantly more challenging to raise money for the library.
"People here are shocked, even those that might have suspected the President had these dalliances," said Carmie L. Henry, the vice president for government affairs of the Arkansas Electric Cooperatives. "I sense a real hush across the state."
Another Little Rock businessman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that many Arkansans took the view that they gave generously to Mr. Clinton's two Presidential campaigns only to see the state's reputation suffer because of his failings.
"People are wondering what happened to the return on investment," the businessman said. "To contemplate a significant fund-raising campaign now just makes you tired."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Skip Rutherford, president of the foundation that will design and finance the Clinton library, showed the area where it will be built. (Kelly Quinn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON, WILLIAM J, PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY NIXON LIBRARY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON, WILLIAM J, PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CLINTON PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY (LITTLE ROCK, ARK); ETHICS LIBRARIES (92%); HISTORY (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); SCANDALS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); ETHICS (65%); FAMILY (61%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SACK, KEVIN; RUTHERFORD, SKIP; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



368 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 56; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN;
The Democratic Candidates for Governor at a Glance

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
On Tuesday, Democratic voters will choose a candidate to face Gov. George E. Pataki from among four contenders: Charles J. Hynes, James L. Larocca, Betsy McCaughey Ross and Peter F. Vallone.
All four favor abortion rights, more money for early childhood education and day care, and drug treatment as an alternative to prison. They all also agree that the state should reduce its debt, ban anti-gay discrimination and help guarantee health insurance for the working poor. 
 The candidates' resumes are diverse, but they have one thing in common: for each, this is a leap at something far beyond what their careers have held so far.
Ms. McCaughey Ross, the Lieutenant Governor, who a year ago switched from Republican to Democrat, had been a college professor and a writer for a consulting group before Governor Pataki chose her as his running mate in 1994. This is her first run for office on her own.
Mr. Vallone, the Speaker of the New York City Council, was a politically active lawyer, then a Council member for the last 25 years.
Mr. Hynes, like Mr. Vallone, has never been elected to any office but the one he holds now -- District Attorney for Brooklyn -- though he had a long string of appointive posts in government.
And Mr. Larocca has never run for elective office. Like Mr. Hynes, he held a series of appointive posts, but he left government 13 years ago for private business and a law practice. RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos:
 
"Elizabeth Peterkin McCaughey Ross"

CURRENT JOB -- Lieutenant Governor of New York State
 
BORN -- Oct. 20, 1948, in Pittsburgh
 
HOMETOWN -- Manhattan
 
EDUCATION -- Mary Burnham School for Girls, Northampton, Mass.; B.A., Vassar College, 1970; master's degree in constitutional history, Columbia University, 1972; Ph.D. in constitutional history, Columbia University, 1976
 
CAREER -- Lieutenant Governor, 1995-present, elected as a Republican; senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, 1993-94; senior scholar at the Center for the Study of the Presidency, 1989-92
 
FAMILY -- Married in 1995 to Wilbur L. Ross Jr., a Wall Street investment banker; divorced in 1994 from Thomas McCaughey, a Wall Street investment banker; three children: Amanda, 18; Caroline, 16, and Diana, 14
 
Issues
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE -- Favors banning soft money (unregulated contributions to parties) and limiting special-interest contributions
 
CRIME -- Supports capital punishment, legislation to require trigger locks on all handguns and a law to hold adults legally responsible when a child causes injury or death with a gun
 
EDUCATION -- Supports universal prekindergarten and educational day care, and a statewide program to help first graders with reading before they fall behind, and to make sure that all children master reading by the third grade
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT -- Favors lowering both residential and commercial utility rates in order to promote a competitive environment, and supports tax credits for research investments and job retraining for adults
 
WEB SITE -- www.betsy98.com
 
"Charles Joseph Hynes"
 
CURRENT JOB -- District Attorney for Brooklyn
 
BORN -- May 28, 1935, in Brooklyn
 
HOMETOWN -- Brooklyn
 
EDUCATION -- B.A., St. John's University, 1957; St. John's University Law School, 1961
 
CAREER -- Elected Brooklyn District Attorney in 1989, re-elected in 1993 and 1997; adjunct professor of trial advocacy at Fordham Law School since 1994 and St. John's Law School and Brooklyn Law School since 1983; finished third in a four-way Democratic primary for state attorney general in 1994
 
FAMILY -- Married to Patricia Lee Pennisi, registered nurse; five children: Kevin, Sean, Patrick, Jeannie and Lisa
 
Issues
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE -- Favors free radio and television time and print coverage and banning all campaigning until six weeks before a party convention
 
CRIME -- Opposes capital punishment, favors repeal of the state's death penalty law and supports sharply limited parole for violent offenders
 
EDUCATION -- Supports expansion of prekindergarten and kindergarten
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT -- Proposed tax-free urban enterprise zones, revitalization of tourism, a mutual cooperation pact for regional economic development, establishment of business institutes at all State University campuses, and stronger support for farmers and agriculture.
 
WEB SITE -- www.hynes98.org
 
"James Lawrence Larocca"
 
CURRENT JOB -- Lawyer
 
BORN -- Aug. 29, 1943, in Brooklyn
 
HOMETOWN -- Huntington, N.Y.
 
EDUCATION -- Utrecht High School, Brooklyn; Niagara University, 1960-62; B.A., Hofstra University, 1964; law degree, Catholic University, 1974.
 
CAREER -- Trustee of the State University of New York at Stony Brook, since 1988; State Energy Commissioner, 1977-83; State Transportation Commissioner, 1983-85
 
FAMILY -- Married in 1971 to Dale Maizels, teacher at C.W. Post College; three children: Joshua, 25; Amy, 22, and Michael, 17
 
Issues
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE -- Favors lower limits on individual campaign contributions, to $1,000 from $14,000 per candidate in the primary and to $5,000 from $28,000 in general elections; urges eliminating all company and corporate contributions; would ban speaking fees and honorariums for statewide elected officials, and would limit spending by statewide candidates -- from all sources, including personal funds -- to no more than the equivalent of $1 per registered voter
 
CRIME -- Supports capital punishment and increased drug treatment and educational programs for those convicted of nonviolent and drug-related crimes as alternatives to incarceration
 
EDUCATION -- Supports all-day prekindergarten and kindergarten and favors cutting tuition by 25 percent for both SUNY and CUNY
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT -- Favors creating economic development partnerships in every major region of the state, and cutting local property taxes.
 
WEB SITE -- www.jimlarocca.com
 
"Peter Fortunato Vallone"
 
CURRENT JOB -- Speaker of the New York City Council
 
BORN -- Dec. 13, 1934, in Queens
 
HOMETOWN -- Queens
 
EDUCATION -- Power Memorial Academy; B.A, Fordham University, 1956; Fordham University Law School, 1959
 
CAREER -- Speaker of New York City Council, since 1989; elected to Council in 1974; member since 1962 of the law firm of Vallone & Vallone, founded by his father in 1932
 
FAMILY -- Married in 1958 to Tena Marie Buttigheri, retired elementary school teacher; children: Peter Jr., 37; Perry, 35, and Paul, 31
 
Issues
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE -- Supports limits on contributions and spending, favors public financing of campaigns, urges restrictions on soft money and backs extensive disclosure requirements
 
CRIME -- Supports capital punishment and sharply limited parole for violent offenders
 
EDUCATION -- Favors reducing class size to 18 pupils, keeping public schools open until 7 P.M. to provide a safe after-school environment for working parents, and cutting college tuition in half for students who maintain a B average or better in the State University system
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT -- Backs preferences for New York companies bidding on government programs
 
WEB SITE -- www.vallone98.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (91%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (91%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (91%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (59%); CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF THE PRESIDENCY (59%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (91%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (91%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (91%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (59%); CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF THE PRESIDENCY (59%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GOVERNORS (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); ABORTION (72%); LAWYERS (68%); CHILDREN (57%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); CITIES (53%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; MCCAUGHEY ROSS, BETSY (LT GOV); HYNES, CHARLES J (DIST ATTY); LAROCCA, JAMES; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



369 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Alaska Delegation Pushes Agenda of Development

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12

 BODY:
Rarely has a small delegation from a singular state been as well placed as the three Republicans who represent Alaska in Congress to influence the development of their state's -- and the whole nation's -- natural resources.
And few Congressional delegations have been as united, focused and tenacious in espousing development as Senators Ted Stevens and Frank H. Murkowski and Representative Don Young -- or in the eyes of their detractors, as devious and downright ornery in their disregard of the environment. 
 In their commitment to drawing upon the state's resources, in their outspoken contempt for national environmental organizations and in their use of powerful committee posts, the three veteran Alaskan lawmakers exemplify both the use of national power for local interest and the ways in which local attitudes can color national policy.
Mr. Murkowski and Mr. Young, both 65, are chairmen of the Senate and House committees that have jurisdiction over matters at the core of the Alaskan economy and environment: timber, fish, minerals, oil and other natural resources, especially those on Federal lands. And Mr. Stevens, 75, is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, giving him special power to influence policy through the Federal budget.
They have left their marks in spending bills that are now before Congress, with dozens of their provisions sprinkled through several bills drafted by Mr. Stevens's committee. They are flexing their muscles during Senate consideration of the bill to finance the Interior Department, after having added several provisions, including a number that directly affect Alaska. Debate on that bill is expected to continue on Monday.
One amendment to the Interior bill would set the amount of logging in Alaska's Tongass National Forest at a level of timber sales far higher than the United States Forest Service has offered this year. Another would prohibit new regulations by the National Park Service gradually eliminating commercial and subsistence fishing in the waters of Glacier Bay National Park, the largest protected marine ecosystem on the Pacific Coast.
"The wonder isn't that there are the amendments you're talking about," Senator Stevens said in an interview shortly after his committee drafted the bill. "The wonder is that there aren't hundreds more."
Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, has proposed stripping from the bill a number of the Alaska delegation's amendments, along with others that he considers bad for the environment. Mr. Baucus's move could touch off one of the Senate's most contentious environmental fights of the year.
Ordinarily, such policy measures would be enacted by Congress in freestanding bills that would move through Mr. Young's and Mr. Murkowski's committees. But that approach is difficult when the Administration has already threatened to veto spending bills that include what President Clinton calls anti-environmental provisions, thus requiring two-thirds votes in both houses to overturn.
Even if not all their provisions get through, some might. Earlier this year, they got a provision authorizing a new access road in Denali National Park, which the Administration opposed, into a huge highway bill that President Clinton signed.
"I have told my enemies as well as my friends, I'm going to outlive you and outlast you," Mr. Young said. "I will win these wars. Maybe you won't realize what I am doing, but slowly but surely I will win."
Many of their ideas are of particular interest to Alaska, like a provision being pushed by Senator Murkowski that would let the trustees who invest the money from the settlement of the Exxon Valdez oil spill seek higher rates of return, but restrict their purchases of conservation land. Others are of national or even global significance, like Mr. Murkowski's proposal to encourage the Export Import Bank to finance certain development projects abroad, even though they violate the bank's environmental guidelines.
Even without drafting bills, they can exert pressure on Federal agencies through oversight hearings before the committees they run. This summer, after hearings into carrying out the Endangered Species Act, Mr. Young has sent a chill through environmental organizations by writing letters to the Forest Service and Justice Department demanding to know which of their employees previously worked for advocacy groups bringing suits under the law.
The Alaskans are not bothered by the howls of protest coming from environmentalists.
"They are Communists," Mr. Young said. "They believe in the communal ownership of all natural resources, including the land. And they believe that every community that lives off the land should also be owned by the government. That is their ultimate goal."
Mr. Young has a reputation for intemperance on the genteel floor of the House. A few weeks ago, he had to apologize to Representative Maurice D. Hinchey, a New York Democrat, after calling Mr. Hinchey's amendment opposing a road across fragile lands in Alaska "mischievous," "evil," "immoral" and "corrupt."
Mr. Young's denunciation of the amendment, which was defeated, illustrated something else about the delegation: their deep distrust of outsiders' environmental objectives in their state, which consists largely of Federal land.
"That just blows my mind," Mr. Young said, "that someone from New York State, that has never been there, has never seen this area, never talked to the people, can in fact promote something that has been given to him by one of the wilderness associations that promotes its ill will in this capital every day."
Mr. Murkowski said in an interview: "Everything in Alaska becomes a cause for the environmental groups, to raise money and create membership, because it is so far away that people can't see it for themselves. We have sixty-some-odd environmental groups in Anchorage, with offices. Young attorneys come up and do their missionary work, having a new degree in environmental law or something, and they need to have a cause. The cause is membership; the cause is dollars."
To be sure, their foes speak just as bluntly about them.
Kathleen McGinty, the White House's top environmental aide, called the renewed efforts to attach anti-environmental provisions to spending bills "absolute blackmail" and said that the provisions were headed toward a veto.
"It is a persistent sacrificing of the common interest and the public interest for a few special interests," she said of the Alaskans' work. "It is a persistent disrespect of the legislative process. And when you are operating for just a few special interests, you operate behind closed doors and you try to sneak things through."
The three Alaskans have deep roots in the state. Mr. Stevens, who has been in the Senate since 1968, has influenced the Federal relationship with Alaska since before its statehood, serving as an aide to the Interior Secretary in the late 1950's. Mr. Murkowski, first elected in 1980, comes from a banking background and has long held financial interests in Ketchikan, a town that for decades has been at the center of battles over Alaska logging. Mr. Young, who arrived in the House in 1973, is a former boatsman and licensed trapper whose office walls resemble a taxidermist's showroom.
Representative George Miller, a California Democrat who lost his committee chairmanship to Mr. Young when the Republicans took over Congress and who frequently jousts with the Alaskan, says that to fight one member of the delegation is to fight them all.
Late one night in July, debating Mr. Young over logging roads in the Tongass, Mr. Miller acknowledged that his real opponent was Senator Stevens and his amendments in the other chamber.
"I do not like the results, but I have got to admire the talent," said Mr. Miller, who was later chastised by the presiding member of the House for mentioning a Senator by name, a violation of House rules. "He tried to change the forest plans. He tried to go back to the old plans. He tried to increase the cuts. He tried to increase the roads. He tried to bail the industries out of problems. Bang-di-di-bang-di-di-bang -- this guy has never slept."
Mr. Young agreed: "The good Senator, bless his heart, never does sleep."
"Let me just say if this was the World Wrestling Federation, this tag team from Alaska would be the world's champions," Mr. Miller said.
Sometimes the Alaskans forge compromises that set national policy.
Senator Stevens, for instance, worked closely with Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, a liberal Democrat, in crafting a revision of the national fisheries law that enjoyed wide support. And Mr. Young negotiated with the Clinton Administration and conservation groups to come up with a new law governing the operations of wildlife refuges.
But Mr. Murkowski said he was tired of compromise and retreat. "Every time we give, we lose, and we have given so much that the answer is no," he said. "There are no prisoners associated with this discussion."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Don Young, left, and Senators Ted Stevens and Frank H. Murkowski, all of Alaska, support development of natural resources. (Chuck Kleeschulte)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) GLACIER BAY ADVENTURES (53%); SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LEGISLATION (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (72%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (67%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (67%); TRENDS (64%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; STEVENS, TED (SEN); MURKOWSKI, FRANK H (SEN); YOUNG, DON (REPR) DON YOUNG (90%); TED STEVENS (90%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



370 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
If the Yankees Had McGwire, Would McGwire Have the Record?

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Put Mark McGwire in this season's Yankees lineup, and how many games do they win and how many home runs does he hit? Those are questions that will never be answered, but are tantalizing to ponder.
When it became clear to the Oakland Athletics that they had to trade McGwire last year because they were going to lose him as a free agent, the Yankees jumped in at the last minute and expressed interest. 
 "The Yankees wanted to buy Mark for cash," Sandy Alderson, the Oakland president, recalled. "But we rejected the idea. I think their proposal was intended to bait the hook, but it was too late in the day and that wasn't the road we wanted to take. In spite of the fact that we weren't going to get value for value, we wanted to acquire players."
Had the Yankees succeeded in securing McGwire and re-signing him for this season, they and he would have benefited. As strong as the Yankees' lineup has been this season, he would have made it significantly stronger. And if he had remained healthy all season, as he has with St. Louis, there's no reason to think he couldn't have hit all of those home runs with them.
The most difficult problem would have been persuading him to accept what could have been the largest contract ever given a baseball player to remain in New York. That he stayed in St. Louis was even something of an upset.
"We were in New York, then we went home and we made the trade and he had to go back to Philadelphia," a member of the Oakland organization said. "He said, I'll help Tony out, finish the year with him, but no way was he going to stay there. They overwhelmed him."
The Cardinals had some advantages that other teams did not. Tony La Russa, who had been his manager in his first nine years in the major leagues, was the St. Louis manager, and some of the coaches were the same, too. Walt Jocketty, the general manager, had also been in Oakland, as the assistant general manager.
Alderson himself felt McGwire would decide to stay in St. Louis even though he had clearly expressed a desire to play in southern California, where his son lived. "Mark is a humanist," Alderson said. "Those human or personal considerations and relationships mean more to him than geography, as long as he could reconcile the situation and the camaraderie he found there with his desire to be with his son more frequently."
Jocketty, who had relentlessly pursued the trade, thought he had a chance to keep McGwire in St. Louis. Before he made the trade, he studied the southern California teams and decided that not many options would be available to McGwire there. Then the St. Louis fans clinched the deal.
"The first week of September," Jocketty related, "I got a call from his representative, Bob Cohen. Mark wanted him to come to St. Louis and talk to us about a new contract."
The trade and the contract should make Jocketty the executive of this year as well as last.
Some people in St. Louis were critical of the trade, the general manager recalled. "They didn't know Mark McGwire," he said. "I think they compared it to the Blues' deal with Wayne Gretzky. They gave up some young talent and he walked at the end of the season."
But McGwire stayed, and St. Louis is where he broke the home run record. "None of us who were associated with Mark were happy about losing him," Alderson said. "This was not a trade for value. It was strictly an economically compelled trade. Of course we would've loved to have this happen in Oakland, but that hasn't transpired. It's not clear it would have happened in Oakland."
Nor in New York, but it's fun to wonder.
 
The McGwire Effect
Working for the Cardinals, Mark McGwire is making money for other teams. Based on the larger crowds that paid to see him play in Chicago, New York, Pittsburgh, Miami and Cincinnati the past month, McGwire has created about $2.6 million of revenue in additional ticket sales. Add in concessions and parking, and McGwire is a one-man fund-raiser.
He is also making money for himself. A clause in his contract pays him $1 for each Busch Stadium admission beyond 2.8 million; the Cardinals reached that figure in their last home game, which happened to be the game in which he hit No. 62. He has now picked up an extra $7,599 and should earn about $425,000.
"We'll be happy to pay it," General Manager Walt Jocketty said.
McGwire, however, holds another unique position in the baseball economy. He is the only player who ever filed for a salary cut in arbitration. In 1991 McGwire had a $2.85 million salary and earned $25,000 for being named to the All-Star team.
After hitting .201, he submitted the same $2.85 million for a 1992 salary, but it represented a cut because of the bonus he had earned. He and the Oakland Athletics, who filed for $2.45 million, compromised at $2.65 million, and he made an extra $250,000 in bonuses.
 
Johnson Called the Record
Randy Johnson called it two and a half years ago. Speaking in spring training of 1996 about the possibility of someone breaking the home run record, Johnson, then with the Mariners, tabbed his former teammate at the University of Southern California.
"People probably forget about him because he's been injured so much," Johnson said of Mark McGwire. "I'd like to see him with a full year." If McGwire got that year, Johnson added, "I would bet money that if anybody did it, it would be Mark McGwire before anybody else."
McGwire, incidentally, is the first member of a team other than the Yankees since 1919 to hold the home run record. In 1920, Babe Ruth hit 54 home runs, breaking the record of 29 he set the previous season with the Boston Red Sox. Roger Maris succeeded him.
 
Drew's Quiet Debut
 After focusing unfavorable attention on himself for a year by shunning the Philadelphia Phillies' efforts to sign him, J. D. Drew gained a promotion to the major leagues last week when more attention could not have been focused elsewhere. He reported to St. Louis the day Mark McGwire hit his 62d home run.
"He hit 61 before we played yesterday," Drew said before his first game with the Cardinals, referring to his game with their Memphis minor league team. "I was hoping I didn't miss 62 while we were playing. It's nice of him to wait."
Drew made his major league debut in that game, striking out as a pinch-hitter two innings after McGwire broke the record. The next night, after McGwire batted twice before a sellout crowd in Cincinnati, Drew took his spot in the batting order and hit his first home run.
 
Santo Remembers
After it happened, Ron Santo said simply: "What can I say? It just happened, that's all." But 29 years later, the former Chicago Cubs' third baseman had plenty to say when he was asked about a play that was pivotal in the outcome of the first race between the Cubs and the Mets for a post-season spot.
The play occurred in a game between the Cubs and the Phillies in Philadelphia on Sept. 11, 1969. The Cubs had squandered a nine-and-a-half-game lead and had tumbled out of first place the night before with their seventh successive loss. This night they wanted to stop their skid and pull even with the Mets.
They had a 1-0 lead in the third inning, and Dick Selma, their pitcher, had a 3-2 count on Rich Allen with two out and runners at first and second. When he went into his stretch, though, instead of pitching to Allen, Selma threw toward third, figuring he could catch Tony Taylor, who was running with the pitch.
But the throw caught Santo by surprise, and the ball sailed high over his head. The stunned look on his face remains vivid three decades later. Taylor scored the tying run on the pitcher's error, and the Cubs went on to lose.
Santo, now a broadcaster with the Cubs, explained from the safe vantage point of 1998 that he and Selma had worked on a play in spring training that year that was designed for use in the Allen situation.
"He would say to me, 'Knock the ball down,' " Santo related. "That was his clue to me that when he started in the stretch he was going to come to third base. Now this is in September, and we have not had this play on once the whole year.
"Dick Allen's the hitter so I'm playing behind the bag. Moonie yells over, 'Knock the ball down.' I'm thinking, yeah, I'll knock the ball down. I'm getting ready and all of a sudden he throws the ball over my head. I said later what are you doing, and he said, 'We had the play.' I said what play? I said we haven't done that play all season."
Leo Durocher was not a happy manager those days. The division championship was rapidly slipping out of his grasp, and he was powerless to turn his fortunes around.
"I don't want to go in the clubhouse," Santo said, describing the scene. "Durocher is livid. He's all over Selma. I'm standing there and I can't interfere with him because he's so angry. When he stopped yelling, I said, 'Skip, we had that play,' and I explained it to him. He said, 'Moonie, how could you do that when you haven't done the play all year?' "
But Santo all of these years later still accepted some of the blame. "You'd think he would have called me over," he said. "I felt just as guilty of losing that ball game as Selma."
 
Interleague Play's Future
The executive board of the Players Association is in the process of approving interleague play for next season, though the vote will not be unanimous. Some players oppose the format because of the extra travel problems it creates. Representatives of the players and owners hope to work out those problems by the 2000 season.
Although the owners' labor representatives indicated before this season that they wanted to discuss the demise of the designated hitter for next season, they have withdrawn that proposal.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark McGwire signing autographs before Friday night's game in Houston (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; ST LOUIS CARDINALS; OAKLAND ATHLETICS NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); OAKLAND A'S (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; ST LOUIS CARDINALS; OAKLAND ATHLETICS NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); OAKLAND A'S (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (89%); ATHLETES (69%); 

PERSON: MCGWIRE, MARK; CHASS, MURRAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



371 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-15
 
Cuba Frustrates Hopes Of Church After Pope Visit
Roman Catholics in Cuba have grown increasingly frustrated and disappointed since the January visit by Pope John Paul II. Church officials say that while religious people generally feel a greater sense of freedom, the Castro Government has shown little new flexibility in things like admitting foreign priests and nuns or granting permits for religious processions. 1
 
Crucial Election in Bosnia
Bosnians vote in elections that are the most tension-free since the war, and in many ways the most important to Western peace efforts. All offices above the level of municipal council are at stake in the ballot, which pits still-powerful nationalist forces who led the country to disaster against more moderate politicians who want to end strife. 8 

Growing Threat to Amazon
Fires set by farmers and ranchers to clear land in Brazil have become a greater threat than ever to intact rain forest and to indigenous peoples, environmental groups say. The number of fires have more than doubled this year over last, according to Government figures, and many are burning out of control due in large part to the drying effect of El Nino. 4
 
Sifting Solutions in Russia
Russia's new Prime Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, began sorting through a pile of conflicting economic plans and emergency measures that arrived from all quarters. Moscow's Mayor proposed reversing the results of years of privatization efforts. And former Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev offered a blueprint centered on an international rescue plan to guarantee private savings deposits. 8
 
NATIONAL 22-46
 
Clinton Lawyers Push Hard To Counter Starr's Report
Mounting a blistering counterattack to defend President Clinton from impeachment, the White House rejected the independent counsel's charges of abuse of the Presidency as a "hit-and-run smear campaign" deliberately steeped in gratuitous "pornographic specificity," in a 42-page detailed rebuttal of the 445-page series of accusations and revelations -- officially known as a referral -- submitted to Congress on Friday by Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel. 1
 
Kenneth W. Starr, a deeply religious man, whose father, a fundamentalist minister, used to deliver sermons back home in Texas on the perils of women in Bermuda shorts, has sent an impeachment report to Congress chock full of explicit sexual details. 1
 
As chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Henry J. Hyde has suddenly been thrust into the most visible and difficult role in his political life as he prepares to preside over any impeachment inquiry against Mr. Clinton. 1
 
Acknowledging that it had been an "exhausting and difficult week," President Clinton tried to turn the nation's attention toward his policy agenda, announcing new grants to fight drugs and calling on Congress to support his economic priorities. 37
 
Minnesota Sons in Primary
The candidates seeking the Democratic nomination for governor of Minnesota includes the sons of two former Vice Presidents, the son of a former Minnesota Governor and the son of a department store magnate. The front-runner in the primary on Tuesday is Hubert H. Humphrey 3d, the State Attorney General, whose father's memory still evokes reverence in the state. 22
 
NEW YORK/REGION 49-61
 
After Quick, Strong Start, Ferraro's Campaign Falters
With two days to go until the state primary, the nomination of Geraldine A. Ferraro as the Democratic candidate for United States Senate over two rivals, Mark Green and Charles E. Schumer, has come to be viewed as anything but assured. Many Democratic leaders, pointing to public and private polls, as well as anecdotal evidence, say they wonder if they are watching the final days in public life for the woman who made history 14 years ago by running for vice president. 49
 
One Minute in Harlem
Although not as violent as the 1988 Tompkins Square Park riot or other clashes between crowds and the police, the Sept. 5 youth rally in Harlem that ended in a brief but furious melee has disrupted the already tenuous relationship between the Giuliani administration and the city's black population. An analysis of videotapes, radio broadcasts and eyewitness accounts shows how four factors caused the event to explode in conflict just when it seemed to be nearing a peaceful end: the appearance of a police helicopter; the tossing of a chair at police officers; the closing words of the rally's organizer, Khallid Abdul Muhammad, and the phalanx of officers making for the generator just behind the stage -- all taking place within one minute. 49
 
Suspended Officer Apologizes
A New York City police officer who was suspended Friday for wearing blackface on a Labor Day float in Queens came forward yesterday morning, apologizing for his actions and asking to be forgiven for what he termed a "terrible mistake." The 30-year-old officer, Joseph Locurto, has been suspended without pay. 51
 
OBITUARIES 62-63
 
Cong. Vote 59
 
Weather 61

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CUBA (91%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CUBA (91%); BRAZIL (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); IMPEACHMENT (86%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); MAYORS (76%); WEATHER (74%); ARSON (73%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); EL NINO & LA NINA (68%); RAIN FORESTS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); DRUG POLICY (60%); PEACE PROCESS (56%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



372 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 2;Page 14;Column 1;Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 5011 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/THEATER;
THE ANNOTATED LISTINGS

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS

 BODY:
Here is a selective guide to coming theatrical events in New York City and beyond. Unless indicated otherwise, all dates listed are for openings, all addresses are in Manhattan, and all telephone numbers have a 212 area code. The addresses and phone numbers of frequently mentioned theaters are on page 19.
 
September
 
THE SECRET HISTORY OF THE LOWER EAST SIDE -- It sure doesn't get any more site-specific than this: three plays about the Lower East Side, performed on the roof of a high school on the Lower East Side. En Garde Arts, the wandering theatrical flock that makes its nests in the unlikeliest of places, unveils an evening of works by Carlos Murillo, Peter Ullian and Alice Tuan. Opens tonight. The roof of Seward Park High School, 350 Grand St. (279-4200) 
CULTURE OF DESIRE -- The idiosyncratic Anne Bogart tackled the visionary Robert Wilson last season in "Bob." Now she takes on that guru of pop art, Andy Warhol. In previews. Opens Wednesday. New York Theater Workshop.
A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE -- Michael Wilson, the ambitious new artistic director at Hartford Stage, begins a marathon re-examination of Williams with this overwhelmingly lyrical New Orleans tragedy. In previews. Opens Wednesday. Hartford Stage, Hartford. (860-527-5151)
WIT -- Margaret Edson's smart and compassionate exegesis of a terminally ill professor, played by the excellent Kathleen Chalfant. A wrenching look at how a hospital treats a dying woman who happens to be a John Donne scholar. In previews. Opens Thursday. MCC Theater, 120 W. 28th St. (727-7765)
GYPSY -- It's Betty Buckley's turn. She's the mother of all stage mothers in one of the all-time great backstage musicals. The production, directed by Mark Waldrop ("When Pigs Fly"), features Deborah Gibson as Gypsy and Lenny Wolpe as Herbie. In previews. Opens next Sunday. Paper Mill Playhouse, Millburn, N.J. (973-376-4343)
THE MYSTERY OF IRMA VEP -- The incorrigibly campy spirit of the late Charles Ludlam again invigorates the theater district with this revival of the 1984 Gothic spoof that ran and ran and ran. Here's hoping things get completely out of hand. In previews. Opens Oct. 1. Westside Theater, 407 W. 43d St. (239-6200)
THE UNEASY CHAIR -- Evan Smith's comedy pits a spinster landlord against a confirmed bachelor who has a room in her boardinghouse. Dana Ivey and Roger Rees hope to drive each other crazy, onstage at any rate. In previews. Opens Oct. 4. Playwrights Horizons.
A NIGHT IN NOVEMBER -- Dan Gordon plays a spectrum of Northern Irish characters in the return of this acclaimed one-man show by Marie Jones about hostilities in Belfast on the day of a crucial soccer match. In previews. Opens Oct. 4. Douglas Fairbanks Theater, 432 W. 42d St. (239-6200)
ELABORATE LIVES: THE LEGEND OF AIDA --Walt Disney Theatrical Productions, fresh from the World Series-size triumph of "The Lion King," tries out Elton John and Tim Rice's version of the story of Aida in the precincts of the nonprofit theater world. Nineteen songs by Messrs. John and Rice, and a book by Linda Woolverton are being staged by Robert Jess Roth. Will Disney rise yet again? In previews. Opens Oct. 7. Alliance Theater Company, Atlanta. (404-733-4600)
MARCO POLO SINGS A SOLO -- The John Guare year commences for the Signature Theater Company, the group that gives you one living American playwright's oeuvre each year. Mel Shapiro, who directed the original production at the Public Theater in 1977, is reunited with Mr. Guare, guiding a cast that includes Polly Holliday and Chuck Cooper. Previews begin Tuesday. Opens Sept. 25. Signature Theater Company.
ELECTRA -- Zoe Wanamaker took London by storm in Sophocles' tale of homicide and parricide. Ms. Wanamaker and the director David Leveaux try to draw blood again in Frank McGuinness's visceral adaptation. Claire Bloom, Pat Carroll and Stephen Spinella are among those joining the cast. Previews begin Tuesday. Opens Friday. McCarter Theater, Princeton, N.J. (609-683-8000)
MEASURE FOR MEASURE -- The far-out Target Margin Theater, which had a particular success last season with "Mamba's Daughters," inaugurates another year of tweaking the classics with a new version of Shakespeare's problem play, directed by the estimable David Herskovits. Previews begin Wednesday. Opens Sept. 23. Connelly Theater, 220 E. Fourth St. (358-3657)
THE DYING GAUL -- Craig Lucas's angry, if uneven, satire returns with Cotter Smith, Linda Emond and Tim Hopper in Mark Brokaw's expertly staged production. Performances begin Friday. Vineyard Theater.
DEATH OF A SALESMAN -- The oldies often have the goodies, and the director Robert Falls hopes he has gathered a basketful in his cast: Brian Dennehy as a big, barrel-chested Willy Loman; Elizabeth Franz as Linda and Kevin Anderson as Biff. Previews begin Friday. Opens Sept. 28. Goodman Theater, Chicago. (312-443-3800)
HESH -- A tug-of-war across the generation gap, set in the Bronx and spanning 20 years in the struggle between a father and son. Frank Pugliese directs Matthew Weiss in Mr. Weiss's own script for Naked Angels. Previews begin Saturday. Opens Sept. 27. Intar Theater, 420 W. 42d St. (479-7304)
OEDIPUS -- Colleges have their Greek weeks; New York seems to be getting a whole season. Billy Crudup ("Arcadia") and Frances McDormand, an Oscar winner for "Fargo," are the big names in this Blue Light Theater Company adaptation by Dare Clubb that is being billed as "a new play." Uh huh. Previews begin next Sunday. Opens Oct. 11. Classic Stage Company. (279-4200)
'TIL THE RAPTURE COMES -- A drama with an Appalachian accent arrives in the young playwright Edward Napier's small-town study of unhappiness and addiction. Pamela Berlin ("Steel Magnolias") directs the dependable Pamela Payton-Wright. Previews begin Sept. 22. Opens Oct. 6. WPA Theater.
CORPUS CHRISTI --Terrence McNally and the Manhattan Theater Club have been playing it close to the vest about this modern Christian allegory concerning the spiritual quest of a gay man, presumably modeled on Jesus. When word got out last spring about the play's content, conservative religious groups called for a boycott, anonymous threats were reported to have been made and the theater canceled the production. An uproar among playwrights and others in the theater world led to a reinstatement of the play, and now the public gets to see what all the fuss is about. Previews begin Sept. 22. Opens Oct. 13. Manhattan Theater Club.
IMPOSSIBLE MARRIAGE -- Beth Henley, a Pulitzer Prize winner for the tear-stained comedy "Crimes of the Heart," looks into the union of a woman and her older, unattractive, unfaithful husband. The play is also a reunion for Ms. Henley and Holly Hunter, who is her star. Previews begin Sept. 23. Opens Oct. 15. Laura Pels Theater, Roundabout Theater Company.
MEDEA -- The National Theater of Greece, which brought a riveting production of "Electra" to City Center two seasons ago, pays a return visit with another bloody tragedy about a ferocious woman with the murder of her relatives on her rap sheet. Performed in modern Greek with English surtitles. Sept. 23-26. City Center, 130 W. 55th St. (581-1212)
REDHEAD -- The original 1959 production of this musical murder mystery was directed by Bob Fosse. Christopher Ashley directs the revival of an infrequently revived show. Sept. 23-Dec. 13. Goodspeed Opera House, East Haddam, Conn. (860-873-8668)
THE BERLIN CIRCLE -- Shades of Brecht: the Berlin Wall is coming down, the world is changing and a young woman tends to an abandoned child. The visually gifted Tina Landau ("Floyd Collins") directs Charles L. Mee's new spectacle. Previews begin Sept. 24. Opens Oct. 4. Steppenwolf Theater Company, Chicago. (312-335-1650)
DANTE'S INFERNO -- Now this is serious: five performers, including the violinist Gil Morgenstern, explore the first poem of Dante's trilogy "The Divine Comedy," as interpreted through the ages by other artists. From the translation by Robert Pinsky, the United States Poet Laureate, who also adapted it, and directed by Robert Scanlan for the Unterberg Poetry Center at the 92d Street Y. Sept. 26-Oct. 4. Playhouse 91, 316 E. 91st St. (996-1100)
DUET! -- The incisively funny, genre-bending Adobe Theater Company makes a big move, settling into the Actor's Playhouse for a season and starting off with the return of its eclectic, stiletto-sharp spoof of date movies, amusement parks, Catskills comics and third-rate Sinatra knockoffs. Previews begin Sept. 28. Opens Oct. 8. Actor's Playhouse, 100 Seventh Ave. South. (239-6200)
LITTLE ME -- Could this be the vehicle that finally sends Martin Short into the Broadway stratosphere? If all he got to do was his impression of Jerry Lewis singing for an adoring French audience -- "You'll jamais walk alone" -- Mr. Short would be home-free. Whether he does as well as Sid Caesar once did with this 36-year-old musical, based on the novel by Patrick Dennis, with book by Neil Simon, music by Cy Coleman and lyrics by Carolyn Leigh, will soon be apparent. All the signs are promising, though: Mr. Simon has updated the book, Rob Marshall ("Cabaret") is the director and choreographer, and Faith Prince is Mr. Short's co-star. Previews begin Sept. 30. Opens Oct. 29. Roundabout Theater Company.
 
October
 
MORE TO LOVE -- Broadway is the host of a bunch of new playwrights this season, and the first up is Rob Bartlett, sidekick to the cranky king of morning radio, Don Imus. Jack O'Brien directs Mr. Bartlett and Dana Reeve in a comedy about a man on the brink of 40 and success in television. Previews begin Oct. 1. Opens Oct. 15. Eugene O'Neill, 230 W. 49th St. (239-6200)
KILLER JOE -- A nifty cast, including Scott Glenn and Mark Nelson, has a go at Tracey Letts's trailer-trash comedy, first produced at Steppenwolf in Chicago. Previews begin Oct. 1. Opens Oct. 18. Soho Playhouse, 15 Vandam St. (921-9341)
GETTING AND SPENDING -- Romantic comedy makes a reappearance on Broadway as John Tillinger directs Linda Purl in a play by a lawyer-turned-playwright, Michael Chepiga. Previews begin Oct. 2. Opens Oct. 20. Helen Hayes. (239-6200)
BAND IN BERLIN -- Wilkommen back to the final days of the Weimar Republic for this docu-musical based on the experiences of the Comedian Harmonists, five singers and a piano player who thrilled audiences in Germany and around the world, until the Nazis took power and deemed the group's three Jewish members unfit to perform for the German people. The story sounds fascinating, but who came up with the cutesy title? Begins Oct. 2. Opens Oct. 15. Theater to be announced. (307-4100)
FOOTLOOSE -- At last, an entire musical that can be added to the game "Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon." The current craze for turning movie tuners into stage musicals continues with this teen-filled extravaganza, based on the 1984 movie that featured Mr. Bacon and John Lithgow, and one of three original musicals scheduled for Broadway this fall. Walter Bobbie, who brought a nasty 90's edge to "Chicago," will try to gloss over the sappier aspects of the story, adapted from Dean Pitchford's screenplay about an American town so repressed it doesn't allow its high school students to dance. The choreographer A. C. Ciulla sets a cast of 37, including Dee Hoty, Martin Vidnovic and Jeremy Kushnier, hopping. Previews begin Oct. 2. Opens Oct. 22. Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 W. 46th St. (307-4100)
EXPECTING ISABEL -- The playwright Lisa Loomer toyed with the feminine beauty ideal in "The Waiting Room." Her new play, directed by the Arena Stage's former artistic director, Douglas C. Wager, tackles the emotionally complex issue of adoption. Performances begin Oct. 2. Arena Stage, Washington. (202-488-3300)
A COUPLE OF BLAGUARDS -- The best-selling McCourt Brothers, Malachy and Frank, continue to plumb the depths of their impoverished Irish upbringing for dramatic effect. Malachy (the actor in the family) stars in this comedy, written by him and his brother, which mixes tales of growing up in Limerick and New York with Irish songs and poems. Previews begin Oct. 7. Opens Oct. 26. Triad Theater, 158 W. 72d St. (799-4599)
THE OLD SETTLER -- A charming, old-fashioned tear-jerker by John Henry Redwood. The play, set in the Harlem of the 1940's, tells the story of an aging woman, working as a maid, who falls in love with an untutored young man from the South. Leslie Uggams heads a cast directed by Harold Scott. Previews begin Oct. 7. Opens Oct. 28. Primary Stages.
BINLIDS -- Another intriguing Irish entry: a play written and performed by West Belfast women about how the community has lived with British troops in its midst. Fourteen members of the original Northern Irish cast are featured in the production, which is enacted on five stages. Previews begin Oct. 8. Opens Oct. 10. Orensanz Center for the Arts, 172 Norfolk St. (307-4100)
STAND-UP OPERA -- Divas cut down to size. A bona fide soprano, B. J. Ward, sings and sends up the world of big sets, voices and egos in her one-woman Broadway show. Previews begin Oct. 9. Opens Oct. 18. Lyceum Theater, 149 W. 45th St. (239-6200)
THE AFTER-DINNER JOKE -- A 1978 television play by Caryl Churchill, recently represented in New York by "The Skriker" at the Joseph Papp Public Theater, is reworked for the stage. Previews begin Oct. 10. Opens Oct. 16. Currican Theater, 154 W. 29th St. (462-9279)
PERICLES -- The hero of Shakespeare's episodic, late-career romance sails the seas, bound for a heart-rending reunion with his lost child. Brian Kulick directs Jay Goede in the title role. Previews begin Oct. 12. Opens Nov. 1. Joseph Papp Public Theater.
MAMALOSHEN -- Uptown comes Mandy Patinkin's well-received downtown cabaret -- the title means "Mother Tongue" -- of songs in Yiddish. Performances begin Oct. 13. Belasco, 111 W. 44th St. (239-6200)
THE MEMORY OF WATER -- C'mon. Give a hug. The three sisters in Shelagh Stephenson's new comedy mourn their dead mother, argue over unresolved issues and never even dream of Moscow. With J. Smith Cameron. Directed by John Tillinger, the play's New York debut follows its successes in London and Chicago. Previews begin Oct. 13. Opens Oct. 27. Stage 2, Manhattan Theater Club.
THE WORLD MYSTERIES: THE MYSTERIES OF ELEUSIS -- Whew. Yet another brush with Greek. The myth of Demeter and Persephone serves as the imaginative springboard for the Greek director Vasilios Calitsis to create a multimedia spectacle. Oct. 14-17. Majestic Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music.
WOLF LULLABY -- Did the dingo eat another baby? Hillary Bell's tale of the murder of a child in the Australian Outback is directed by Neil Pepe, who staged the crackling "Mojo" last season. Previews begin Oct. 15. Opens Oct. 29. Atlantic Theater Company, 336 W. 20th St. (645-1242)
THIS IS OUR YOUTH -- At long last, Kenneth Lonergan's wryly perceptive and tautly written comedy-drama gets the extended run it deserves, with the superb original cast -- Josh Hamilton, Mark Ruffalo and Missy Yager -- and its masterly director, Mark Brokaw, all back for the reprise. Previews begin Oct. 15. Opens Nov. 5. Second Stage.
ON THE TOWN -- Three sailors, the New York skyline and a new choreographer. George C. Wolfe's production in Central Park of this urbane 1944 musical, with music by Leonard Bernstein and book and lyrics by Betty Comden and Adolph Green, got mixed reviews, and Eliot Feld's dance routines were excoriated. Determined to see it to Broadway, Mr. Wolfe has a new choreographer (Keith Young) and has recast three of the leads. But most important, he has retained the services of Lea DeLaria, magnificent in the role of the lady cabdriver. Previews begin Oct. 20. Opens Nov. 19. Gershwin Theater, 51st St., west of Broadway. (307-4100)
AZNAVOUR ON BROADWAY -- It has been 15 years since the French chanteur Charles Aznavour has been on Broadway -- he did a stint at Carnegie Hall in 1995 -- and he returns for an evening filled with his rich, melodic street songs. Performances begin Oct. 20. Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway. (307-4100)
I'M STILL HERE . . . DAMN IT! -- And don't you forget it! Fresh out of the delivery room, and following up her triumph at Westbeth last fall, Sandra Bernhard takes her rapier wit and buccaneer's tongue to Broadway for a funny and profane assault on fashion, celebrity and anything else that is ticking her off at the moment. Since Ms. Bernhard makes her life a virtual open book, the big question is, will she show off the baby? Previews begin Oct. 21. Opens Nov. 5. Booth Theater, 222 W. 45th St. (239-6200)
KUNI-LEML -- The hit musical by Raphael Crystal and Richard Engquist, about a Jewish woman who rebels against an arranged marriage to a Hasid, is revived by the Jewish Repertory Theater. Performances begin Oct. 24. Playhouse 91.
THE PRIMARY ENGLISH CLASS -- A revival of Israel Horovitz's 1976 comedy about a Babel of an English classroom. Por que? Because Gerald Gutierrez wants to direct and Didi Conn wants to play the teacher. Previews begin Oct. 27. Opens Nov. 12. Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane. (307-4100)
THE RIDE DOWN MOUNT MORGAN -- He could be making a bundle on the big screen, but Patrick Stewart, bless him, keeps returning to his theatrical roots. He has tackled everything from "The Tempest" to "Othello" over the last few years, but now he is going modern, and appearing with Blythe Danner, in Arthur Miller's scathing account of the moral decay of America in the 80's. David Esbjornson directs. Performances begin Oct. 27. Joseph Papp Public Theater.
THE KNEE DESIRES THE DIRT -- A Louisiana woman on the edge is appropriately enough the topic of the Women's Project's first production of the season. Oct. 27-Nov. 22. Theater Four, 424 W. 55th St. (765-2105)
EASTER PARADE -- Famous names from the annals of musical comedy are in short supply on Broadway this season, but here comes a production loaded with them. The multiple Tony winner Tommy Tune directs and stars in this stage adaptation, revised by Peter Stone, of the 1948 MGM movie musical about a song-and-dance man. The perpetually pixie-ish Sandy Duncan is Mr. Tune's partner in selling Irving Berlin's score. Dates and theater to be announced.
SIDE MAN -- Warren Leight's deftly textured memory play moves yet again, this time from the Roundabout to a commercial Broadway run. Performances begin in early October. John Golden Theater, 252 W. 45th St. (239-6200)
 
November
 
MORNING, NOON AND NIGHT -- Spalding Gray's last piece, "It's a Slippery Slope," was about skiing and navigating the paths of fatherhood. His new work-in-progress explores family and community on the East End of Long Island. Performances begin Nov. 2 and continue on Mondays, through Dec. 21. Performance Space 122.
WAITING FOR GODOT -- The leaves are turning brown. Time for a little existential despair. Barry Edelstein ("All My Sons") begins his tenure at the helm of the Classic Stage Company with a production of Samuel Beckett's masterpiece. Directed by Andrei Belgrader. Performances begin Nov. 10. Classic Stage Company.
HOPE IS THE THING WITH FEATHERS -- After a whirlwind year that established it as the New York company of the moment, the Drama Dept. begins another electic (and, hopefully, winning) autumn with a generational play by Frank Pugliese about the intertwining lives of three couples. The Drama Dept. member Randolph Curtis Rand ("Uncle Tom's Cabin") is the director. Performances begin Nov. 11. Greenwich House Theater, 27 Barrow St. (541-8441)
ANNA KARENINA -- Nineteenth-century Moscow onstage, thanks to Shared Experience, an innovative, London-based ensemble. Taking a cue from Theatre de Complicite, creators of "The Street of Crocodiles," this group conjures Tolstoy's world with a few simple props. Nov. 11-15. Majestic Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music.
PARADE -- The story of Leo Frank, a Jewish factory manager wrongly convicted of -- and later lynched for -- the murder of a young girl in Georgia in 1913, sure doesn't sound like the jumping-off point for a major new musical, but that didn't stop the book writer, Alfred Uhry, the composer, Jason Robert Brown, or the director, Harold Prince, the chief architects of "Parade." The musical represents a major-league debut for Mr. Brown. His fortunes changed -- he had been composing revues and incidental theater music -- after Mr. Prince took him under his wing. The cast is headed by Brent Carver (a Tony winner for "Kiss of the Spider Woman") and Carolee Carmello. It is one of the season's high-stakes entries. Previews begin Nov. 12. Opens Dec. 17. Vivian Beaumont Theater.
STRATFORD FESTIVAL AT CITY CENTER -- The beginning of a beautiful partnership? Canada takes one of its most popular tourist destinations on the road in what may become an annual import. "Much Ado About Nothing," with Brian Bedford and Martha Henry, and "The Miser," with William Hutt, are staged by the festival's artistic director, Richard Monette. Nov. 12-29. City Center.
CARRY THE TIGER TO THE MOUNTAIN -- Cherylene Lee's drama for the Pan Asian Repertory Theater is based on the Detroit murder of a Chinese-American beaten to death with a baseball bat by two unemployed auto workers. Nov. 12-Dec. 5. Playhouse at St. Clement's Church, 423 W. 46th St. (245-2660)
SNAKEBIT -- The actor David Marshall Grant ("Angels in America" and "Thirtysomething") turns playwright for this tale of friendship in Hollywood, care of the innovative Naked Angels company. Jace Alexander directs. Performances begin Nov. 12. Grove Street Playhouse, 39 Grove St. (479-7304)
THE MOST FABULOUS STORY EVER TOLD -- And who better to tell it than Paul Rudnick ("In and Out")? This is Genesis as you've never seen it before, a play that begins as a gay retelling of the Bible -- think of a world created in the image of Paul Lynde -- and ends, "Falsettos" style, in the schmaltzy group hug of a makeshift gay family in the present day. Mr. Rudnick's sharp collaborator, Christopher Ashley, re-stages his successful Williamstown Theater Festival production with the delightful Alan Tudyk and Becky Ann Baker. As an added treat, Amy Sedaris joins the cast. Previews begin Nov. 13. Opens early December. New York Theater Workshop.
WORKING -- What a drag the original Broadway production was, as long and tiresome as a grueling day at the office. But a streamlined version by Stephen Schwartz and Nina Faso, presented last season at the smart and resourceful Signature Theater outside Washington, revealed that this musical, inspired by Studs Terkel's remarkable oral history, can be a moving experience. Can it also move to New York? Nov. 13-Dec. 13. Long Wharf Theater, New Haven. (203-787-4282)
STOP KISS -- From "Jeffrey" to "In and Out," man-to-man smooches are all the rage. Here's the distaff counterpoint. Diana Son's comedy, staged by Jo Bonney, features Jessica Hecht and Sandra Oh in a story of what happens after liplock. Performances begin Nov. 17. Joseph Papp Public Theater.
FOOL MOON -- Those New Vaudeville clowns, Bill Irwin and David Shiner, are together again on Broadway in a quick-turnaround revival of their popular night of gags and giggles. Performances begin Nov. 17. Theater to be announced.
CHRISTMAS FROM THE HEART -- Radio City, are you listenin'? Sleigh bells ring, care of Kenny Rogers, who is bringing his own holiday spectacular to the Upper West Side. Nov. 18-Jan. 3. Beacon Theater, Broadway and 74th St. (307-7171)
GRIMM TALES -- Children's theater of the British kind. The Young Vic theater company arrives from London to dramatize a selection of fairy tales, from obscurer stories like "The Hare and the Hedgehog" to such tried and true tales as "Rumpelstiltskin." Nov. 20-Jan. 3. New Victory Theater, 209 W. 42d St. (239-6200)
PETER PAN -- So you won't grow up, huh? Neverland beckons again. Eight years after her first spiriting away of the Darling kids, the former gymnast Cathy Rigby is returning to Broadway in the musical version of the eternal children's classic. Glenn Casale stages this re-re-revival of the 1954 original. Previews begin Nov. 20. Opens Nov. 23. Marquis, 1535 Broadway (307-4100).
FREEDOMLAND -- Howard Shalwitz, artistic director of the Woolly Mammoth Theater, an innovative Washington company, hops the Metroliner to direct Amy Freed's family stew of a comedy about three odd siblings who return to the home of their parents. Performances begin Nov. 20. Playwrights Horizons.
SPREAD EAGLE -- Hmm. A dissolute English stage actor with a certain panache, on the loose in Mexico. Sounds like a job for . . . Brian Murray and, by golly . . . it is! Mr. Murray is the star of a new play by Jim Luigs ("Das Barbecu"), directed by a WPA favorite, Constance Grappo. Performances begin Nov. 24. WPA Theater.
MERCY -- A brief Off Off Broadway run a couple of seasons ago of "Hysterical Blindness," a sweetly on-target piece about a neurotic Jersey girl, was proof of Laura Cahill's talent. Now she's on the move, up to the prestigious Vineyard Theater, with a play about New York yuppies and the quest for happiness. Performances begin Nov. 24. Vineyard Theater.
A CHRISTMAS CAROL -- Madison Square Garden's annual musical retelling of the Dickens classic. Nov. 27-Dec. 27. Theater at Madison Square Garden.
 
December
 
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE -- Andrei Serban's playful "Cymbeline" provided a satisfying end to the summer in Central Park. Now he heads back to Cambridge for a little indoor Shakespeare. Perfomances begin Dec. 11. American Repertory Theater, Cambridge, Mass. (617-547-8300)
THE CAPTAIN'S TIGER -- A portrait of Athol Fugard as a young man. South Africa's major theatrical resource portrays and directs himself in a memory play that surveys the life of a callow writer. Previews begin Dec. 15. Opens Jan. 5. Stage 2, Manhattan Theater Club.
THE EROS TRILOGY -- Nicky Silver ("The Food Chain") must be strapped to a word processor somewhere. His fourth new comedy in as many seasons is on a topic that rarely gets much attention anymore: sex. Ahem. Performances begin Dec. 18. Vineyard Theater.
FOSSE: A CELEBRATION IN SONG AND DANCE -- A potential Christmas gift. The extraordinary career of Bob Fosse who, along with the likes of Jerome Robbins, Michael Kidd and Michael Bennett, broke important new ground on Broadway as an inventive breed of director-choreographer, is reviewed in an evening devoted to his work. Directed by Richard Maltby Jr., with assistance from Fosse's protegee Ann Reinking and Gwen Verdon, who was married to him, the production employs 36 dancers and singers performing numbers in Fosse's signature, sensual style. Previews begin Dec. 26. Opens Jan. 14. Broadhurst Theater, 235 W. 44th St. (239-6200)
SOME VOICES -- The New Group gravitates to yet another London writer, Joe Penhall, and his drama about a mentally ill young man who falls in love with an Irish woman who has been abused by her boyfriend. Theater and dates to be announced.
FAR EAST -- Japan in the 1950's is the backdrop for A. R. Gurney's newest play, sure to get a handsome Lincoln Center Theater production with the smooth and efficient Daniel Sullivan in the director's chair. Dates to be announced. Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater.
 
January
 
MINEOLA TWINS -- "How I Learned to Drive" and a slew of awards, including a Pulitzer Prize, have moved Paula Vogel to the front rank of American dramatists. Her eagerly awaited new play, directed by Joe Mantello, concerns a pair of identical twins from Nassau County -- yes, it's that Mineola -- who are anything but identical in deed, perspective or personality. Performances begin Jan. 6. Roundabout Theater Company.
JAYWALKER -- Marga Gomez, a stand-up standout, in a monologue about running amok in Hollywood. Jan. 7-24. Performance Space 122.
CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS -- The big nonprofit theater companies are all trotting out musicals this season -- many of them original -- and the Manhattan Theater Club weighs in with this long-aborning production, based on the novel by Rudyard Kipling, about a jaded rich boy who falls off a cruise ship and is rescued by fishermen who teach him the golden rule. Treat Williams, making a rare stage appearance, is the star. Previews begin Jan. 12. Opens Feb. 16. Manhattan Theater Club.
ASHES TO ASHES -- Harold Pinter. Major playwright. A new play. Yes, about? Oh, absolutely. Good? Could be. Cast? No word. When? Performances begin Jan. 13. Laura Pels Theater, Roundabout Theater Company.
PARADISE HOTEL -- The prolific Richard Foreman and his Ontological-Hysteric Theater are at it yet again in Mr. Foreman's latest work, a play, in the company's own words, about "a collection of paranoid adventurers dreaming of sexual Nirvana." You got that? Opens Jan. 14. Annex to St. Mark's Church, E. 10th St. and Second Ave. (533-4650)
THE IPHIGENIA CYCLE -- Still hungry for Greek? JoAnne Akalaitis is in the mood, too. The perils of Iphigenia are recounted in Ms. Akalaitis's stagings of a pair of 80-minutes plays, newly translated by Nicholas Rudall. Previews begin Jan. 19. Opens Jan. 24. American Place Theater, 111 W. 46th St. (239-6200)
THE MISANTHROPE -- Roger Rees is forever a Dickensian hero of the downtrodden for anyone who saw his tender Nicholas in the original Royal Shakespeare Company production of "Nicholas Nickleby." In a new version of this Moliere comedy, updated to present-day London, adapted by Martin Crimp and directed by Barry Edelstein, he is playing a man who wouldn't give the down-and-out a second glance. Performances begin Jan. 26. Classic Stage Company.
BRIGHT LIGHTS, BIG CITY -- Attention: E! Network. If this one works, charge up the camera batteries and head on down to East Fourth Street. Jay McInerney's Zeitgeisty novel of shallow, predatory New York in the dangerous, dollar-crazed 80's comes to the stage via the book, music and lyrics of an unhyped Paul Scott Goodman. The director is Michael Greif, who shepherded "Rent" to fame and fortune on the very same stage. Performances begin Jan. 29. New York Theater Workshop.
 
February
 $

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (50%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (50%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (60%); PAPER & PACKAGING (52%); WRITERS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



373 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 43; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Manifest Destiny

BYLINE: By Adam Garfinkle; Adam Garfinkle is the executive editor of The National Interest.

 BODY:

WHAT AMERICA OWES THE WORLD
 The Struggle for the Soul
 of Foreign Policy.
 By H. W. Brands.
 326 pp. New York:
 Cambridge University Press. Cloth, $49.95. Paper, $17.95. 
 On a few occasions I have inflicted a course entitled "Wisdom of the Ages" on graduate students at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. The course teaches the intellectual bloodlines of United States foreign policy by focusing on key thinkers and practitioners from Revolutionary times to the present. When compiling the syllabus, I wished for a book like H. W. Brands's "What America Owes the World" -- for Brands generally manages to trace those bloodlines concisely and with consummate skill.
A professor of history at Texas A&M University, Brands organizes his effort around a key dichotomy: exemplarism versus vindicationism. These somewhat clunky terms signify the difference between those Americans who have believed that the United States owes the world only its example, and those who have believed that it owes a more vigorous and direct sharing of its gifts. Both groups have presumed the existence of those gifts -- that's what American exceptionalism is about, after all -- a presumption made vivid in Brands's opening chapter, which deals with America's first century, or roughly half of American history. Such economy makes sense for, as Brands points out, the conflict between exemplarism and vindicationism could not mature until the United States had grown into a world power.
Once he arrives at the Spanish-American War, Brands weaves the major events of a period around a key thinker (or, occasionally, a pair of thinkers). His main men are Brooks Adams, Walter Lippmann, Lincoln Steffens, Charles Beard, George Kennan paired with Hans Morgenthau, Reinhold Niebuhr, Herman Kahn, William Appleman Williams and Norman Podhoretz. As he proceeds from one to the next, Brands adeptly draws connections between ideas, circumstances and authors (though he sometimes gets so involved in pocket biography that his theme seems to vanish for pages at a time). What he also achieves, without mentioning it, is an illumination of the direct and indirect power of political journalism, by showing how Harper's, The New Republic, Commentary and other magazines have influenced public policy over the years.
Brands concludes by suggesting that the battle between exemplarists and vindicators has not, cannot and should not end. As he puts it, "the outcome to aim for is what Morgenthau might have called a balance of intellectual and moral power, with each side keeping its arguments sharp, the better to keep the other honest."
His own narrative is true to this spirit of dialectical centrism. Brands does not side with exemplarists or vindicators but, rather, arrays them in context. "History has proven both parties to the debate right," he says, because both sides possess a part of the larger but more elusive truth.
Brands is not completely balanced, however. He does incline slightly leftward, particularly as the subject matter becomes more contemporary (he less picks than picks on Norman Podhoretz, for example). His choices of the obscure and obscurantist Adams, the erratic if colorful Steffens and the revisionist Williams also suggest a greater interest in, if not sympathy for, men of the left. And some fairly important figures go missing: Frederick Jackson Turner is never mentioned; Alfred Thayer Mahan is barely noted.
Nevertheless, it isn't easy to pack so much, and so well, into just over 300 pages. Brands's keen sense of intellectual evolution and knack for vivid summary often lead him close to wisdom, a virtue enhanced by a judicious use of quotations from his principals. The writing is unfailingly clear, often lyrical, occasionally witty. The book's imperfections notwithstanding, students of foreign policy should count themselves lucky to have "What America Owes the World" at hand. At least one instructor does.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WHAT AMERICA OWES THE WORLD (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FIRST CREDIT UNION (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (56%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (56%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: GARFINKLE, ADAM; BRANDS, H W

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998



374 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Intel's positive forecast leads many analysts to think that technology stocks' worst may be past.

BYLINE: By Lawrence M. Fisher 

 BODY:
INVESTORS seized on some unexpected good news Friday from Intel, Oracle and National Semiconductor to drive technology shares higher.
Upside surprises have been few and far between in recent months, so there is a strong incentive among prospective stock buyers to extrapolate a recovery in technology from these three data points. And indeed, some analysts said that so many companies had either warned beforehand of poor results or had come in below estimates in the quarters ending in March and June that a sizable number would now beat Wall Street's diminished expectations for September and December. Whether that kind of performance qualifies as a recovery is still open to discussion. 
 Look at Intel, which said Friday that its third-quarter sales would be 8 to 10 percent higher than the $5.9 billion reported in the second quarter, rather than flat, as it had suggested earlier. While 10 percent sequential revenue growth is enormous, it is only in comparison to the weak June quarter, which showed no revenue growth over the period a year earlier and a 29 percent drop in earnings.
Similarly, National Semiconductor said revenue would be up over earlier forecasts because of strong August orders, but it said orders were still down 30 percent, year over year.
For its part, Oracle announced per-share earnings on Thursday that were several cents above analysts' estimates, thanks primarily to stronger-than-expected license revenue from its traditional data base business. But in applications, where Oracle has placed its hopes for growth, revenue was flat, and the company still lags far behind rivals like Peoplesoft and SAP of Germany. Oracle remains the dominant data base company, but that market is widely regarded as mature.
Nevertheless, many analysts are ready to call a bottom. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index, which reached a peak late in April, nearly three months earlier than the broader technology sector as reflected by the Nasdaq composite index, may also turn out to be an early indicator of a market turnaround. The semiconductor index was up 8.70, to 211.52, on Friday and has now gained 11 percent from its 52-week low on Sept. 1 of 190.04.
"The PC inventory correction is over and PC demand is seasonally higher in the second half of the year," said Mark Edelstone, an analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. He noted that the pickup in National Semiconductor's orders was primarily in the company's personal computer-based product lines, and that Intel, of course, was uniquely positioned to benefit from stronger PC sales.
"Intel is the first company to get healthy," he said. "The rest of the industry still lags."
Mr. Edelstone said he did not expect many positive surprises in the semiconductor business in the third quarter, but he does in the fourth. "We will see a contraction of the negative surprises," he said. "In the second quarter, more than 20 semiconductor companies preannounced negatives; 55 percent were below estimates. I think we can cut that number in half."
Michael Murphy, editor of the California Technology Stock Letter, takes an even more bullish view. "What's going to happen going forward is what we're seeing today," Mr. Murphy said on Friday. After scaling back earnings estimates in the first half of the year, "in the September and December quarters, technology companies are going to beat estimates pretty generally because we're in the right part of the product cycle," he said, adding, "At the same time, the Asian crisis is finally biting in the old economy."
Technology companies could flourish even as blue-chip companies head into recession because they are typically driven by product cycles rather than economic cycles. With the Microsoft Corporation's release of Windows 98 in May, and its anticipated release of Windows NT 5.0 next year, more corporations are likely to upgrade their PC's, and that will ripple through the industry, Mr. Murphy said, giving a lift to makers of semiconductors, disk drives and software.
John Rossi, a managing director with BancAmerica Robertson Stephens, said technology stocks were the first to fall as a result of the Asian crisis but might also be the first to recover.
"The blue-chip companies took longer to feel the effects of Asia, but next year a lot of these companies will do the bulk of their spending to fix year 2000 problems," Mr. Rossi said. "Maybe not a lot will happen in the first half, but the second half of the year should be very strong, thanks to Windows NT and 13th-hour spending on year 2000."
Roger McNamee, a principal in Integral Capital Partners, which specializes in technology stocks, agrees that technology companies could prosper, even in an economic downturn, but he takes a more cautious view. Personal computer technology, he said, "is the likely place people will do triage in terms of capital spending."
"Every company sees technology as their way out of this economy," Mr. McNamee added.
But technology producers will not all benefit equally, Mr. McNamee said. The current market is good for a company like Dell Computer, which is selling ever-greater percentages of higher-end servers, and challenging for Hewlett-Packard, selling more and more low-priced consumer PC's.
"What Intel is telling you is, 'Hey, the world didn't end,' " he said. "But as much as everyone would like to draw broad conclusions, I don't think it's appropriate."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Technology Turn"
The Philadelphia Semiconductor indes has shown signs of recovering after falling almost 40 percent since April. Graph tracks the index since then. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (96%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); MS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (85%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (73%); UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP; ORACLE CORP; NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP INTEL CORP (96%); ORACLE CORP (92%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (85%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (53%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP; ORACLE CORP; NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (73%); UNITED STATES (68%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVENTORIES (71%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M MICHAEL MURPHY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



375 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: With Ford Out, Korean Car Makers Will Battle Over Kia

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Sept. 13

 BODY:
An auction of South Korea's ailing Kia Motors and its truck-making affiliate, Asia Motors, may turn into a pitched domestic battle now that the only foreign contender, the Ford Motor Company, has dropped out.
With Ford out of the bidding, the Hyundai Motor Company, the Daewoo Motor Corporation and Samsung Motors are the only companies left in the running. Bids must be submitted by next Monday, with the winner to be announced on Sept. 28. 
 Analysts said Ford's decision to drop out, announced Friday, would probably press Samsung Motors to make an all-out effort to win the bidding. Without Kia, Samsung may be forced out of business or absorbed by Daewoo Motor or Hyundai Motor as South Korea's major conglomerates seek to consolidate. The current round of bidding is the second after the first attempt failed last month, when bidders demanded a large write-off of Kia debt. Analysts said Samsung had the largest bid the first time.
Kia and Asia Motors are under court receivership, similar to bankruptcy reorganization in the United States, after defaulting on loans last year.
Samsung Motors, a unit of the Samsung Group, is the newest entrant in South Korea's automobile industry. It began producing passenger cars only six months ago.
Analysts said the Kia debt would be a heavy burden for a purchaser to assume during a recession. The Korea Development Bank, the main creditor bank, said on Thursday that the total debt of Kia and Asia Motors was 11.86 trillion won ($8.7 billion).
Creditors of Kia Motors said they would write off part of the debt, and the bank said that with the write-off, debt guarantees and debt rescheduling, the debt load would be cut to four trillion won. But the total cost would still be 7.06 trillion won ($5.2 billion) when paid back with interest, according to the creditors' schedule.
Ford cited the debt burden in withdrawing from the competition.
"Although we still believe that a Ford-Kia alliance was in the interest of both companies, as well as for the nation of Korea, we are unwilling to take control of a company that is saddled with an unreasonably high amount of debt," Ford's vice chairman, Wayne Booker, said in a statement.
"We believe the level of debt that the creditors have specified will make it very difficult, if not impossible, for Kia and Asia Motors to be successful internationally competitive companies," Mr. Booker said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); ASIA (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

COMPANY: KIA MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; HYUNDAI MOTOR CO; DAEWOO MOTOR CO; SAMSUNG MOTORS INC FORD MOTOR CO (96%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); SAMSUNG GROUP (85%); KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: KIA MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; HYUNDAI MOTOR CO; DAEWOO MOTOR CO; SAMSUNG MOTORS INC NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); ASIA (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); 

PERSON: WAYNE BOOKER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



376 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: For Tobacco Growers, a Changing Life

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: CAVE CITY, Ky., Sept. 10

 BODY:
Larry Walden doesn't look or sound very much like a villain.
This afternoon, he stood in his corrugated steel barn near here, just down the road from Mammoth Cave, and tried patiently to explain the economics, the emotions and the politics of growing tobacco, which he has done for a living for the last 30 years, since he was 12 years old. 
 Above his head, stalks of ocher-colored tobacco, drying in the late-summer breeze, hung from laths, sticks to those in the trade. The air inside was as opulently perfumed as a fine Havana cigar.
"We may be headed for nowhere," Mr. Walden said. "I think the price supports for tobacco may be finished in a year or two, and if that happens, these little towns around here will just dry up and blow away. I don't know what I'd do, but I know there's no other crop that would bring me as much income."
Mr. Walden is the biggest tobacco grower, he thinks, in Barren County, which produces more tobacco than any other county in the state. But he is no tycoon, and neither are many of the other Kentucky growers, most of whom produce flavor- and nicotine-rich burley tobacco. The state, second in annual production to North Carolina, has more tobacco-dependent counties than any other, with 60,000 farmers averaging an income from tobacco of about $12,000 a year.
A trim, bearded, laconic man in Cat hat and aviator glasses, Mr. Walden clutched a beer, encased in an insulating cylinder called a "hugger," as he talked to a visitor.
He conceded that he himself no longer smoked or chewed tobacco. His wife, he said, had told him, "If you stop, it might help your health." But that, he insisted, had nothing to do with his decision to give up.
"I made up my own mind to quit," Mr. Walden said rather defensively, like a man determined to defend his picture of himself as a rugged individualist.
For all the research projects and all the antismoking publicity in the last decade or so, he said he was still not convinced that smoking is harmful to health. His father, he said, smokes three or four packs of cigarettes a day. When his father had open heart surgery not long ago, in his 70's, the surgeon said that half his patients smoked and half did not, Mr. Walden reported.
Alice Baesler, the Kentucky Department of Agriculture's tobacco expert, said that most growers, like Mr. Walden, had grown up in the business. Families, she said, "have existed for this for generations, with tobacco at the center of their lives, so much so that in the fall, they are drawn to the fields at harvest time, whatever and wherever their everyday jobs may be."
It is undeniably a beautiful crop, with the broad leaves turning green-gold in the fields before the stalks are cut, mounted six to a stick and hung in old red barns, many of them covered with wild morning glories, with loose boards to let the air through.
It is undeniably a profitable crop. Mrs. Baesler, whose husband, Scotty, a Democrat, represents the Lexington area in the House of Representatives, said that an acre of tobacco produced a gross income of about $4,000 in good years, while corn or soybeans produced no more than $500. "Nothing else, except marijuana, brings in the kind of money that tobacco does in Tennessee, Kentucky and the Carolinas," Mr. Walden said. "Flat nothing."
Mr. Baesler is running for the Senate this fall against Representative Jim Bunning, the Hall of Fame pitcher nominated by the Republicans.
Over the years, everything from green peppers to wheat has been proposed as a supplemental or replacement crop for tobacco, without much success. In July, the University of Kentucky's Center for Business and Economic Research said that cultivating and processing hemp, a cousin of marijuana that can be used in paper products and textiles, could produce $17.6 million a year in worker income, less than tobacco but a lot more than most other products. But growing hemp remains illegal.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Baesler are loudly critical of President Clinton's tobacco policies, particularly his first-term proposal to finance health-care reform with a tobacco tax. Most Kentucky politicians feel that way. Representative Ron Lewis, a Republican whose district includes Larry Walden's farm, attended a 1994 smokers' rights rally where Hillary Rodham Clinton was burned in effigy. It was an "inappropriate" act, he said, a "desperate" bid to draw attention to a righteous cause.
Mr. Walden said he resented Mr. Clinton as well as former President Ronald Reagan, whom he blamed for driving Government-supported prices down so far that only now, 18 years later, were tobacco revenues returning to their former levels.
But his deepest scorn was reserved for the four big cigarette companies, whom he accused of profiteering and price manipulation. It is they, Mr. Walden said, "who give the farmer a real licking, year in and year out."
He will produce 175,000 pounds of tobacco this year, using Government quotas (the acreage the Government allows a farmer to use to grow tobacco and it can bought, sold or leased) for his own land as well as the quotas of other landowners who do not grow tobacco, which he leases. It is hard, manual work, from the time the seedlings are transplanted through the summer harvest and until the leaves are finally stripped from the stalks at a rotating table, after they have dried in the barns for eight weeks.
Sometimes, Mr. Walden is optimistic. He sees how much revenue tobacco produces for the Government in taxes, and how many sporting events it supports, and concludes that "they'll never put the growers out of business." Other times, he thinks the game is up and wonders about expanding his dairy herd.
"It never occurs to me," he said, "that I'm doing anything wrong. Nobody forces people to smoke cigarettes. It's their choice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry Walden, on his farm near Cave City, Ky., said he expected price supports for tobacco to end. (Michael Morse for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY; UNITED STATES (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HAVANA, CUBA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES TOBACCO FARMING (92%); SMOKING (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (88%); AGRICULTURE (88%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (77%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (77%); TOBACCO GRADING & CURING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; WALDEN, LARRY LARRY WALDEN (96%); ALICE BAESLER (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



377 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Clinton to Try Putting the Focus on the Global Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13

 BODY:
President Clinton on Monday will spell out on a six-pronged approach for a coordinated international response to the financial crisis spreading around the globe, in his first major effort to turn the country's attention back to policy since the publication of the Starr report on Friday.
Mr. Clinton's aides insisted today that his speech at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York was scheduled long before the White House knew that Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel, was to deliver a report to Congress making a case for the President's impeachment. 
 In his speech, Mr. Clinton will endorse using the International Monetary Fund's "spare fuel tank" -- an emergency cache that is now down to $15 billion -- to choke off the crisis, probably beginning with loans to Latin America. He will also call for all leading economies to worry less about inflation and more about restarting stalled economies around the globe.
"The balance of risks has shifted," a draft of Mr. Clinton's speech says. "The industrial world's chief priority must be to spur growth." That message seems to be aimed at Japan in particular.
Taking a central public role now in fighting the financial crisis is a complex dance for Mr. Clinton. It is bound to raise questions about why the President, who by all accounts has been heavily involved in strategy sessions concerning Asia and Russia, is only now talking publicly about major initiatives, 14 months into the crisis and in the middle of the biggest threat his Presidency has faced.
Moreover, in recent days some of his own aides, along with global investors and senior officials among America's allies, have wondered aloud whether he still has the moral authority to organize a global response to a complex contagion.
Some say he should have taken a more public role in putting together support for Russia last month, in the days before it devalued its currency and announced a virtual default on its debts -- though it is unclear that even action by the President of the United States could have stopped the worldwide run on the Russian ruble.
"His speech tomorrow will be useful," said David Hale, the chief economist for the Zurich Group, a financial-services company, "but because of the diminishment of his own standing it would have been even better six months ago."
The concern is that in the coming months Mr. Clinton will be so distracted by the debate over possible impeachment that he will be powerless to push through an increase in Washington's contribution to the I.M.F., or to marshal initiatives by the Group of Seven, nations with the world's largest economies.
At the same time, Mr. Clinton's aides argue that the spread of the crisis to Brazil last week, along with the imminent threat to all of Latin America and, more distantly, the United States, gives Mr. Clinton an opportunity to cast himself as the world leader spearheading a battle against global recession, rather than a hobbled President looking for a way to survive in office.
The Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, urged Mr. Clinton to assume that role more directly in an emotional session he held with his cabinet on Thursday night. After agreeing that Mr. Clinton had made "a terrible mistake" in his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky, Mr. Rubin, by his own account, urged the President to take a leading role in quelling the financial crisis, saying that "the most important thing now is the world economy."
"We are in a very, very scary time," said one leading foreign official, who has been deeply involved in the succession of bailouts in Asia and Russia and in the recent panic over Latin America. "Clearly, the prospect of a weak American leader only adds to the impetus around the world to sell."
In short, the United States has moved from a rock of stability in the global crisis -- the world's strongest economy and the muscle behind the International Monetary Fund -- to another potential source of uncertainty. That impression was fueled in markets around the world late last week when, just as the Starr report was being released, a House panel declined to approve $18 billion more for the fund. Other countries will not increase their contributions until Washington goes first.
The move by Republican leaders who have long been suspicious of the I.M.F., even before its remedies for international crisis became the subject of wide criticism, brought a harsh response from Stanley Fischer, the No. 2 official at the fund.
"There are decisions of enormous importance being made now about the role that the United States plans to take in the global economic system it created in 1945," Mr. Fischer said. "It's no small thing to decide to abandon that system."
Curiously, while Mr. Clinton has often called for Congress to support the I.M.F., he has made only a handful of telephone calls about the issue to members of Congress. That is a sharp contrast to his marathon effort last year, which ultimately proved unsuccessful, to press every member on trade legislation that would have given American negotiators more authority to strike deals that Congress would not reopen later.
The Administration says that the timing has not been right for the President to get personally involved in such lobbying. But it is difficult to see how he could ask members of Congress to cast a politically unpopular vote now, while he desperately needs their support either to quash an impeachment inquiry or to strike a deal that would submit him to only a censure.
The International Monetary Fund, meanwhile, declared on Friday that it was down to its last $5 billion to $9 billion in ordinary funds to fight the economic turmoil -- a signal to the markets that it is in no shape to be a lender of last resort for much longer. A bailout of Brazil, if one is needed, would probably require tens of billions of dollars.
So in his speech on Monday, Administration officials say, Mr. Clinton will endorse dipping into a backup fund, the General Agreement to Borrow. That fund has about $15 billion left after it was used, unsuccessfully, to aid Russia in July.
Russia was sent $4.8 billion at the time, but future payments have been halted during the political turmoil that has brought to power a new economic team that seems likely to shift away from the unpopular market reforms that are a condition of the loans.
In his speech, Mr. Clinton will also call for countries around the world, especially Japan, to act decisively to write off hundreds of billions of dollars of bad debts that are sinking their banking systems, and leading to a credit crunch around the world. But it is unclear if he will directly say that they should use taxpayer dollars to do so.
He will also call for a meeting of the finance ministers of the Group of Seven and emerging markets, probably next month in Washington, to take stock of broader efforts to improve the international finance system in the midst of its greatest threat in decades.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); IMPEACHMENT (79%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); FOREIGN LENDING (69%); CURRENCIES (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



378 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE COMMITTEE;
Sharp Divisions on Judiciary Panel

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13

 BODY:
The name falls from their lips with uncharacteristic reverence, like ballplayers conjuring up Joe DiMaggio in Yankee Stadium.
"Rodino -- he did an extraordinary job," said Sheila Jackson-Lee, a Texas Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, mentioning the subdued, even-handed chairman of the committee during Watergate. "He will be my role model." 
 Then Ms. Jackson-Lee, who is known for lengthy attacks on Republicans and their policies, added, "I will not venture into the muddy waters of partisanship."
Conventional wisdom, and recent history, seem to indicate otherwise. Of all the House committees, the Judiciary Committee is known as the most polarized and ideologically split on Capitol Hill. Peter W. Rodino Jr. may have had a core of 10 moderates to depend on to steer his course, but the current chairman, Representative Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, can count his on one hand.
The polarization is no coincidence.
As Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, an Upper West Side liberal said, the committee's agenda attracts extremes.
"It's a very bifurcated committee," Mr. Nadler said. "You get people who are interested in abortion and civil rights and due process. They tend not to be the moderates."
The committee regularly grapples with an assortment of divisive issues, including affirmative action, tort overhaul, crime, terrorism and same-sex marriages. Though the debates are usually civil, party-line votes are the norm among the 21 Republicans and 16 Democrats; bipartisanship is the exception. What's more, the panel is stocked with both the President's harshest critics and his most unswerving supporters.
There is Representative Bob Barr, a Georgia Republican, who asserts that Mr. Clinton has so debased the the Presidency that last year, even before Monica S. Lewinsky became news, he filed a resolution to impeach him.
Mr. Barr also introduced a bill to prohibit the Federal Government from recognizing same-sex marriages. The Georgia Congressman, who has been divorced twice, said at the time, "The flames of hedonism, the flames of narcissism, the flames of self-centered morality are licking at the very foundation of our society: the family unit."
Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the committee's senior Democrat and the only its only Watergate veteran, has been almost as severe a critic of Kenneth W. Starr as Mr. Barr is of Mr. Clinton.
Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the second-ranking Democrat on the committee, is a nimble debater who quick with a quip and prone to impatience for what he considers poor displays of intellect. Mr. Frank, who is expected to play a forceful role in the proceedings, is also the brother of Ann F. Lewis, the White House communications director.
Another much-talked-about figure on the committee is Representative Howard Berman, a California Democrat who is considered a formidable legal presence by his peers on the committee. Reserved and politically astute, Mr. Berman has forged a close relationship with Mr. Hyde, the committee chairman.
On the other side of the aisle, two bookish Florida Republicans loom as central players: Representative Bill McCollum, who has said perjury will constitute an impeachable offense, and Representative Charles T. Canady, a constitutional expert who heads the subcommittee that has proposed more Constitutional amendments than anyone since James Madison.
Republicans, eager to quell criticism about the panel's membership, recently appointed their first woman, Representative Mary Bono of California, who won the seat held by her late husband, Sonny. The Republican wing also includes several former judges and Federal prosecutors, who are likely to step back into those roles in any hearings.
Representative Asa Hutchinson, a Republican who expressed "shock" at the Starr report but urged his colleagues to be cautious about not prejudging the President, was once a United States Attorney in Arkansas. And Representative Ed Bryant, another Republican, was United States Attorney in Tennessee.
Despite the credentials on both sides -- only three members did not go to law school -- there is little question that the Democrats on the committee are considerably flashier and more experienced in the political arena than their Republican counterparts. The committee's Republicans, while no less zealous in their views, are largely a little less quick on their feet, a little more lawyerly in their demeanor.
Having so many lawyers in one room is both fortunate and unfortunate. "Lawyers tend to be more contentious and argumentative, and that can show up," said Mr. Canady, the Florida Republican. "But our legal background will be helpful in making a judgment."
Both sides have hired experienced chief counsels accustomed to gritty battlegrounds of a separate sort. David P. Schippers, the Republican counsel, is a lifelong Chicago Democrat who put the mobster Sam Giancana in prison. On the Democratic side is Abbe D. Lowell, a Washington insider who has defended a roster of scandal-tainted clients, including former Speaker Jim Wright.
Despite their ideological gulf, committee members bristle at the idea that they cannot set aside their differences and behave judiciously and thoughtfully, just as the committee did during Watergate.
"There aren't going to be any food fights," Mr. Frank said.
Indeed, the gravity of the situation appears to be sinking in.
"All members feel their constitutional obligation," said Mr. Hyde, who is considered fair-minded and gentlemanly and who is expected to set the tone of the proceedings along with Mr. Conyers, despite the Democrat's antipathy for Mr. Starr.
"This is not a matter we will relish doing," Mr. Hyde added.
Even such conservative firebrands as Representative Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who last year helped lead an effort to oust Newt Gingrich as Speaker for not being conservative enough, are dutifully composing themselves for the task.
"I'm going to speak out against any Republican who turns this into 'Let me tell you why I don't like Bill Clinton,' " Mr. Graham said. "I do that every day. But I'm playing a role here that is big-time serious. The worst thing that can happen is for an election to be overturned without a heck of a good reason."
The fact that most of the members on the panel are not facing tough re-election battles this November should help keep those partisan flare-ups in check.
"The American people are watching us closely" Mr. Canady of Florida said.
Democrats, too, say they want bipartisanship to rule. But a few have already complained of an inauspicious beginning. Some Democrats brimmed with outrage when the House voted on Friday to approve the public release of Mr. Starr's report without first giving the President a chance to inspect it, as Democrats wanted.
Representative Melvin Watt, a North Carolina Democrat on the committee, criticized the action as unfair and tinged with political motives.
"This one looks like it's going to get into a real war," Mr. Watt said, referring to a possible impeachment inquiry.
Mr. Hutchinson, the Arkansas Republican, acknowledges that there is not much of a precedent for bipartisanship on the committee. "But," he said, "hope springs eternal."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE"
 
REPUBLICAN MEMBERS
 
Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, 74, chairman
One of the few Republicans newly elected in the post-Watergate election of 1974. In Congress he has played a starring role in promoting the causes of his party, defending the Reagan Administration during the Iran-contra affair and pushing the Contract with America, the 1994 campaign manifesto. But Mr. Hyde can be fiercely independent and has rankled Republican leadership by opposing term limits for Congress Until now, he may be best known for the 1978 amendment that prohibits Federal financing for abortions for poor women. A lawyer, Mr. Hyde is widely respected for his legal knowledge, his devotion to the Constitution and his oratorical skills.
 
David P. Schippers, 68, chief investigative counsel
A lifelong Chicago Democrat, Mr. Schippers served for a number of years as an assistant United States attorney for Northern Illinois and in the late 1960's was chief of the Justice Department's organized-crime and racketeering section in Chicago. He and Mr. Hyde have known each other since they served together on a panel investigating judicial corruption and other crime issues in Illinois nearly 30 years ago. As a private lawyer, Mr. Schippers has represented white-collar defendants and high-profile defense cases.
 
F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., 55, Wisconsin, first elected in 1978
Bill McCollum, 54, Florida, 1980
George W. Gekas, 68, Pennsylvania, 1982
Howard Coble, 67, North Carolina, 1984
Lamar S. Smith, 50, Texas, 1986
Elton Gallegly, 54, California, 1986
Charles T. Canady, 44, Florida, 1992
Bob Inglis, 38, South Carolina, 1992
Robert W. Goodlatte, 45, Virginia, 1992
Steve Buyer, 39, Indiana, 1992
Ed Bryant, 50, Tennessee, 1994
Steve Chabot, 45, Ohio, 1994
Bob Barr, 49, Georgia, 1994
William L. Jenkins, 61, Tennessee, 1996
Asa Hutchinson, 47, Arkansas, 1996
Ed Pease, 47, Indiana, 1996
Christopher B. Cannon, 47, Utah, 1996
James E. Rogan, 41, California, 1996
Lindsey Graham, 43, South Carolina, 1994
Mary Bono, 36, California, 1998
 
DEMOCRATIC MEMBERS
 
John Conyers, Jr. of Michigan, 69, ranking minority member
Mr. Conyers, a lawyer, is also the only member of the committee to have served on it during Watergate. Elected to Congress in 1964, he has built a reputation as a dependable Democrat who will fight harder than most for liberal causes, particularly those that directly affect the economically distressed areas of his Congressional district, which includes Detroit. He broke with the Clinton Administration on overhauling welfare and opposed the death penalty provisions in the 1994 crime bill.
 
Abbe D. Lowell, 46, lead counsel for the minority
Mr. Lowell, originally from New York, served as a special assistant to Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti in the Carter Administration. Mr. Lowell's law firm specializes in government ethics law and in defending politicians and business executives. He has helped defend Democrats and Republicans alike including former Speaker Jim Wright, a Democrat, and Representative Joseph M. McDade, a Republican.
 
Barney Frank, 58, Massachusetts, 1980
Charles E. Schumer, 47, New Yor, 1980
Howard L. Berman, 57, California, 1982
Rick Boucher, 52, Virginia, 1982
Jerrold Nadler, 51, New York, 1992
Robert C. Scott, 51, Virginia, 1992
Melvin Watt, 53, North Carolina, 1992
Zoe Lofgren, 50, California, 1994
Sheila Jackson-Lee, 48, California, 1994
Maxine Waters, 60, California, 1990
Martin T. Meehan, 41, California, 1992
William D. Delahunt, 57, Massachusetts, 1996
Robert Wexler, 37, Florida, 1996
Steven R. Rothman, 45, New Jersey, 1996
Thomas M. Barrett, 44, Wisconsin, 1992
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY FLORIDA REPUBLICAN (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; IMPEACHMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); DUE PROCESS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ETHICS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); FAMILY (73%); TERRORISM (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); MARRIAGE (70%); LITIGATION (70%); POLITICS (69%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); LEGAL SERVICES (60%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W; ALVAREZ, LIZETTE SHEILA JACKSON-LEE (90%); JERROLD NADLER (88%); BOB INGLIS (79%); WILLIAM D DELAHUNT (79%); BOB GOODLATTE (79%); ROBERT WEXLER (79%); F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR (79%); HOWARD COBLE (79%); JOHN CONYERS (77%); BARNEY FRANK (77%); HOWARD L BERMAN (77%); ROBERT C SCOTT (77%); STEVEN R ROTHMAN (77%); JAMES F WRIGHT (76%); STEVE BUYER (72%); CHARLES SCHUMER (72%); MAXINE WATERS (72%); LAMAR SMITH (57%); STEVE CHABOT (57%); RICK BOUCHER (57%); MARY BONO MACK (57%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (57%); CHRIS CANNON (57%); MELVIN L WATT (57%); ELTON GALLEGLY (57%); ZOE LOFGREN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



379 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE VIEW ABROAD;
World's Press Reflects Itself In Coverage of Clinton Affair

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
With a mixture of solemnity, worry and sometimes sheer glee at the crisis facing President Clinton, newspapers around the world continue to be dominated by news of how an official report about allegations of sex and lies has threatened to topple the most powerful man in the world.
Several news organizations posted the entire document on their Web sites and editorial writers from Munich to Hong Kong ruminated about its impact on the global economy. 
 The coverage worldwide revealed as much about each country's relationship with the United States as it did about its own press traditions and sexual mores.
In China, where Mr. Clinton is popular with the Government and the people, newspapers offered unadorned reportage, with none of the lurid narratives or fist-pounding editorials to be found elsewhere.
Yesterday The People's Daily, the principal Communist Party newspaper, published a short article on page two, with a headline that read, "U.S. Congress Publishes Starr's Report, White House Legal Advisers Rebut on Just Grounds."
The article reported the number of pages in the Starr report and listed the 11 allegedly impeachable offenses, but included no descriptions of sexual encounters. In fact, the paper offered more space to the White House rebuttal.
"President Clinton has admitted his mistake and apologized on many occasions in the past few days," the article concluded, "and in the meantime, he has instructed his lawyers to make an effort to defend him."
In Iran, where sex is not a matter of public discourse, the major newspapers did not editorialize about Mr. Clinton's alleged efforts to cover up an affair. Most reports politely referred to Mr. Clinton's "relationship with the White House intern," although one newspaper, Kayan, broke ranks with a story charging that "the report on Clinton's moral case shocked Americans."
In India, newspapers were not the least bit reluctant to print the sensational minutiae of the report by the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr -- "Clinton adrift in a sea of smut," screamed a headline in The Indian Express -- and some leading opinion makers there seemed eager to see him leave office. The Pioneer, a New Delhi-based paper that has vociferously defended India's explosion of nuclear devices, wrote in an editorial yesterday that few would shed tears over the departure of a President whose Administration had "acted like an outraged bully over the nuclear tests in Pokhran in May."
Indeed, most newspapers depicted the leader of the world's most powerful nation as a man reduced by his own hubris. "By his monumental effort to hide the truth and subvert evidence," declared The Hindu, in its lead editorial on Saturday, "Mr. Clinton lost the trust of his people, lost his own moral authority to rule."
In Mexico City, news of the Starr report led five of the most important papers in Saturday editions, with several describing an encounter between Mr. Clinton and Monica S. Lewinsky on the night before his dinner meeting with Mexico's President, Ernesto Zedillo.
"Zedillo one of several world leaders present during the sexual adventures," read one headline in La Jornada, a leading leftist daily there.
If foreign media organizations lampooned Mr. Clinton's fate, they also poked fun at what they regarded as the prudishness of the American public. In Germany, for instance, ordinary people and professional pundits found themselves flummoxed by the prospect that the leader of the world's most powerful country might be forced out of office because of sexual improprieties.
"It is harder to say which is more grotesque," pondered the Stuttgarter Zeitung in an editorial. "Clinton's dumb attempts to free himself from his liaison and his lies, or the venomous investigation of Special Prosecutor Starr, a fevered hunt in the name of hypocritical morals."
All weekend long, the Starr report dominated the front page of every German newspaper and television talk show. Welt am Sonntag, a national publication, devoted two pages for a German translation of the report.
The Hong Kong editorial pages generally focused on whether the investigation by Mr. Starr would affect the fragile financial markets around the world, while in Cambodia and Indonesia, opinion makers lamented the fact that the White House scandal had overshadowed their own more pressing political crises.
In Israel, news of Mr. Clinton's troubles already overshadowed what would have been lead reports on the killing of two Hamas fugitives by Israeli troops this weekend. Newspapers published lengthy excerpts from the Starr report, and one Internet company provided a Hebrew translation of the entire report on line.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (71%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (71%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); SEX SCANDALS (77%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ETHICS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); LAWYERS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; SENGUPTA, SOMINI; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



380 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE EXCERPTS;
A Sampling of Viewpoints From Nation's Newspapers

 BODY:

Charlotte Observer
Saturday, Sept. 12
The nation is not endangered by having Bill Clinton in the White House. Our economy is not collapsing, we're not under attack, there's no threat of a coup. Surely the worst that can be said of him has been said. He continues to exercise the powers of office, and did so rather well in Ireland and Russia. There is ample time for Congress to consider Mr. Starr's report and to receive a detailed reply from Mr. Clinton, then decide what course to pursue. 
 Removal of a President from office, by the impeachment process or by forced resignation, is a grave action. The notion that presidents should be removed or resign because of public outrage or unpopularity is foreign to our system.
 
Atlanta Journal-Constitution
Saturday, Sept. 12
A President more concerned with the national interest than his own self-preservation would realize that resignation is his only responsible option.
Sadly, Bill Clinton has shown himself incapable of such sacrifice. He is a complex man with many attractive qualities, but in the end his character has been defined by his crass selfishness. It is that trait -- perjury and adultery are merely its symptoms -- that has rendered him unfit to continue as President.
 
Boston Herald
Saturday, Sept. 12
During ordinary times, in an ordinary election year, Congress would recess in early October, and that has been the plan this year. But this is no ordinary time. This report cannot and must not be allowed to fester away at the conscience of a nation. It must be dealt with promptly and thoroughly until there is a resolution of the issues now before Congress.
 
Philadelphia Inquirer
Saturday, Sept. 12
Bill Clinton should resign. He should resign because his repeated, reckless deceits have dishonored his Presidency beyond repair. He should resign because the impeachment anguish that his lies have invited will paralyze his Administration at a time when an anxious world looks to the White House for sure-footed leadership.
He should resign because, if he does not, his once-glittering agenda of centrist change faces a devastating setback in November's Congressional elections. And those results will reflect not the view of the American majority of the issues -- they are with him there -- but only a weary, tragic turning away from a politics turned sordid.
 
Washington Post
Sunday, Sept. 13
The question that Congress now faces is whether the President's public conduct warrants impeachment and removal. It is not an easy question, and it goes to the heart of what does and does not constitute "high crimes and misdemeanors. On the one hand, the crimes alleged are serious ones and the evidence on some is quite strong; on the other hand, this misconduct took place in the context of a subsequently dismissed civil case and would probably not, in other circumstances, have been deemed worthy of investigation or prosecution. Mr. Clinton's behavior is at the margins of impeachability -- straddling the line that separates disqualifying crimes from conduct that merely mars indelibly the Presidential office and the man who holds it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON HERALD; ATLANTA JOURNAL; PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER; CHARLOTTE OBSERVER (NEWSPAPER); WASHINGTON POST ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (56%); BOSTON HERALD (55%); WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON HERALD; ATLANTA JOURNAL; PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER; CHARLOTTE OBSERVER (NEWSPAPER); WASHINGTON POST WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ETHICS (68%); MISDEMEANORS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



381 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 9153 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT:;
10 Days in the White House: Public Acts, Private Moments

BYLINE: BY ROBERT D. MCFADDEN, JOHN KIFNER AND N. R. KLEINFIELD.; The following article was reported and written by Robert D. McFadden, John Kifner and N. R. Kleinfield.

 BODY:
For Bill Clinton, as for all Presidents, the White House has been a stage, the symbol of national power and executive authority, its stately rooms reflecting America's noblest aspirations. In the Oval Office, he has met foreign leaders like Boris Yeltsin and Yitzhak Rabin and pondered domestic issues like health care and welfare. He has also used the elegant setting for less lofty purposes, as a political platform and as a place to charm the rich and powerful for campaign contributions or votes. 
 But backstage, in rooms just off the Oval Office, his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky unfolded, in moments stolen between the bill signings, the state dinners and meetings with Government officials and foreign dignitaries.
On 10 days between Nov. 15, 1995, and March 29, 1997 -- 10 days reconstructed in this article -- he wove into his schedule a series of sexual rendezvous with Ms. Lewinsky, according to Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel.
While the Starr report did not tote up the precise amount of time the President and Ms. Lewinsky spent together, their encounters apparently occupied less than 10 hours over 16 months, although Ms. Lewinsky's life appears to have been dominated by her obsession with the President.
The encounters began, by Mr. Starr's account, in the course of the nation's business: eye contact at ceremonial functions, a flirtatious exchange or two, then a meeting one night when the White House staff was cut by a shutdown of the Federal Government in a budget impasse, and interns were brought in to help.
The first sexual encounter took place late in a day in which Mr. Clinton signed a "Family Week" proclamation and an appropriations bill, conferred with aides on negotiations to end the war in Bosnia and tried to cope with the Government shutdown. He saw Ms. Lewinsky working alone in an aide's office, invited her into the Oval Office and began with a kiss.
Later on, the encounters were less happenstance, increasingly orchestrated, the Starr report says. In an often blunt narrative intended as an argument for Congress to impeach the President, the report offers passages of seamy details and subterfuges that read like pulp fiction.
The cast of Secret Service agents, secretaries and assistants who protect and serve the President in his official role were clearly aware of the backstage activities, according to the Starr report, but in many cases chose to avert their eyes.
Several encounters were interrupted by phone calls, and once by the entrance of an aide, Harold Ickes, which sent Ms. Lewinsky into a panicky flight out a rear door, the report says. Toward the end of their relationship, it says, Ms. Lewinsky pleaded repeatedly to see Mr. Clinton, but was rebuffed. Finally they met again, but the report says the President had no time for sex: He had to rush off for a state dinner with President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico.
 
Nov. 15 1995
It was not a routine Wednesday for Mr. Clinton because a budget impasse with Congress had shut down the Federal Government, and 800,000 Federal workers were staying home for a second day, including over 80 percent of the White House staff.
The President had no public events scheduled, and he did not leave the White House. But he had meetings with aides, as well as with three Senators and a group of farmers. He had an appropriations bill and several proclamations to sign and an interview with a television network.
And there were major foreign problems on his mind. In Dayton, Ohio, negotiations to end the Bosnian war were at a critical stage. The President was grappling with another problem: whether to go through with a long-planned trip to Tokyo the coming weekend for a pan-Asian economic conference.
For days, his aides had debated the pros and cons of the trip, which was intended to ease rising tensions over economic issues. Foreign policy advisers argued he should go and not risk new tensions with Japan, or appear to be held hostage by Congressional Republicans over the budget. But domestic advisers had warned him of Congressional mischief in his absence.
Mr. Clinton early in the day decided to send Vice President Al Gore instead. His announcement would say he could not be away from Washington at such a delicate time. But sensitive to Japanese feelings, he delayed the public announcement until evening -- morning in Tokyo -- so he could first inform Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama personally in a telephone call.
Dealing with the budget, Mr. Clinton spoke to Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, who averted a national default by borrowing $61 billion from two civil service retirement funds to cover interest payments on the national debt and other bills, including Social Security payments.
In an interview with the CBS anchor Dan Rather, Mr. Clinton struck a defiant note against the Republicans, saying he would not give in to their "huge cuts in Medicare, Medicaid, education, the environment."
Mr. Clinton signed three proclamations, for National Family Week, National Farm-City Week and National Great American Smokeout Day, which was the next day.
The Family Week proclamation cited a "shared commitment to the importance of family life," in which Americans "first learn important lessons about responsibility." He called for greater efforts to prevent substance abuse, domestic violence and teen-age pregnancy.
The White House was unusually quiet throughout the day because the Federal shutdown had furloughed all but essential employees. As a result, the White House staff of 430 had shrunk to 90. Moreover, some were White House interns, who could continue working because they were not paid. Many, including Ms. Lewinsky, who ordinarily worked in the Old Executive Office Building, near the White House, took on a wide range of added duties that brought them into the White House.
Ms. Lewinsky, who had begun her internship in July 1995, testified before the grand jury that, after about a month, she began making eye contact with the President at White House functions, and both began what she characterized as "intense flirting."
At departure ceremonies and other events, she recalled, she shook Mr. Clinton's hand and introduced herself. Later, when she ran into the President in the White House West Wing, she introduced herself again and, she testified, he responded that he already knew who she was.
While Ms. Lewinsky's regular job was to work on correspondence in the office of the Chief of Staff, Leon E. Panetta, in the Old Executive Office Building, she was assigned during the one-week Federal shutdown to answer phones and run errands in Mr. Panetta's office in the West Wing.
On this day, as on other days during the Federal shutdown, Mr. Clinton went frequently to Mr. Panetta's office, and sometimes talked with Ms. Lewinsky.
At 1:30 P.M., according to the White House logs, Ms. Lewinsky entered the White House. The logs do not show the time of her departure that afternoon, and the Starr report does not say whether Ms. Lewinsky and Mr. Clinton encountered each other in the early afternoon.
At about 3:15 P.M., Mr. Clinton met with the Senate minority leader, Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, and Senators Byron L. Dorgan and Kent Conrad, both Democrats of North Dakota, and six Dakota farmers. The President told them he would fight steep cuts in farm subsidies that were being advanced by Republicans.
At 5:07 P.M., according to logs cited by the Starr report, Ms. Lewinsky re-entered the White House and resumed work; her departure from the White House was logged at 12:18 A.M. During virtually the same time frame -- 5:01 P.M. to 12:35 A.M., Mr. Clinton was in the Oval Office or in Mr. Panetta's office, the report said.
That evening, the report said, the President and Ms. Lewinsky "made eye contact" when he went to Mr. Panetta's office, and again later at an informal birthday party for Jennifer Palmieri, a special assistant to Mr. Panetta. At one point, they were alone in the office and, according to the report, "in the course of flirting with him, she raised her jacket in the back and showed him the straps of her thong underwear."
Sometime before 8 P.M., when the White House spokesman announced that the President had canceled his trip to Japan, Mr. Clinton spent 20 minutes on the phone with Prime Minister Murayama in Tokyo.
At about 8 P.M., as Ms. Lewinsky walked to a restroom, she passed the office of a Presidential adviser, George Stephanopoulos, the Starr report said. "The President was inside alone, and he beckoned her to enter," it went on. "She told him that she had a crush on him. He laughed, then asked if she would like to see his private office."
He led her through a connecting door into the President's private dining room and toward his private study off the Oval Office. Ms. Lewinsky testified: "We talked briefly and sort of acknowledged that there had been a chemistry that was there before and that we were both attracted to each other, and then he asked me if he could kiss me."
In the windowless hallway adjacent to the study, they kissed, the report said, and before returning to her desk she gave the President her name and telephone number.
That evening, Mr. Clinton signed a $36.9 billion appropriations bill to provide money for the Department of Transportation and related agencies for the fiscal year that had begun on Oct. 1. The sum was only $1.4 billion less than the Clinton Administration had sought from Congress, and the White House expressed hearty satisfaction with the outcome of the bipartisan bill.
The Starr report quoted Ms. Lewinsky as saying she was alone in Mr. Panetta's office at about 10 P.M. when the President walked in. He invited her to rendezvous again in Mr. Stephanopoulos's office in a few minutes and she agreed, the report said.
They again returned to the private study and "this time the lights in the study were off," the report said. After a kiss, it said, a sexual encounter ensued. Because the study had uncovered windows, it took place, as did others later, in the windowless hallway adjacent to the study, the report said.
During the encounter, the telephone rang; the President answered it in the study, and while the sexual encounter continued there, he talked with a person Ms. Lewinsky took to be a member of Congress, the report said.
White House records show Mr. Clinton talked to Democratic Representatives Jim Chapman Jr. of Texas from 9:25 P.M. to 9:30 P.M., and John Tanner of Tennessee from 9:31 P.M. to 9:35 P.M., but no mention of a call after 10 P.M. was made. Before and after the sexual episode, the report said, Ms. Lewinsky and Mr. Clinton talked.
"At one point during the conversation," the report said, "the President tugged on the pink intern pass hanging from her neck and said that it might be a problem. Ms. Lewinsky thought that he was talking about access -- interns were not supposed to be in the West Wing without an escort -- and, in addition, that he might have discerned some 'impropriety' in a sexual relationship with a White House intern."
The duration of the conversation was unclear from the report, which noted only that Ms. Lewinsky left the White House after midnight, and the President was logged out of the Oval Office a short time later.
 
Nov. 17, 1995
The biggest Government shutdown in history was in its fourth day as the sharply diminished White House staff tried to cope with the heavy flow of Presidential pronouncements, correspondence, meetings, interviews and other activities.
Trying to get the Federal behemoth moving again, Mr. Clinton, as his first task of the morning, sent Congress a stopgap financing bill to get 800,000 Federal employees back to work, but he gave no ground in the budget impasse, warning that he would veto the Republicans' latest spending plan.
Mr. Panetta shuttled about Capitol Hill, seeking a deal, but the Republicans, led by House Speaker Newt Gingrich, refused to compromise on their plans for huge budget cuts, tax cuts and a balanced budget in seven years.
Gathering all the support he could muster, the President met at the White House with a delegation from the Leadership Council of Aging Organizations, representing 41 consumer, research and trade groups. They urged him to veto any bill that would cut money for older Americans.
Mr. Clinton also had a 15-minute Oval Office meeting with Alaska's Democratic Governor, Tony Knowles, who tried without success to persuade the President that oil drilling would have no long-term ill effects in an Arctic wildlife refuge in his state.
The President also acted on several foreign-affairs matters. He rebuked Congress over a Republican-sponsored bill to bar spending to deploy troops to Bosnia, saying it could torpedo the peace talks in Ohio. In a lengthy telephone call, he talked with President Nelson Mandela of South Africa about a multilateral response to Nigeria's hanging of nine human rights advocates, including Ken Saro-Wiwa, the writer.
And in an Oval Office interview with Japanese journalists, Mr. Clinton said he would reschedule his state visit to Japan but was vague about the timing. "I will come as soon as I can," he said. "This is very, very important to me. I hope the Japanese people will understand this is no expression of disrespect by me, either to the Government or the people of Japan."
He also said the United States' military commitment to Japan (47,000 troops) and the Asia-Pacific rim (100,000 troops) would not be diminished, despite calls for reductions in the wake of the rape of a Japanese girl in Okinawa, in which three American servicemen had been accused.
On this Friday night, two days after what Ms. Lewinsky said had been their first sexual encounter, both Mr. Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky worked late. White House logs show she checked out at 8:56 P.M. but returned at 9:38 P.M. for a little over an hour, according to Mr. Starr's report. She was still working in Mr. Panetta's West Wing office.
The report said that at 9:45 P.M., Mr. Clinton stepped into Mr. Panetta's office for one minute, then returned to the Oval Office. Because they were working late, Betty Currie, the President's personal secretary, and other staff members had sent out for pizza.
"I went down to let them know that the pizza was there, and it was at that point when I walked into Mrs. Currie's office that the President was standing there with some other people discussing something," Ms. Lewinsky testified. "And they all came back to the office, and Mr. -- I think it was Mr. Toiv -- somebody accidentally knocked pizza on my jacket, so I went to go use the restroom to wash it off, and as I was coming out of the restroom, the President was standing in Mrs. Currie's doorway and said, 'You can come out this way.' " Barry Toiv was Mr. Panetta's chief aide.
Ms. Lewinsky and the President went back to the private study off the Oval Office, and there they kissed, she testified. After a few minutes, she said, she told him she had to return to her desk, but Mr. Clinton suggested that she bring him some pizza.
A few minutes later, the report said, she returned with the pizza and told Mrs. Currie, who was now back in her office, that Mr. Clinton had asked for the pizza. Mrs. Currie opened the door for her and said, "Sir, the girl's here with the pizza."
"He told me to come in," Ms. Lewinsky testified. "Mrs. Currie went back to her office and then we went into the back study area again." A sexual encounter similar to the first ensued in the windowless hallway, Ms. Lewinsky related.
While it was taking place, Mrs. Currie approached the hallway door, which was ajar, and said the President had a phone call, the Starr report said. It quoted Ms. Lewinsky as saying the caller was a Congressman with a nickname. Records show that Mr. Clinton spoke to Representative Sonny Callahan, Republican of Alabama from 9:53 P.M. to 10:14 P.M. The sexual encounter continued while the President was on the phone, the Starr report said.
"During this visit," the report said, "according to Ms. Lewinsky, the President told her that he liked her smile and her energy. He also said: 'I'm usually around on weekends, no one else is around, and you can come and see me.' "
Ms. Lewinsky was logged out of the White House at 10:39 P.M. The President went back to the chief of staff's office until 10:34 P.M., then went by the Oval Office and the ground floor corridors into the President's private residence at 10:40 P.M.
In his deposition in the Paula Jones case last Jan. 17, the President said he could not recall most of his encounters with Ms. Lewinsky, but did remember her "back there with a pizza" during the Government shutdown. But he said he did not believe they were alone.
Testifying before the grand jury on Aug. 17, Mr. Clinton said his first "real conversation" with Ms. Lewinsky took place during the November 1995 furlough. "One night she brought me some pizza," he testified, according to the Starr report. "We had some remarks."
 
Dec. 31, 1995
Mr. Clinton had still not achieved a budget agreement with Congress, and 280,000 Federal workers were on furlough in a second shutdown. But polls showed Mr. Clinton's approval rating way up, from a woeful 1994 (as low as 40 percent) to a quite successful year-end 1995 (in the high 50's).
The reasons were not hard to find: a humming economy, Mr. Clinton's tough stand against unpopular Republican budget cuts, foreign policy advances in Bosnia, Northern Ireland and the Middle East. And his political confidant, Dick Morris, was at work masterminding the 1996 re-election, in which conservative themes like "family values" would play an important role.
It was a quiet Sunday. The President had no scheduled public appearances, aside from attending early church services. But before he could leave for a holiday weekend that afternoon with his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, and their daughter, Chelsea, then 15, he had one meeting on his agenda.
At 9:50 A.M., moments before budget talks in the Cabinet Room, Mr. Clinton and Congressional leaders spoke to reporters. There was a light holiday mood to the exchanges. The President said they were driving hard to settle the budget impasse and would keep at it. Senator Bob Dole, the majority leader, said he and his colleagues would "try to pass something."
Somebody asked: "Are you closer?"
"Oh," the Kansas Senator said to a roar, "we're about six feet apart."
Senator Daschle, to more laughter, added, "We'll be a lot closer in a couple of hours."
"We're working at it steady," Mr. Clinton said, adding, "Happy New Year, everybody."
The talks ended at midday, amicably but inconclusively.
Mr. Clinton retreated to the Oval Office at 12:11 P.M., the logs show.
Ms. Lewinsky, by now a staff member in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs, testified that she was in the pantry of the President's private dining room, talking to a White House steward, Bayani Nelvis, sometime between noon and 1 P.M. She told Mr. Nelvis that she had recently smoked her first cigar, and he offered to give her one of the President's cigars, the Starr report said.
"Just then, the President came down the hallway from the Oval Office and saw Ms. Lewinsky," the report said. "The President dispatched Mr. Nelvis to deliver something to Mr. Panetta."
Ms. Lewinsky, the report said, told Mr. Clinton that Mr. Nelvis had promised her a cigar, and the President gave her one.
The report went on: "She told him her name -- she had the impression that he had forgotten it in the six weeks since their furlough encounters because, when passing her in the hallway, he had called her 'Kiddo.' The President replied that he knew her name; in fact, he added, having lost the phone number she had given him, he had tried to find her in the phone book."
By Ms. Lewinsky's account, they moved into the private study and a sexual encounter took place, their third. It followed the pattern of the first two: it was halted before climax by the President, the report quoted Ms. Lewinsky as saying. Apparently in explanation, it said she testified, "He didn't know me well enough, or he didn't trust me yet."
The logs show that Ms. Lewinsky left the White House at 1:16 P.M., and that Mr. Clinton went to the White House residence at 1:15 P.M.
Later, the President, Mrs. Clinton, and Chelsea flew to Hilton Head, S.C., for their traditional year-end family retreat called Renaissance Weekend. It was their 12th straight year at the gathering, at which the Clintons partied late on New Year's Eve with 1,000 of their closest friends, then attended a New Year's Day seminar on personal growth and family values.
 
Jan. 7, 1996
 The blizzard of 1996 had blanketed the East Coast over the weekend, paralyzing New York, Washington and everything in between. The President, wearing blue jeans and a red and black checked shirt, and Mrs. Clinton, in a purple fur-lined hat and a multicolored winter jacket, were among a few worshipers this Sunday morning at St. John's Episcopal Church, two blocks from the White House.
Ignoring their waiting motorcade, the Clintons trudged home through calf-high drifts and wind-whipped snowflakes. At one point, the President playfully scooped up a handful of snow as if to throw it and cheerfully told reporters that Congressional Democrats had canceled plans to visit him to discuss their continuing budget confrontation with the Republicans.
Mr. Clinton had ended a three-week shutdown of Federal programs on Saturday when he bowed to Republican demands and offered a new seven-year balanced-budget plan. That triggered Congressional action to finance all Government programs, but only through Jan. 26. Still, the Republicans were all over the Sunday morning talk shows, vowing to balance the budget by 2002 and denouncing the President.
"We're very concerned about whether or not there's two snow jobs going on in Washington," Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority whip, said on CBS's "Face the Nation." "Now, we feel like Charlie Brown, and Lucy has got the football, and every time you think you're going to get a real budget it gets jerked away from you."
On NBC's "Meet the Press," Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority whip, was threatening another shutdown, or at least a cutoff of Government services the Republicans did not support.
"We are going to fund only those programs we want to fund," Mr. DeLay said. "We're in charge. We don't have to negotiate with the Senate; we don't have to negotiate with the Democrats."
The Republicans were no less bellicose on the subject of Mrs. Clinton, accusing her of not telling the truth in the Whitewater investigation or about the dismissal of aides in the White House travel office.
Mrs. Clinton's answers are "not the truth," Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, said on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley." "We've had this kind of thing over and over again from her people who have stonewalled us, who have feigned memory loss."
One poll showed Mr. Clinton trailing Mr. Dole, the Republican front runner for President, 46 percent to 49 percent.
Mr. Clinton told reporters he was going to spend the rest of the day holed up with Mr. Panetta and other aides, working on the budget.
But early that afternoon, he telephoned Ms. Lewinsky at her apartment in the Watergate complex, the first time he had called her at home, according to the Starr report. He said he was going to be in his office, she remembered, adding, "I said, oh, do you want some company? And he said, oh, that would be great."
By now, she testified, they had worked out signals for their encounters. "I got there kind of saying, 'Oh, gee, here are your letters,' wink, wink, wink, and him saying 'O.K., that's good,' " she said. She carried a folder as cover, but her job did not involve delivering letters.
On this day, Ms. Lewinsky said, they "made an arrangement that. . .he would have the door to his office open, and I would pass by the office with some papers and then. . .he would sort of stop me and invite me in. So, that was exactly what happened."
They went to the bathroom of the back study and had a sexual encounter, she said.
 
Jan. 21, 1996
Like the rest of the East Coast, Washington was fighting floods.
Samuel Jordan, the city's director of the Office of Emergency Preparedness, had been up all night, watching the rain-swollen Potomac rise nearly 14 feet, twice its usual height, and flooding part of Georgetown along K Street near the Tidal Basin and the waterfront fish market. Mr. Jordan worried that the river would rise another foot before it ebbed.
Swollen streams and rivers in eight states had ravaged homes and businesses. Some of the flooding was receding, but 10,000 residents were still being evacuated in West Virginia along the surging Ohio River. About 1,100 homes on Wheeling Island alone were under six feet of water, their 3,000 occupants refugees. Pennsylvania appeared hardest hit, with homes and businesses submerged or caked in mud, power and telephone lines down, and debris littering the streets. Mr. Clinton declared the state a Federal disaster area, making available temporary housing, home repair grants and emergency loans.
On the television talk shows, his opponents attacked him over the Whitewater investigation, while the House majority leader, Dick Armey of Texas, threatened to block the nation's ability to borrow money to pay its bills unless Mr. Clinton yielded to Republicans' budget-cutting to decrease "the size and intrusiveness of Government."
On the same show, NBC's "Meet the Press," Mr. Panetta protested the Republican emphasis on Whitewater, saying: "There is a fine line between what is a legitimate continuing inquiry into a situation and what becomes political harassment. I think they're getting dangerously close to harassment."
At one point the First Family had a private tour for more than an hour of the wildly popular Vermeer exhibition at the National Gallery of Art. Accompanied by several friends, including a former college roommate of Mrs. Clinton, they gazed at the luminous blues and yellows, the subtle reflected light and the pearly highlights of the 21 paintings, which represented much of Vermeer's known output.
The President logged into the Oval Office at 3:33 P.M. Ms. Lewinsky's name does not appear on the White House logs, but according to the Starr report, she ran into Mr. Clinton in a hallway near an elevator in the West Wing and he invited her into the Oval Office. They had had phone sex for the first time the week before, the report said, and she was "feeling a little bit insecure" about whether he had enjoyed it. Eventually, she testified, they had phone sex on 10 to 15 occasions.
At their meeting this Sunday, Ms. Lewinsky remembered questioning him about his interest in her, saying, "I asked him why he doesn't ask me any questions about myself, and. . .is this just about sex. . .or do you have some interest in trying to know me as a person?" The President laughed, she said, and replied that "he cherishes the time that he had with me." She thought the reply was "a little bit odd," because she "felt like he didn't really even know me yet."
As they moved to the hallway by the study, Ms. Lewinsky was in mid-sentence when Mr. Clinton suddenly kissed her and they had a sexual encounter.
"At one point during the encounter, someone entered the Oval Office," the report said, prompting Mr. Clinton to leave her in the hallway.
A short time later, the President was told his next appointment, a friend from Arkansas, had arrived, and he escorted Ms. Lewinsky out through a connecting office. She was signed out of the White House at 3:56 P.M.
 
Feb. 4, 1996
Mr. Clinton and his daughter ventured through snow to attend Sunday morning services at Foundry United Methodist Church, where the senior minister, J. Philip Wogaman, warned the dozens of Government officials among his congregation not to abuse the public trust by going on what he called "power trips."
A deep freeze gripped much of the South that day, after a week of snow, ice and record cold blamed for 55 deaths across the lower 48 states. Temperatures hovered around zero in parts of Mississippi, Georgia and Alabama, and Florida's $1.2 billion citrus industry was in peril.
It was frosty, too, at the annual meeting of the National Governors' Conference, which took up part of the President's official day. At a White House dinner, Republicans eyed the mansion like house hunters on a real estate tour. Fresh from the attack on that morning's "Meet the Press," Michigan's Republican Governor, John Engler, said he expected a different party to be in residence in 1997. "Next year, I'll arrive in a festive mood," he said at the dinner.
Even as the Administration put last-minute touches to a budget statement due the next day, Government officials unveiled data that showed that Medicare's Hospital Insurance Trust Fund had lost money in 1995 for the first time in 23 years, meaning the Medicare program was poorer than anybody thought. "Things turned out a little worse than we expected," said Richard S. Foster, chief actuary of the Federal Health Care Financing Administration, which runs Medicare for 37 million people who are elderly or disabled. In Israel, Prime Minister Shimon Peres leaked word he planned to call for new elections ahead of schedule. The elections would bring the hard-line Likud leader Benjamin Netanyahu to power, threatening the Oslo peace accords with the Palestinians that Mr. Clinton hoped would be his enduring foreign policy triumph.
On the bright side, Mrs. Clinton's book, "It Takes a Village" was on the best-seller lists, having soared to No. 1 within a week of publication.
In the White House, Ms. Lewinsky was in her office, and that afternoon, she received a phone call from Mr. Clinton. Her sexual encounters with him were usually on the weekend, she said, when there were fewer people about.
This time, at her suggestion, they bumped into each other in the hallway because, she said, "when it happened accidentally, that seemed to work really well." Mr. Clinton was in the Oval Office from 3:36 P.M. to 7:05 P.M., logs show; there is no record of Ms. Lewinsky. They walked together into the private study, where they had a sexual encounter.
Afterward, they sat and talked awhile, maybe 45 minutes, in the Oval Office, and Ms. Lewinsky testified that she thought their friendship was starting to blossom. He said he would call her again and, perhaps mindful of her previous unease, she remembered saying, "yeah, well, what's my phone number?" He recited both her home and office numbers and, the report said, he called her at her desk later that afternoon to tell her he had enjoyed their time together.
 
PUB-DATE: March 31, 1996
Mr. Clinton was looking forward on this Sunday to throwing the first ball for opening day of the baseball season on Monday at the Baltimore Orioles' stadium, Camden Yards. But rain delayed the all-American photo op.
In Russia, President Boris N. Yeltsin, also facing a tough re-election battle, said he could not win while the war was still going on in secessionist Chechnya and vowed to halt military operations against the rebels. In Bosnia, Defense Secretary William J. Perry visited American troops who were part of the NATO peacekeeping force. There was talk of capturing the Serb leaders indicted by an international tribunal as war criminals, Gen. Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic, whose continued freedom was an embarrassment to the Administration. It never happened.
At home, Mr. Dole had clinched the Republican Presidential nomination earlier in the month and was assembling a team of economic advisers. Behind the scenes, the President's political consultant Dick Morris -- who would be brought down by his own sexual scandal -- sharpened the Clinton advertising campaign to focus on Mr. Dole. But the expensive advertisements, paid for with so-called soft money, later led to calls for an investigation into Democratic fund-raising.
Things had not been going well in recent weeks for Ms. Lewinsky.
More than a month earlier, on Feb. 19, Presidents Day, Mr. Clinton telephoned her at her Watergate apartment, Ms. Lewinsky testified, and she could tell from the tone of his voice that something was wrong. She asked to see him, but he said he did not know how long he would be at the office that day. Worried, she hurried to the White House, the only time she had come uninvited to the Oval Office, she said. There, the President told her he no longer felt right about their relationship and he had to put a stop to it. She could visit, he said, but only as a friend. He hugged her, according to the report, but would not kiss her.
Still, Ms. Lewinsky said, in the following days "there continued to be this sort of flirtation." Mr. Clinton called her apartment, the report said, expressing regret that she had left the White House early, which she thought "sort of implied to me that he was interested in starting up again."
On Friday, March 29, while Mrs. Clinton was in Greece, Ms. Lewinsky ran into the President wearing the first necktie she had given him. She asked him where he had gotten it. "Some girl with style gave it to me," she remembered he replied. He suggested she might want to casually join a group seeing a movie at the White House theater, but she said she did not want people to think she was hanging around the West Wing uninvited. She said she asked if they could arrange a rendezvous over the weekend, and that he said he would try.
They did meet that Sunday, March 31, while Mrs. Clinton was still away. "According to Ms. Lewinsky, the President telephoned her at her desk and suggested she come to the Oval Office on the pretext of delivering papers to him," the report said. "She went to the Oval Office and was admitted by a plainclothes Secret Service agent. In her folder was a gift for the President, a Hugo Boss necktie.
"In the hallway by the study, the President and Ms. Lewinsky kissed," the report went on, and had a sexual encounter. After they were finished, the report said, "Ms. Lewinsky left the Oval Office and walked through the Rose Garden."
Mrs. Clinton returned from her trip that evening.
 
PUB-DATE: April 7, 1996
It was a bone-chilling Easter Sunday, the exhausting conclusion of one of the most emotional weeks of the Clinton Presidency. Four days earlier, a military plane carrying Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown and 34 others had slammed into a mountainside near Dubrovnik, Croatia, killing everyone on board.
And so it had been a week of personal mourning, a black stretch Mr. Clinton spoke of as "this interminable week." Mr. Brown had been a good friend of the President, and in the days following the tragedy, Mr. Clinton postponed or canceled almost all of his scheduled events to devote himself to propping up the emotions of a grieving White House and comforting the families and friends of the victims. On Friday, though, he did go ahead and visit another somber destination, traveling to Oklahoma City in advance of the one-year anniversary of the April 19 bombing of the Federal Building.
There were other world events to preoccupy the President. Fighting between rebels and Government soldiers was continuing in the capital of Liberia, and North Korean troops had entered a buffer zone with South Korea for the third day.
But the President found it hard to focus on much other than the deaths on the Croatian cliff. He had to blot tears from his eyes on Saturday, as he watched the coffins bearing the bodies arriving at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware. "We were all holding up pretty well until they started taking the coffins off the plane," he said.
But now it was Easter, and as was the Clinton family custom, the President, accompanied by his wife and Chelsea, attended the 11 A.M. service at the Foundry Methodist Church, brightly decorated with lilies, azaleas and balloons. The President wore a dark suit. Mrs. Clinton chose a white coat and black hat graced with a white band and pink flower. Chelsea was dressed in a navy skirt and blazer. Secret Service agents interrupted the Easter egg hunt on the church lawn so the First Family could enter.
Mr. Wogaman, the church's senior minister, praised Mr. Brown and the "practical goodness" of those who accompanied him on his trip. "Easter is God's reply to those in heartsick sorrow," he said.
Mr. Wogaman also singled out Adam Darling, a 29-year-old confidential assistant at the Commerce Department, who died in the crash and was a member of the church. During Mr. Clinton's Presidential campaign, Mr. Darling had endeared himself to Mr. Clinton by offering to ride a bicycle across the country in support of the candidate. Mr. Darling's parents attended the service, and they requested that his favorite hymn, "This Is My Song," be sung. It begins: "This is my song, O God of all the nations, a song of peace for lands afar and mine."
The sermon was about resurrection. During it, Mr. Wogaman complimented the President for having "ministered so well for our land."
As the congregation left the church, shafts of sun finally broke through the clouds. On the way back to the White House, the Clintons stopped and shared a quiet Sunday brunch at the Four Seasons Hotel in Georgetown.
Mr. Clinton spent the balance of the afternoon, from 2:21 to 7:48, in the Oval Office. At one point, the Starr report said, he called Ms. Lewinsky at her apartment. According to her grand jury testimony, they spoke of the death of Mr. Brown, and then she told him of a fresh personal trauma of her own. On the previous Friday, she had been advised by Timothy Keating, staff director for legislative affairs, that she was being transferred from her White House job and moved to the Pentagon because she was "too sexy" to be working in the East Wing. A number of White House aides had become increasingly uncomfortable about how much time she was spending in the vicinity of the Oval Office, particularly as the campaign heated up. Ms. Lewinsky said she later learned from the President that Evelyn Lieberman, the deputy chief of staff, thought Ms. Lewinsky was paying too much attention to him and "everyone needed to be careful before the election."
When she learned she was being transferred, Ms. Lewinsky said, she was crushed and felt it was because of her relationship with the President.
Mr. Clinton seemed disturbed by the news, the report said. Ms. Lewinsky was sobbing as she related the details to him. Then she asked if she could come see him. He agreed.
At 4:56 P.M., according to White House logs, Ms. Lewinsky arrived at the White House carrying a manila folder and, under the pretext of delivering documents to the President, was admitted to the Oval Office. She met with the President in his private study, where they spoke further about her expulsion from the White House staff.
"Why do they have to take you away from me?" she testified that he asked her. According to her testimony, he looked at her and said, "I promise you if I win in November I'll bring you back like that."
She said in her testimony that he told her he would find out why she was transferred, and he said that she could have whatever job she desired after the election.
Then, according to the Starr report, she began a sexual encounter with him in the hallway between the private study and the Oval Office.
Someone in the Oval Office called out that the President had a phone call, the report went on. A White House operator had put the call through to the Oval Office, the report said, but when no one picked it up, a Secret Service agent was dispatched to locate the President. According to the report, he knocked on the door to the Oval Office, got no answer and then entered. Seeing the door to the study ajar, the report said, he called out, "Mr. President." Getting no answer, he called out again louder. The agent heard someone say "Huh?" from the study and then, after the agent said that there was a call for the President, Mr. Clinton replied that he would take it. The report said Mr. Clinton picked up the call in the study, directing Ms. Lewinsky to continue her sexual actions with him while he spoke on the phone. According to White House records cited in the report, the call lasted nine minutes and was from Mr. Morris, the political consultant.
A few minutes after the President hung up, the report said, there was a second interruption. The report quoted Ms. Lewinsky as testifying: "Harold Ickes has a very distinct voice and. . .I heard him holler, 'Mr. President,' and the President looked at me and I looked at him and he jetted out into the Oval Office and I panicked." She retreated in the other direction, leaving through the dining room. It was nearly 5:30.
Two minutes after Ms. Lewinsky left, the report said, Mr. Clinton called Ms. Lieberman,, though it is unclear whether he reached her.
That evening, the report said, Mr. Clinton telephoned Ms. Lewinsky at home and asked her why she had fled so hastily. He seemed upset that she had left.
 
Feb. 28. 1996
There were big doings for Chelsea in the works. Yesterday, she had turned 17. To mark the moment, Mr. and Mrs. Clinton had given a dinner for her and 10 of her friends at the Bombay Club, just a block's walk from the White House. There was chocolate cheesecake and a rendition of "Happy Birthday" by the pianist, with the whole restaurant singing along. While the President and the First Lady took the Presidential limousine back, Chelsea insisted on riding in the van with her giggling friends. But that was just the prelude. The Clintons were leaving for New York tomorrow to take their daughter to see some Broadway plays, something she was very much looking forward to.
Before they could set out, though, the President spent a workaday Friday attending to drug policy and cigarette sales and Midwestern winter storms. His major announcement was to certify Mexico as a full ally in the war against illegal drugs, though only after the Mexican Government agreed to commitments demanded by American law enforcement agencies. For the second year, Mr. Clinton did not certify Colombia.
There was other international and domestic news for him to ponder. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was frustrated that the Saudis were not doing more to investigate a truck bombing that had killed 19 American airmen. The Democratic Party, in one more development in the protracted campaign finance drama, said it would be returning $1.5 million more in contributions that it now felt may have been illegal or improper.
Shortly before 11 A.M., President Clinton appeared in the Roosevelt Room and spoke about an initiative to toughen the rules on cigarette sales to children. Among the new rules was a requirement that anyone under 21 who bought a tobacco product was to show a photo ID so that store clerks no longer had to guess the age of customers.
On the legislative front, Mr. Clinton signed into law H. J. Res. 36, which released money for international population assistance programs. He gave out a statement celebrating the third anniversary of the "Brady Act," which provided for a waiting period before someone could buy a handgun, calling the law "one of the most effective public safety measures ever."
In the course of the day, the President announced plans for several appointments, including his nomination of Joel I. Klein as assistant attorney general in the antitrust division of the Department of Justice.
He declared a major disaster in South Dakota, which had been pummeled by a severe winter storm in November, and ordered Federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts.
He also freed $250 million for a program to teach Americans about the harmful psychological and physical effects of sex before marriage. The program was to stress that abstinence from extramarital sex was the expected standard of the country.
It had been almost 11 months since the President had had physical contact with Ms. Lewinsky. Her expulsion to the Pentagon had succeeded in separating them. The only times she encountered him were at group events. She had seen him at a reception for the Saxophone Club, a political organization, and went with her family to one of the tapings of the President's weekly radio addresses. She got into the President's 50th birthday party at Radio City Music Hall in Manhattan, as well as a cocktail party for major donors to the Democratic Party. She testified that she saw him at a fund-raiser for Senate Democrats. Noticing that he was wearing a necktie she had given him, she approached him at the event and told him, "Hey, Handsome, I like your tie." She testified that he called her later that night.
"I was insecure about the relationship at times and thought that he would come to forget me easily," the Starr report said Ms. Lewinsky testified. "Usually when I'd see him, it would kind of prompt him to call me. So I made an effort. I would go early and stand in the front so I could see him."
The report said the two continued to talk with some regularity by phone, especially in the months after she began her job at the Pentagon. During the fall '96 campaign, the report said, the President occasionally called while on the road without Mrs. Clinton. At least seven of those conversations, the report said, were sexually explicit. But Ms. Lewinsky complained that she had not seen him privately and, according to her testimony, he told her, "Every day can't be sunshine."
On Feb. 14, 1997, Ms. Lewinsky placed a Valentine's Day ad in The Washington Post intended as a love message to the President. It was addressed to "Handsome."
At 6:29 P.M. on this Friday, Mr. Clinton went to the Roosevelt Room and taped his weekly radio address to the nation. Among those who attended the taping was Ms. Lewinsky. According to her testimony, Mr. Clinton had extended an invitation to her through Mrs. Currie.
In the address, which was broadcast the next morning, Mr. Clinton spoke of the need to prevent drugs from ruining children's lives. "First, we must fight drugs before they reach our borders and keep them out of America," he said, and he explained his decision that day to enlist Mexico in the battle.
At the session, Ms. Lewinsky had her picture taken with the President. She was nervous, the report said she testified, for she had not been alone with him since her days working at the White House. She wore a navy blue dress that she had bought at the Gap.
According to the report, Mr. Clinton told her to see Mrs. Currie after the photo was taken, since he had something to give her. Mr. Clinton, Ms. Lewinsky and Mrs. Currie together went into the back office. Stephen Goodin, an aide to the President, had told Mr. Clinton and Mrs. Currie that he did not want him alone with Ms. Lewinsky, which was why Mrs. Currie chaperoned them, the report said.
Mrs. Currie, however, said, "I'll be right back," and went on to the back dining room where, she testified, she waited for 15 to 20 minutes while the President and Ms. Lewinsky were alone in the study. As belated Christmas presents, Mr. Clinton gave Ms. Lewinsky a hat pin and an edition of Walt Whitman's "Leaves of Grass." He told her he had seen her Valentine's Day message.
In the hallway near a bathroom, Ms. Lewinsky testified, she engaged in a sexual encounter with Mr. Clinton. He heard something and they retreated into the bathroom, but no one disturbed them. According to White House logs cited in the report, Ms. Lewinsky left the White House at 7:07 P.M.
The next time she got out her navy blue Gap dress, according to the report, she noticed stains near one hip and on the front of the dress. After seeing the President, she had gone out to dinner. She thought the stains might be spinach dip. F.B.I. tests, the report said, later revealed them to be the semen of Mr. Clinton.
 
PUB-DATE: March 29, 1997
It was a lethargic Saturday. The White House was quiet, and the President was in something of a funk. He had been forced into a state of unwanted inactivity. It had been only two weeks since Mr. Clinton had tripped on the stairs of the Florida home of the golf champion Greg Norman and injured his knee, negating the President's appearance in a member-guest tournament with Mr. Norman.
Although Mr. Clinton had gone ahead with a Helsinki summit meeting with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia a week earlier, at which he had to be lowered from a catering truck in a wheelchair, his public schedule had otherwise been sharply curtailed. At most, he attended one or two brief events a day. Today he had none.
Yet Easter was at hand, and tomorrow the President would be presiding over the annual Easter Egg Roll on the South Lawn of the White House. There was a need to prepare for an Oval Office meeting on Tuesday with King Hussein of Jordan. A whole year had passed since the death of Ron Brown, and there would be a memorial service on Thursday that the President would attend.
On sleepy days like this, Mr. Clinton usually changed into his jogging shorts and took to the roadways or, better yet, tuned up a golf game grown rusty over the winter. Instead, because he was on crutches, he was reduced to tasting spring by opening the door of his study or relaxing on the Truman balcony overlooking the Rose Garden.
For the moment, he was home alone. Mrs. Clinton and Chelsea were on the last leg of a six-nation trip to Africa. On this final day, they were to tour a women's skills center in Asmara, take in a tree-planting ceremony and pay a courtesy visit to Isayas Afewerki, the President of Eritrea. Mrs. Clinton put on a white, gauzy cotton dress known as a tilfi and danced merrily with the leader of Africa's newest democracy. She was scheduled to return to Washington at 7 the next morning, in plenty of time to attend the Easter Egg Roll with her husband.
Even the Vice President was away, on a diplomatic mission in Asia. And so Mr. Clinton was reading, watching basketball and growing restless.
In his Easter radio address, broadcast at 10:06 in the morning, Mr. Clinton concentrated on the promise of spring, though there was still too much of a winter snap in the Washington air. "Spring is a season of renewal, not just of the world around us but of the ideals inside us, those that bind us together as people," Mr. Clinton said in the address. "Millions of families will come together to celebrate Easter this weekend and Passover in the coming weeks, to reaffirm their faith in God and their commitment to our sacred values."
He went on to speak of the need to overcome "the divide of race." He spoke of a 13-year-old Chicago boy who the previous week had been riding his bike home from a basketball game and was attacked and nearly beaten to death. The boy was black and his accused attackers were white. He finished by saying: "The holidays of this season teach us that hope can spring forth from the darkest of times. Those of us who are Christians celebrate a risen God who died a painful, very human death to redeem the souls of all humanity without regard to race or station."
Early in the afternoon, Mr. Clinton repaired to the Oval Office. At one point, the Starr report said, he called Monica Lewinsky and invited her over. He said he had something important to tell her.
A little past 2, Ms. Lewinsky showed up. Mrs. Currie greeted her and took her to the President's study to await Mr. Clinton. He hobbled in.
The President talked at length to Ms. Lewinsky about his concerns that others might learn of their rendezvous, the Starr report said. Without specifically identifying it, he told her that he feared that a foreign embassy was tapping his telephones. According to the report, he recommended cover stories if they were found out, suggesting that she insist that they were only friends. Should anyone have tapes of intimate phone conversations, well, then she should say they knew that someone was eavesdropping on the calls and thus they simply feigned the exchanges, the report said.
Then he kissed her and they had a sexual encounter, she said, although Mr. Clinton later implicitly denied "inappropriate" contact with her that day.
She left at 3:16 P.M. A few minutes later, Mr. Clinton left his office as well. This was, the Starr report says, Monica Lewinsky's 10th and final sexual act with President Clinton.
 
Epilogue
In the nine months after the last of the White House sexual trysts, the Starr report says, the relationship between President Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky crumbled inexorably under the President's fear of exposure and Ms. Lewinsky's growing frustrations at being shut out of his life.
They met several more times, and had numerous telephone conversations. They also exchanged small gifts and expressions of endearment. But the Starr report details a post-sexual deterioration that spills from argument and recrimination to growing suspicions and finally mutual distrust and even threats by Ms. Lewinsky.
Amid the alternating periods of anger and appeasement, there were hopeless musings about a possible future together. Letters and notes were exchanged, then destroyed in an effort to get rid of evidence of their affair. Most of their gifts were retrieved.
None of the President's promises to find Ms. Lewinsky a job got her anywhere, and she harangued him about these failures and her exclusion from his life. In an Oval Office meeting on July 4, 1997, the report said, Mr. Clinton reprimanded her for a letter in which she had obliquely threatened to disclose their relationship. "It's illegal to threaten the President of the United States," he told her.
The President showed increasing fear as the arm's-length relationship dragged on, and it expressed itself in his harsher tones to her. In a face-to-face argument on Dec. 6., Ms. Lewinsky recalled, he told her he had "never been treated as poorly by anyone else as I had treated him."
When the story of their relationship finally broke on Jan. 21, the President, in meetings with aides, denied he had ever been alone with Ms. Lewinsky. He told Sidney Blumenthal, a White House communications adviser, that she "came on to me and made a sexual demand on me," and that when he rebuffed her, she had threatened to say they had had an affair.
Mr. Blumenthal later testified that the President had spoken like a trapped man.
"I feel like a character in a novel," he quoted Mr. Clinton as saying. "I feel like somebody who is surrounded by an oppressive force that is creating a lie about me and I can't get the truth out. I feel like the character in the novel 'Darkness at Noon.' "
The protagonist in Arthur Koestler's 1941 novel was a man caught up in the Moscow purges and political trials of the 1930's.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The President's successor in Arkansas, Jim Guy Tucker, was one of his guests at a reception for the nation's governors. (Associated Press); Four days after the death of Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown in Croatia, Mr. Clinton attended Easter services. (Reuters); With teen-agers forming a backdrop, the President launched an initiative to make it harder for children to buy cigarettes. (Reuters); On a day when President Clinton was out of the public eye, his wife, Hillary, visited the President of Eritrea. (Reuters); The President's Secretary of Defense, William J. Perry, arrived in Sarajevo on a visit to allied forces in Bosnia. (Associated Press)(pg. 29); The Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, paid a visit for face-to-face negotiations with the President. (Agence France-Presse); Dick Armey, left, listened politely to Leon E. Panetta on TV, but the spending war was on again in the new year. (Associated Press); One of the biggest snowstorms in Washington history pelted the city but did not keep the Clintons from attending church. (Associated Press); With apologies to the Japanese, Mr. Clinton canceled a state visit to Tokyo and Osaka because of the budget conflict. (Associated Press); Senator Trent Lott and Representative Dick Armey ridiculed the President in a budget battle that shut Government. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); ERITREA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CROATIA (79%); JAPAN (59%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (59%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (59%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); ERITREA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CROATIA (79%); JAPAN (59%); ARKANSAS, USA (59%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (59%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ETHICS US PRESIDENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); POLITICS (76%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); ETHICS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W; KLEINFIELD, N R; KIFNER, JOHN; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D BILL CLINTON (93%); TRENT LOTT (58%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



382 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Sosa Matches McGwire With Homers 61 and 62

BYLINE: By BILL DEDMAN 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 13

 BODY:
Roger Maris's children were not in the stands today at Wrigley Field. The commissioner couldn't make it. The official National League baseballs bore no infrared markings. And the only nation with a live broadcast was the Dominican Republic.
Someone forgot to tell Sammy Sosa that the home run race was over. 
 With his 61st and 62d home runs on the same afternoon, the Dominican slugger for the Chicago Cubs moved even with Mark McGwire of St. Louis, who left tonight's game in Houston with minor back spasms after grounding out twice. McGwire has only one single in 14 at-bats since hitting his 62d home run last Tuesday. For the moment, the tortoise had caught the hare.
So Maris's 37-year-old record for most home runs in a single season, set at 61, has been passed twice in less than a week. The name next to the new mark in baseball's record book will be decided over the next two weeks by the friendly competitors, McGwire and Sosa. One, a son of a dentist from California, has had all the attention. The other, whose first baseball glove was made from a milk carton in San Pedro de Macoris, now has all the momentum.
After Sosa's record-tying blast, it took three curtain calls to sate the overflow crowd of 40,846, the largest this year at Wrigley. The crowd roared for five minutes until the game continued and buzzed for an hour after with chants of "Sammy! Sammy!"
After the game, the 29-year-old Sosa conducted interviews in two languages and received congratulatory telephone calls from Randy Maris, one of Roger's sons, and from Bud Selig, baseball's commissioner. Selig also issued a statement congratulating Sosa on his record-tying home run.
"It's unbelievable," Sosa said in words that echoed what McGwire had said after hitting his 62d home run with Sosa watching in St. Louis. Sosa, who had never hit more than 40 home runs in a season, gave the credit to others. "I have to say what I did is for the people of Chicago, for America, for my mother, for my wife, my kids and the people I have around me," he said. He went on to name even the manager of the opposing team, the Milwaukee Brewers.
Sosa would have had another chance for a home run today if the veteran Mark Grace had not hit a home run to beat the Brewers, 11-10, in the 10th inning. Sosa, who would have batted next, was so happy with Grace's game-winning blow that he hugged the umpire. "I'm sorry that I hit that home run so Sammy couldn't come up to the plate," Grace said.
For Chicago fans, the other significant event of the day was when the Cubs raised the "W" flag above the scoreboard to show they had won. Chicago stayed ahead of the Mets by one game in the competition for the last spot in the National League playoffs. The Mets won, 1-0, in Montreal. The Cubs have not played a post-season game since 1989.
When asked how he felt about the home runs, Sosa said, "I have a good feeling we're going to make it to the playoffs."
After McGwire broke the record on Tuesday, Sosa might have begun trying too hard to hit home runs. He went five days without coming close. By then, McGwire was the toast of the nation with 62, and Sosa remained four back at 58, the race conceded even by Sosa, who continued to declare, "Mark is the man."
The foul pole oracles at Wrigley Field disagreed on whether Sosa was anxious.
Billy Williams, the Hall of Famer and Cubs coach, whose No. 26 hangs from the right-field pole at Wrigley Field, said: "You could see it a few times in Pittsburgh and St. Louis; overswinging a bit. All the hoopla about the home runs has to get in your way."
Ernie Banks, the Hall of Famer whose No. 14 hangs from the left-field pole, gently disagreed: "He's not pressing. He's handled it extremely well."
Sosa showed grace by muting his celebration on the home run that equaled Babe Ruth at 60 on Saturday and again today on the home runs that tied Maris and McGwire. After he hit No. 60 on Saturday, he did not even smile. Sosa just waved his cap to the crowd and took his seat. But when Orlando Merced hit the game-winning home run in the ninth, Sosa was the first one to greet him at home plate. Today after each home run, he made his trademark leap of exultation and clenched his fists, but ran the bases as if they were routine home runs. When he reached the dugout, Sosa acknowledged the crowd's cheers and was hugged by his teammates. After the game, he helped carry Grace off the field.
Both of Sosa's home runs today sailed over the ivy-covered wall in left field, over the fence and over Waveland Avenue beyond. No member of the Brewers offered a pat on the back or applauded, as the Cubs had done for McGwire when he broke the record.
Both of Sosa's home runs were estimated at 480 feet. The first, a two-run blast at the expense of a rookie pitcher, Bronswell Patrick, put the Cubs ahead, 8-3, in the fifth inning. The second, against the veteran Eric Plunk in the ninth, started a rally in which the Cubs tied the game.
The first ball was misplayed by a mob outside the stadium that knocked over a man in a wheelchair, then was fielded on the rebound by John W. Witt, an unemployed man who quit his job last year as clubhouse manager for the Rockford Cubbies, the Cubs' Class A team. Witt was sitting in a van under a Dominican flag at the corner of Waveland and Kenmore Avenues when fortune came his way. A divorced 29-year-old from Dixon, Ill., he said he faced a hard choice: give the ball to Sosa or sell it. The profit might help him take care of his two young children. Friends hustled him and the ball back into a van for safe-keeping as fans scrambled for his autograph.
"I'll talk to Sammy about it," Witt said.
The second home run bounced down an alley. The police said a man caught it on a bounce and was tackled by two men, one of whom bit his hand and knocked the ball away. A fourth fan picked up the ball and ran into the arms of police officers, who took him to the nearest station and then home. It was unclear how he would authenticate his fortune. Major League Baseball had not marked these game balls, as was done when McGwire reached 60.
Could Sosa, who is the leading candidate for most valuable player in the league, end up with more home runs than McGwire? Sosa has 12 games left, McGwire 14. Both will face the weak-pitching Brewers and the powerful Houston Astros.
Sosa also draws the first-place San Diego Padres and the lowly Cincinnati Reds, while McGwire, who left tonight's game as a precaution, plays two poor teams, the Pittsburgh Pirates and Montreal Expos.
If Sosa passes McGwire in the next four games, he will do it in the relative obscurity of night games on the West Coast.
The Cubs left town today for San Diego for four games with the Padres. The first three are night games, putting Sosa far from the attention of East Coast television viewers and newspaper readers.
"Who'd have ever thought that two people would do it in the same year?" Grace said. "I hope Sammy gets the attention that he deserves."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sammy Sosa, sitting on teammates' shoulders, waved to the crowd after hitting his 62d home run yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. D3); Sammy Sosa of the Chicago Cubs taking his ritual leap after hitting his 62d home run, his second of the game yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (73%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO CUBS; MILWAUKEE BREWERS; ST LOUIS CARDINALS MILWAUKEE BREWERS BASEBALL CLUB (51%); CHICAGO CUBS (91%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS; MILWAUKEE BREWERS; ST LOUIS CARDINALS CHICAGO CUBS (91%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WRIGLEY FIELD (CHICAGO) BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (55%); 

PERSON: PATRICK, BRONSWELL; PLUNK, ERIC; DEDMAN, BILL; MCGWIRE, MARK; SOSA, SAMMY; SELIG, BUD (COMR); MARIS, ROGER (1934-85); MARIS, RANDY ROGER EUGENE MARIS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



383 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE EDITORIALS;
At Least 30 Papers Call for Resignation

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
Scattershot anger and disgust at President Clinton, combined with pervasive anxiety about the potential use and misuse of constitutional impeachment powers, left many editorial pages groping to find analytic prescriptions to ease the dilemmas facing Congress and the President.
At least 30 newspapers have called for the President's resignation, including 7 that circulate 250,000 or more papers on Sundays: The New Orleans Times-Picayune, The Seattle Times, The Des Moines Sunday Register, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The San Jose Mercury-News, The Tampa Tribune and The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. The Albuquerque Journal on Sunday called Mr. Clinton "morally unfit to continue in office," while The Seattle Times said, "Without moral authority, the President cannot lead." 
 Focusing on the damage the President's affair with Monica S. Lewinsky has done to the dignity and effectiveness of the Presidency, The Journal-Constitution declared on Sunday that "only one person can spare us that nightmare" of a drawn-out discussion "of a particularly seamy Presidential scandal." The President's "only responsible option" -- resignation -- would entail a sacrifice that the newspaper said Mr. Clinton "has shown himself incapable" of making.
At least two newspapers, The Charlotte Observer and The Detroit Free Press, argued against resignation. The Observer declared: "The nation is not endangered by having Bill Clinton in the White House. Our economy is not collapsing, we're not under attack, there's no threat of a coup. Surely the worst that can be said of him has been said."
The Detroit Free Press, in the home town of John Conyers Jr., the ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, acknowledged, "We cannot say we would be devastated" by a resignation, but continued, "For him to resign before this process is completed would be to cave in to the relentless Starr, and that could set a precedent that would make future Presidents sitting ducks for their political enemies."
Over all, the ideas and analyses that emerged from the editorial pages reflected ambivalence and a sense of being overwhelmed by the issues involved.
Should they focus on what was and was not contained in the report of the independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr? Should they address the President, the Congress, the voters, or all three? Should they zero in on sexual encounters and misleading statements? What about the practical issues of a weakened President's governance? The legal questions of what constitutes an impeachable offense? The moral issues of leadership?
The most common warning was crystallized by The Sacramento Bee, which wrote Saturday, "The Constitution is the sacred text of American life, overarching Presidents as they come and go beneath it." It added, "The accelerating hysteria that accompanied release of the prosecutor's report Friday is the enemy of constitutional self-government."
The St. Louis Post-Dispatch solved the problem of which questions to answer by running three separate unsigned editorials. Sunday's lead opinion piece argued that the Starr report "is like a tower of blocks wobbling on top of the shaky foundation of a sexual relationship between two consenting adults -- albeit an immoral, adulterous, pitifully adolescent relationship." A second editorial was titled "The Peep-Show Presidency" and said, "We hate ourselves for staring, but we can't turn away." A third editorial was headlined 'The Contrition Gambit."
The New York Times ran two editorials over the weekend. On Saturday it said that "until it was measured by Kenneth Starr, no citizen -- indeed, perhaps no member of his own family -- could have grasped the completeness of President Clinton's mendacity or the magnitude of his recklessness." It added, "A President without public respect or Congressional support cannot last." Sunday, it argued that scrupulously careful and fair procedures should govern any impeachment inquiry in the House of Representatives.
The Washington Post took Mr. Starr to task for being arrogant in his "aggressive advocacy for impeachment," contrasting the Starr report unfavorably with "the restraint showed by the special prosecutor during Watergate," the scandal that led to the resignation of President Nixon in 1974."
In a clear expression of ambivalence, The Post concluded, "Mr. Clinton's behavior is at the margins of impeachability -- straddling the line that separates disqualifying crimes from conduct that merely mars indelibly the Presidential office and the man who holds it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (71%); SACRAMENTO BEE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); IMPEACHMENT; CONSTITUTIONS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS IMPEACHMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ETHICS (75%); SCANDALS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARRINGER, FELICITY; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN CONYERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



384 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
A Fleet Gore Is Far From the Madding Washington Crowd

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 13

 BODY:
This is the quintessential road trip for Vice President Al Gore.
In two days of travel through the Pacific Northwest, Saturday and today, he talked to enthusiastic crowds about light rails, planned growth, economic revitalization, Social Security, health care, education, coastal salmon and affirmative action. 
 Along the way, he shared the podium with Democratic candidates and elected officials and starred at eight fund-raising events, where aides said he had helped local party officials in Oregon and Washington generate more than $350,000 for Congressional and statehouse candidates.
In the course of all this activity, he made about as much news as the sun rising. His only mention of the report by the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, was a hurried and predictable statement on Saturday -- no questions, please -- that he did not think the case outlined against President Clinton in the Monica Lewinsky matter justified impeachment proceedings.
"Our story," a close aide to the Vice President said as Mr. Gore made a speech in Vancouver, Wash., "is that there is no story. Maybe after the election, we'll step out. But not now. The country is stable. Why make things unstable?"
This is the protective bubble surrounding the nation's second-in-command, a haven of rarefied air that fairly floats above the political craziness along Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, unconnected to any aspect of the boss's relationship with a young White House intern.
Inside the bubble, Mr. Gore carries himself like a politician without a worry, other than standard anxieties over close Congressional races in a year of midterm elections.
Scandal? What scandal? Mr. Gore never mentions it in speeches and is fiercely insulated by his staff from reporters. Two months from the midterms and two years from the Presidential balloting of 2000, he is but two things above all else, a Clinton loyalist and Presidential candidate. As his aides say, what is the upside for him to elaborate now?
And so, they say, Mr. Gore's campaign season will proceed in the same manner as the trip at hand, stuffed with frenzied days like today, in which he followed a five-kilometer race to raise money for breast-cancer research with five events before an overnight flight to New York, where he is to join Mr. Clinton at a state party dinner on Monday night.
Later in the week, he is off to Boston for an event with Mr. Clinton, then his third trip this year to New Hampshire, an early battleground for the 2000 Presidential campaign.
For Mr. Gore, the bubble is the ideal campaign vehicle. By assiduously avoiding sensitive subjects, he has cleared a path to discuss only his favorite issues, Administration initiatives that many Democrats claim have bolstered the economy and reflect voter satisfaction with Mr. Clinton's stewardship of the country.
As a strategy, it satisfies his main agenda, supporting Mr. Clinton and reinforcing policies that would be extended into a Gore Administration.
At the same time, Mr. Gore's message and crazy-quilt of a schedule are letting him fine-tune his presentations before partisan audiences. Listeners are beginning to see a politician unlike the 1992 and 1996 version of Mr. Gore, a self-parodied "stiff guy" lacking the touchy-feely qualities that make Mr. Clinton a hit along the rope line and elsewhere.
Mr. Gore has become more emotive in speeches, more animated and funnier. One of his best laugh lines generally follows a comparison of the Administration's proposal for a patient's "Bill of Rights" and the Republicans' version, which he calls a "Bill of Goods."
"You know, the Republicans are in such discord and disarray," Mr. Gore says with a straight face, "that the right hand doesn't know what the far right hand is doing."
For the most part, the reconstituted Mr. Gore plays well to the crowd, especially in places like here, which are geographically, and to some degree psychologically, far removed from events in the nation's capital.
"I've been doorbelling a lot, and I'll bet I haven't gotten more than two comments about the President," said Maureen Gallegos, a businesswoman who is running for a seat in the Republican-controlled Washington Statehouse. "Clinton's sex life is his business. This district has experienced 20 years of growth in five years, and that is presenting us with a lot of problems to talk about."
For some partisan Democrats, Mr. Gore -- at least for now -- may be the premier headliner to address them as he stumps for candidates, makes a case for Democratic ideals and raises money.
Paige Richardson, campaign manager for Brian Baird, who is running for the open seat in Washington's Third Congressional District -- Linda Smith, a two-term Republican, is running for the Senate -- appeared ecstatic that Mr. Gore helped draw 400 people to a rally in Vancouver, Wash., on Saturday. The event raised $30,000 for Mr. Baird, whose Republican opponent in what is expected to be a close race will be decided on Tuesday.
When Ms. Richardson was asked whether the crowd would have been as exuberant had Mr. Clinton been the speaker, she hesitated, a clear sign she was happy to have Mr. Gore.
"I didn't hear that question," she said, smiling because she did. "I don't have an answer for that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore ran shoulder-to-shoulder in the "Race for the Cure" yesterday in Seattle with Camari Ferguson, a breast cancer survivor. He attended five other events before heading for New York overnight. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GORE ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: GORE ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ETHICS ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); IMPEACHMENT (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NEW ISSUES (77%); ETHICS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (72%); BREAST CANCER (50%); CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W; JANOFSKY, MICHAEL AL GORE (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



385 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 4300 words

HEADLINE: George Wallace, Segregation Symbol, Dies at 79

BYLINE: By HOWELL RAINES

 BODY:
Former Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, who built his political career on segregation and spent a tormented retirement arguing that he was not a racist in his heart, died last night in Montgomery, Ala. He was 79 and lived in Montgomery.
Mr. Wallace died of respiratory and cardiac arrest at 9:49 P.M., said Dana Beyerly, a spokeswoman for Jackson Hospital in Montgomery. Mr. Wallace had been in declining health since being shot in his 1972 Presidential campaign by a 21-year-old drifter named Arthur Bremer. 
 Mr. Wallace, a Democrat who was a longtime champion of states' rights, dominated his own state for almost a generation. But his wish was to be remembered as a man who might have been President and whose campaigns for that office in 1968, 1972 and 1976 established political trends that have dominated American politics for the last quarter of the 20th century.
He believed that his underdog campaigns made it possible for two other Southerners, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, to be taken seriously as Presidential candidates. He also argued ceaselessly that his theme of middle-class empowerment was borrowed by Richard M. Nixon in 1968 and then grabbed by another Californian, Ronald Reagan, as the spine of his triumphant populist conservatism.
In interviews later in his life, Mr. Wallace was always less keen to talk about his other major role in Southern history. After winning his first term as Governor in 1962, he became the foil for the huge protests in which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. destroyed segregation in public accommodations in 1963 and secured voting rights for blacks in 1965.
As a young man, Mr. Wallace came boiling out of the sun-stricken, Rebel-haunted reaches of southeast Alabama to win the governorship on his second try. He became the only Alabamian ever sworn in for four terms as Governor, winning elections in 1962, 1970, 1974 and 1982. He retired at the end of his last term in January 1987.
So great was his sway over Alabama that by the time he had been in office only two years, other candidates literally begged him for permission to put his slogan, "Stand Up for Alabama," on their billboards. Senators John Sparkman and Lister Hill, New Deal veterans who were powers in Washington and the national Democratic Party, feared to contradict him in public when he vowed to plunge the state into unrelenting confrontation with the Federal Government over the integration of schools, buses, restrooms and public places in Alabama.
It was a power built entirely on his promise to Alabama's white voting majority to continue the historic oppression of its disfranchised and largely impoverished black citizens. And it was snapshots of the peak moments of Mr. Wallace's campaign of racial oppression that burned him into the nation's consciousness as the Deep South's most forceful political brawler since Huey Long of Louisiana.
First, on Jan. 14, 1963, there was his inaugural address, written by a known Ku Klux Klansman, Asa Carter. In it, Mr. Wallace promised to protect the state's "Anglo-Saxon people" from "communistic amalgamation" with blacks and ended with the line that would haunt his later efforts to enter the Democratic mainstream: "Segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever."
Mr. Wallace's next signature moment came on June 11, 1963, when he mounted his "stand in the schoolhouse door" to block two black students, Vivian Malone and James Hood, from enrolling at the University of Alabama. Within days, it was convincingly reported that Mr. Wallace, fearing jail for defying a Federal court order, had privately promised President John F. Kennedy that he would step aside if first allowed to make a defiant speech.
Mr. Wallace's in-state critics denounced him for a "charade" that embarrassed the state. But the cold splash of reality did not dampen his plans to use Alabama as a stepping stone to the national political arena and to the anti-Big-Government speeches by which he obsessively longed to be remembered by history.
Mr. Wallace talked of running for President in 1964 as a neo-Dixiecrat candidate. But he backed off when the Republican nominee, Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona, came out against the bill that later became the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Mr. Goldwater's move undercut Mr. Wallace's trademark assertion that "there's not a dime's worth of difference" between the two main parties on race.
After the election, Mr. Wallace regretted his timidity because he thought Mr. Goldwater had run a campaign of comical ineptitude, and when 1968 came around, he invented a party, drafted the eccentric retired Air Force general Curtis LeMay as his running mate, and began draining away the lunch-pail vote from Mr. Nixon.
One reason for his success was that Mr. Wallace always campaigned "with the tense urgency of a squirrel," in the memorable description of one biographer, Marshall Frady. Another reason was that his message worked among disaffected whites everywhere, not just in the South.
Mr. Wallace's political radar had picked up signals that Rust Belt workers and urban white ethnic Americans from Boston to Baltimore felt disgruntled about black students in their neighborhood schools and black competitors in the workplace. He cleaned up his language, but he used an expurgated list of demons -- liberals, Communists, the Eastern press, Federal judges, "pointy-headed intellectuals" -- to tap out in code words an updated version of his fire-hardened message from the Heart of Dixie. It was race and rage.
This blend of color prejudice and economic grievance appealed to enough voters to win him more than 13 percent of the popular vote and five states in the 1968 Presidential election.
 
Tormented by Thorn In Flesh and Psyche
In the 1972 race, he was running even stronger in the Democratic Presidential primaries. He rattled the party's establishment with a second-place finish in Wisconsin and a rapid ascent in the polls. He also won primaries in Maryland and Michigan on May 16, but got the news in a hospital bed, having been shot and paralyzed on the day before the balloting.
The injury from Mr. Bremer's bullet became a "thorn in my flesh," Mr. Wallace later said, and the truncated campaign became a thorn in his psyche. He died believing that had he not been shot, popular appeal would have forced the Democratic Party to put him on the ticket in 1972 to keep Mr. Nixon from sweeping the Sun Belt and blue-collar enclaves in the Middle West and Northeast.
Mr. Wallace ran again in 1976. From the start, aides noticed that the applause dwindled once crowds saw his shiny wheelchair. Mr. Wallace noticed it, too, and in private he disputed friends who reminded him that Franklin D. Roosevelt had won despite crutches and wheelchair.
"Yeah," Mr. Wallace told his confidant Oscar Adams, "they elected Roosevelt, but they didn't watch him on television every night getting hauled on a plane like he was half-dead."
The death of Mr. Wallace's Presidential dream came just before the Illinois primary, when he dropped out and endorsed a more modern Southerner with no segregationist baggage, Gov. Jimmy Carter of Georgia.
Mr. Wallace wanted to be remembered for his shining moment in 1972 and the Main Street themes he brought to prominence. Dan Carter, a professor of history at Emory University and author of the most detailed Wallace biography, "The Politics of Rage," supports the claim.
"It is difficult to conceive of what American politics of the 1960's, 70's and 80's would be like without George Wallace," Mr. Carter said in a 1994 interview. "I don't think there's a single issue that Nixon and Reagan talk of in terms of social issues that he doesn't get to first."
In this view, Mr. Wallace's Presidential campaigns prefigured, in an especially abrasive way, a large portion of the country's politics of later years. Mr. Wallace was the first major political figure in his generation to exploit the antipathy toward Washington that went on to be a prime force in politics from coast to coast.
He was also surely the first in his generation to galvanize the white, working-class voters later labeled as Reagan Democrats. And he was the first nationally known politician of that generation to put such raucous emphasis on race, crime, welfare and other issues that still loom large, if less crudely, on the political landscape.
After he retired as Governor, Mr. Wallace used interviews to push relentlessly at the theme that he was the real inventor of Reaganism. Starting in 1979, he also undertook a campaign of apology and revisionist explanation intended to erase the word "racist" from his epitaph.
He argued that his early devotion to segregation was based on his reading of the Constitution and the Bible and was misinterpreted as a racist hatred of black people.
"I made a mistake in the sense that I should have clarified my position more," he said in his last term as Governor. "I was never saying anything that reflected upon black people, and I'm very sorry it was taken that way."
That Mr. Wallace died haunted by race is appropriate to his life story -- one of Faulknerian perversity embodying the old themes of guilt and a steady, if clumsy, Snopsian aspiration.
 
Whetting a Taste For Underdog Politics
George Corley Wallace Jr. was born on Aug. 25, 1919, in Clio, Ala., a cotton town in Barbour County, where mule-drawn wagons were as common as cars on the unpaved main street. His father was the wastrel son of a beloved local doctor. His mother, Mozelle Smith Wallace, had survived abandonment by her mother and a depressing girlhood in an Episcopal orphanage at Mobile.
Like his father, George Jr. was quick with his fists and drawn to politics. Calling himself the "Barbour Bantam," he won two Golden Gloves titles while in high school.
As a 15-year-old legislative page at the Capitol in Montgomery, he stood on the gold star marking the spot where Jefferson Davis was sworn in as president of the Confederacy and where, by tradition, Alabama governors have taken the oath of office ever since. It was the seminal moment of his youth. Man and boy, George Wallace revered that spot, so much so that as Governor he ordered state troopers to encircle it so that a visitor, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, could not put a desecrating Yankee foot atop it.
It was in 1937, on the oak-shaded Tuscaloosa campus of the University of Alabama, that George Wallace began to define what he would become politically. He arrived in the same shiny suit he had worn as a page in Montgomery, but Tuscaloosa was a congenial place for poor, ambitious country boys. And by tradition, it was a virtual boot camp for future governors and senators. Young Wallace won election as president of the freshman class.
He never won another student office, but his campaign to beat the fraternity machine with a coalition of independents and out-of-state students whetted his permanent taste for underdog politics.
The other leitmotifs of his Alabama career -- cronyism and betrayal -- emerged at the university. He acquired the hangers-on who staffed his later efforts, and he made an unlikely, but ill-fated friendship with Frank Johnson, a handsome law student from Winston County, a Unionist stronghold in northern Alabama that seceded from Alabama when Alabama left the Union. Mr. Johnson was a Republican, Mr. Wallace an ardent New Deal Democrat. Mr. Johnson joked about someday being a Federal judge and Mr. Wallace about being governor. But the big wheels on campus tended to dismiss Mr. Wallace's ambitions as comical.
For in those days, too, Mr. Wallace impressed people by his frenetic energy and tireless pugnacity rather than by any inherent attractiveness. He waited tables and drove taxis and slid through law school, cramming from borrowed books. Frank Johnson's wife, Ruth, was worried by Mr. Wallace's habit of chasing innocent high school girls, although she thought him more interested in the adoration than sexual conquest. Finally in 1943, at the age of 23, he decided to marry one of his naive admirers, a 16-year-old dime store clerk named Lurleen Burns.
It was wartime and Mrs. Wallace and their baby daughter, Bobbi Joe, born in 1944, followed wherever Mr. Wallace's flight training in the Army Air Forces took him. He shipped to the Mariana Islands as a flight engineer in the spring of 1945, assigned to fly bombing missions over Japan.
The biographer Dan Carter found fellow crew members who remembered Mr. Wallace's barracks lectures defending segregation in Barbour County. "I don't hate them," Mr. Wallace was reported to have said. "The colored are fine in their place. But they're just like children, and it's not something that's going to change. It's written in stone."
Mr. Wallace had been through nine combat missions by the time the war ended. He was discharged with a 10 percent disability for combat-induced "psychoneurosis," diagnosed after he refused orders to fly dangerous training missions when his unit returned to California after the Japanese surrender. Years later, Senator Wayne Morse, Democrat of Oregon, disclosed Mr. Wallace's wartime psychiatric history. Mr. Wallace responded that unlike his liberal attacker, he could prove that he was 90 percent sane.
After the war, Mr. Wallace began climbing up the political ladder with remarkable speed. Using his Barbour County connections, he was named an assistant to Alabama's Attorney General in 1946. The next year he won election to the Alabama Legislature. He allied himself with the racially moderate populist Gov. James E. Folsom and prevailed on Mr. Folsom to appoint him as a trustee of all-black Tuskegee Institute.
As a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1948, Mr. Wallace refused to join the walkout by segregationist "Dixiecrats," a move that placed him firmly in the progressive, racially moderate wing of a state Democratic Party that still had "White Supremacy" emblazoned on its ballot emblem.
After this blooding in state and national politics, Mr. Wallace settled in as an elected district judge in his home county, serving from 1953 to 1958 and all the while laying plans to run for governor in 1958.
It was in the preparation of that race and its aftermath that Mr. Wallace committed two betrayals -- one personal and one political -- that blemished his reputation for life, but also gave him a generationlong stranglehold on Alabama politics.
The first came after 1958, when Mr. Wallace's surprisingly strong dark-horse candidacy failed. He had followed the tolerant racial line laid down by Governor Folsom and lost to John Patterson, whose devotion to massive resistance to court-ordered integration won him the following of the Ku Klux Klan. There were only about 5,000 Klan members, Mr. Patterson later recalled, but they helped him paper the state with campaign literature.
Later, Mr. Wallace, in a quotation whose authenticity he long disputed, was recorded as saying that no one "will ever out out-nigger me again."
 
Race Issue Is Played For All It Is Worth
Even if not literally true, the remark defined the strategy Mr. Wallace would use to ride to power. He started the very next year when his law school friend Frank Johnson, now a Federal judge with a strong civil rights record, ordered Mr. Wallace's court to surrender voter-registration records to the United States Civil Rights Commission. Mr. Wallace denounced Judge Johnson in public as a Federal dictator, but conspired secretly to avoid being jailed on Federal contempt charges by having a local grand jury surrender the records on his behalf.
Judge Johnson ruled that Mr. Wallace had used "devious means," but had nonetheless obeyed the Federal court order. Never one to be embarrassed by the facts, Mr. Wallace labeled Judge Johnson a "carpet-bagging, scalawagging liar" who wanted to mount "a second Sherman's March to the Sea."
Mr. Wallace had lost a friend but gained a nickname, "The Fighting Judge," that would help make him Governor in 1962 as an all-out segregationist with Klan backing. As Judge Johnson later told the Alabama writer Frank Sikora, Mr. Wallace had also established the tactical blueprint of his career: "misleading the people of Alabama for the purpose of pursuing his political career."
Mr. Wallace, of course, did not see it that way. He described himself as devoted to the economic development of his state and to advancing the causes of limited government and middle-class values in national politics. The reality was both uglier and more complicated.
In his four terms as Governor, Mr. Wallace saw an era of unparalleled corruption that operated through a crony system centered on his brother Gerald, a lawyer who died in 1993. With the Governor's approval, Gerald Wallace and his close associate, Oscar Harper, went into business selling the state office supplies, printing, vending machines and building leases. Gerald Wallace and Mr. Harper established an asphalt company with $1,000 in capital. In a year and half, the infant company garnered more than a million dollars in state contracts.
It is one of the paradoxes of Southern history that Alabama's "Fighting Judge," by trying to revive the antebellum doctrine of states' rights, instead enabled the civil rights movement to reach its high-water mark. The Birmingham demonstrations in 1963 led to the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Two years later the Selma march led to the passage of the 1965 Voting Rights Act.
Despite these triumphs, it was a dangerous time for blacks and whites who supported the civil rights movement. During the Wallace years, at least 10 people died in racially motivated killings in Alabama. Governor Wallace and his flamboyantly inept and drug-addled public safety director, Al Lingo, responded mainly by disrupting the Federal investigations into crimes like the bombing that killed four little girls at the 16th Street Baptist Church on Sept. 15, 1963.
Leaders of Alabama's business and educational establishment, always sensitive to the state's image, came to regard Mr. Wallace as an embarrassment.
But George Wallace was a creature of the storm who always had wind beneath his wings, and that wind was the adoration of the white farmers and factory workers and rural courthouse bosses who counted the votes and doled out patronage.
They loved it when Mr. Wallace waved his cigar, flooded his food with ketchup and said that the guy pumping gas at an Alabama crossroads knew more about Communism than the State Department.
When a surprisingly strong anti-Wallace faction in the Legislature refused to alter the state Constitution to allow him a second term, Mr. Wallace put his ailing wife Lurleen on the ballot in 1966. She won easily in a heart-rending campaign that demonstrated the scope of his ambition. Only a few weeks before her husband announced her candidacy, Mrs. Wallace had surgery and radiation treatment for the aggressive intestinal cancer that would kill her in 1968.
Political writers predicted that Alabamians would punish Mr. Wallace for his cynical use of a sick woman. But he was only shifting gears. He reclaimed the governorship in 1970 with the most flagrantly racist campaign of his career, warning that his progressive opponent, Albert Brewer, was using a black "block vote" to install a regime of Federal oppression. With Mr. Wallace's clear approval, the Klan circulated fliers falsely accusing the clean-living Mr. Brewer and his wife and daughters of sexual perversions and miscegenation.
It was a historic election for Alabama in two ways. First, Alabama was resisting the epochal progressive wave that swept the region in 1970 and installed New South governors like Jimmy Carter in Georgia and Reubin Askew in Florida. Secondly, Mr. Wallace was openly committing himself to the Presidential race track.
By Mr. Wallace's reckoning, his appeal to blue-collar voters outside the South had "shaken the eyeteeth" of both major parties in 1968. Indeed, President Nixon so feared Mr. Wallace's disruptive potential in 1972 that he supplied $400,000 to Mr. Wallace's opponent in the 1970 campaign for governor. But Mr. Wallace won with his racist attacks and his invitation to Alabamians to "send them a message" by launching him toward the 1972 Presidential race.
For a few months, Mr. Wallace was the hottest thing going. Gone were the pomaded hair and the bargain-store threads. His stylish new wife, Cornelia Ellis Snively, a niece of former Governor Folsom, decked out Mr. Wallace in modish, wide-lapel suits and taught him to use a blow dryer. Mr. Wallace talked less about race because he could afford to. His attacks on school busing let conservative whites know where he stood.
As Mr. Wallace moved toward victory in the Florida primary, President Nixon himself made an anti-busing speech that was regarded as a tribute to Mr. Wallace's growing appeal. Mr. Wallace finished second behind Senator George McGovern in the Wisconsin primary and second to former Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey in Indiana. Having established himself as a force in the Democratic Party, he was topping the polls in the primary campaigns of Maryland and Michigan.
But on the afternoon of May 15, at an unnecessary campaign rally in Laurel, Md., Mr. Wallace overruled the Secret Service and moved into a crowd for a final round of handshaking. "Hey, George, let me shake hands with you," shouted Arthur Bremer. Frustrated in an earlier ambition to kill Mr. Nixon, Mr. Bremer, had been stalking the Governor for weeks. From a range of three feet, the gunman shot Mr. Wallace three times, severing his spine and paralyzing him for life. Mr. Bremer is now in prison in Maryland, serving the 63-year sentence given him in June 1972.
 
Never-Ending Pain And Marital Trouble
Although his Presidential hopes ended, Mr. Wallace won two more terms as Governor by appealing to white loyalty and catering to the thousands of new black voters. But Mr. Wallace now behaved more like a pensioner than a chief executive. The constant pain from his wound -- "the thorn in my flesh" -- limited his concentration and resulted in a dependence on methadone and other painkillers. He went through a messy divorce from his wife, Cornelia in 1978. Then she encountered her own problems with substance abuse.
Mr. Wallace's hope to found a dynasty foundered when his son, George Jr., could not progress beyond minor state offices. Mr. Wallace married again to a failed country singer named Lisa Taylor. That marriage, too, generated sour publicity before they divorced in 1987.
He is survived by his sister, Marianne Dauphin Montgomery; four children from his first marriage: his son, of Montgomery; three daughters, Lee Dye of Greenville, Ala., Bobbie Jo Parsons of Birmingham and Peggy SueKennedy of Montgomery; a brother, Jack, of Clayton, Ala.; and several grandchildren.
Mr. Wallace won his last election as Governor in 1982, but it was historical revision that occupied his last years. Starting in 1977, he began giving interviews in which he said that political philosophy rather than racism drove his career.
In a typical interview, he said: "The New York Times, the Eastern establishment newspapers never did understand that segregation wasn't about hate. I didn't hate anybody. I don't hate the man who shot me. When I was young, I used to swim and play with blacks all the time. You find more hate in New York, Chicago and Washington, D.C., than in all the Southern states put together."
As part of his rehabilitation effort, Mr. Wallace sought meetings with civil rights figures like the Rev. Ralph D. Abernathy, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Representative John Lewis, whose beating on "Bloody Sunday" at Selma galvanzied the voting-rights crusade. Sometimes he even managed to use the magic words "I'm sorry."
After Mr. Wallace left office in 1987, Alabamians continued to support him through a figurehead position at Troy State University. By the time he died, Republicans had taken over the governorship, and Mr. Wallace's main legacy, a statewide system of trade schools, junior colleges, and small four-year institutions, was regarded as a monument to educational waste and redundancy that a poor state could ill afford.
One of his last public appearances was in the Spike Lee documentary "Four Little Girls," which tells the story of the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing. In his interview, Mr. Wallace insists that his best friend was a black orderly. He keeps tugging the obviously uncomfortable orderly into the frame. In public showings, that passage usually drew laughter.
So ended the public career that saw Mr. Wallace move from being the most feared politician of his era to a pitiable relic. It is a career whose moral arc seemed, in retrospect, utterly predictable and utterly of a piece with the Faulknerian idea of racism's ineradicable curse. At the height of his powers, George Wallace denied moral responsibility for the violence in his state. And in his Bible-haunted state, many said a terrible judgment had been visited upon him.
Brandt Ayers, the liberal editor of The Star newspaper in Anniston, put it this way: "The Governor we Alabamians knew was a man of primal passion: sincere champion of the working class, cynical manipulator of their resentments, a sorcerer summoning the beast in our nature, a man of deep insecurities, tenderness, and finally, humility."
He added, "When he came to my office in 1974 campaigning for governor, I told him: 'George, you always claimed to stand up for the little man, but everybody knows that the real underdog is the black man. We stood up for him. You didn't. Why?' He did not answer. He just looked down at his legs for what seemed a very long time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THE SCHOOLHOUSE DOOR -- Gov. George C. Wallace stopped a government official who tried to enroll two black students at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa. (Associated Press, 1963); IN SHOOTING'S AFTERMATH Cornelia Wallace knelt over her husband after he was shot while campaigning for President in Laurel, Md. The incident left him disabled. (United Press International, 1972)(pg. B13); George C. Wallace (Gary Settle/The New York Times, 1972)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (99%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (92%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ALABAMA, USA (99%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (92%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRENDS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



386 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Where Europe Draws The Line

BYLINE: By Josef Joffe; Josef Joffe is editorial page editor of Suddeutsche Zeitung in Munich.

DATELINE: MUNICH

 BODY:
Does "Bill and Monica" play in Pisa? You bet, every night and every day. Lowbrow or high, glossy or dull, the media between Lisbon and Lodz are doing exactly the same as their counterparts in the United States. If the European newspapers and news shows don't feature the collapse of Russia or the slow death of Congo, Kenneth Starr's 36 boxes of evidence and the President's lip-biting apologies are sure to fill the space. Except that Le Monde or The Times of London doesn't devote 19,000 lines per week to the story.
Europeans like the story not only as an inexhaustible source of titillation; hanky-panky in high places, after all, has an even greater universal appeal than the tales of the Brothers Grimm. Europeans also relish the saga because it allows them to crow a bit. 
 They may suffer from low growth, high unemployment and movies that do not sell. But at last there is something to burnish their ancient sense of cultural superiority toward their upstart relatives across the sea. If Americans aren't crass and money-grubbing, they are blue-nosed Puritans, always ready to convulse with collective hysteria when their politicians paw somebody who is not their spouse.
Never mind that "Puritanism" has been out in America since Hollywood's Hays Office, the self-censorship board that allowed only simulated kissing between fully clothed adults, closed up shop in 1966. Europeans love to think that they are wise to the ways of the flesh, and prudently forgiving where Americans let their prurience run riot.
It is true that Europeans are -- or used to be -- more relaxed when treated to the eternal drama of sex and power. But that is where the free ride ends. When sex leaves the bedroom and collides with the public trust and high affairs of state, Europeans have been just as relaxed as was Savonarola. Retribution, in fact, has come more swiftly than in the case of Bill Clinton, who is only now, eight months into Monicagate, facing the prospect of impeachment.
Remember John Profumo, the British Defense Minister, and his affair with Christine Keeler, who had also pleased a London K.G.B. man? He lied about it to Parliament in 1963 and was immediately sacked. His German colleague Franz Josef Strauss overstepped bounds when he sicced the police on a hated newsmagazine and lied about it to the Bundestag in 1962. He, too, was forced to resign posthaste.
Willy Brandt, German Chancellor from 1969 to 1974, presumably could have said about himself what Lyndon B. Johnson was said to have sputtered when treated to yet another report of Jack Kennedy's sexual prowess: "I've had more women by accident than he did by design." Yet when it turned out that Gunther Guillaume, the Brandt aide who knew most about his extracurricular activities, was an East German Stasi spy, it was "goodbye" to Willy and "hello" to Helmut (Schmidt, that is, not Kohl).
The point is, If you lie, you go, and if you are stupid enough to philander your way into a blackmail trap, you fall even faster. Americans, who are more pragmatic than Puritanical, in fact have been more lenient with Bill Clinton, both before and after the Big Lie.
While holding a low opinion of his morals, they continue to give him good grades on performance. In Europe, he would have departed for the Abruzzi by now, the continental version of Arkansas. In the United States, he is still protected by a Constitution that turns the firing of the chief executive into a long-drawn-out and traumatic process. (It has been tried only once, in 1868, and then in vain.)
Europeans don't really understand the exotic tribal habits of their cousins from across the sea -- but, then, how many Americans can fathom this daily soap opera revolving around Ken, David, Monica and Bill? If Europeans crow, they crow softly. They take pride in their worldlier ways, in their premier crus and their magnificent museums. But they know that the fate of the world, now rattled by too many crises large and small, rests on the shoulders of Mr. Big. As they watch his agony, they wish that it were over swiftly -- in one way or another.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Erik Hanson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENSORSHIP (78%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (74%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (68%); RESIGNATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JOFFE, JOSEF; LEWINSKY, MONICA S JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1998



387 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
In Seattle, Civic Pride Builds Music a Home

BYLINE: By BERNARD HOLLAND 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 13

 BODY:
Symphony orchestras in this country begin as civic gestures. If the Berlin or Czech Philharmonic defends a national culture (and is paid by a national government to do so), their American counterparts identify individual cities and report on their aspirations. Cities like this one, for example, maintain their orchestras in the same spirit that they pave streets, plant trees or open schools. European cities are old and work to keep their identities. American cities are young and are usually looking for one.
The Seattle Symphony, for all the local pride it represents, has known the downside of urban life, namely in its longstanding and seemingly intractable housing problem. Crowded with the city's opera and ballet companies into a drably functional theater left over from the 1973 World's Fair, it has regularly suffered the indignities of restricted rehearsal opportunities, compromised schedules, cramped quarters or, in some cases, no quarters at all. 
 All this makes the opening of Benaroya Hall over the weekend an important event. The 2,500-seat space, with a 540-seat recital hall attached, sits between a pair of the steeply sloping side streets that characterize Seattle's downtown. Like the art museum just below it and the proliferating apartment buildings all around, it is a component of urban renewal. Seattle residents, festively dressed for the weekend's concerts, seemed very pleased with what their city is doing.
The new hall, costing $118 million, has been financed in the usual American way, through a pool of local government funds, corporate donations and private giving. The several names attached to it are displays of gratitude, also in the typical American way.
The building itself is named for Jack Benaroya, a Seattle developer who gave $15 million. The larger of the auditoriums bears the name Taper, after the savings-and-loan family known for its cultural generosity in California. The smaller space is Nordstrom Hall, for the national retailers. The Boeing Arcade Gallery remembers the airplane maker's significant help with management for the project.
Benaroya Hall is also important for how it works. Fiscally minded builders have been leaning toward layouts adaptable to several kinds of performance, but the multipurpose has been rejected here. No adjustable walls and ceilings. No orchestra pit or wing space for musical theater. Every element is fixed in place. It is a symphony hall. The city owns Benaroya Hall, but the Seattle Symphony runs it.
Curiously, Benaroya's physical attractions are mostly hidden. The big theater sits in a kind of cocoon: a sound-insulated shoe box shape encased on the outside by thick concrete, set on a rubber undercarriage and further separated from the outside world by an air pocket on every side. It is a darkly handsome interior, though made less so by Saturday night's heightened television lights. Boxes are angled toward the stage. The surfaces are plaster, and the walls, made of African makore wood, bulge intermittently in the form of converging triangles.
The acoustics designed by Cyril Harris seem exceptionally good. One hears the different orchestra sections with clarity, and already the stage floorboards resonate nicely. Having been witness at the inauguration of several dry, dead halls in recent years, I find this one a pleasant surprise.
The smaller hall is equally alive if not more so. Chamber orchestras and new-music ensembles, at least judging from rehearsal I heard on Friday, are going to be severely tested on matters of restraint and fineness. The recital hall has an explicit sound; it promises to reward the virtuous while punishing the smallest musical miscalculation.
Benaroya Hall's exteriors make little impression; this amateur's eye, at least, found little to engage it. What one sees from the street or experiences in the inner public spaces appears functional to a fault, despite Robert Rauschenberg's large panels above the main staircase and the pair of oddly wriggling glass chandeliers by Dale Chihuly.
It is as if the designer Mark Reddington and his employers really didn't want to be noticed at all. Seattle, for all its openness to the arts, is a conservative town and may not have been in the mood for a beacon or a challenge. What it has got is a well-behaved neighbor. The performance spaces, properly lighted, are striking. What is around them reassures more than it excites.
Saturday's symphony concert, conducted by Gerard Schwarz, began with speeches and then went through a potpourri of pieces. "A Gala Celebration" by David Diamond was busy and businesslike in its first performance. Webern's hyper-Romantic "Langsamer Satz," an attractive sin of the composer's youth, profited from Mr. Schwarz's preference for slow tempos. So did most of Stravinsky's "Firebird" Suite and the excerpts from Wagner's "Gotterdammerung" after intermission.
The first bizarre moment of the evening was Henri Lazarof's "Celebration for Four Brass Choirs." Such anguished and gloom-ridden music seemed a strange way to greet Seattle's citizenry as it filed into its new hall for the first time.
The other episode of strangeness was Jessye Norman in Wagner's final scene. One forgave the lapses in pitch and the episodes of strain; the part is probably high for her voice. Less acceptable were the hooting vowels, the spit-out consonants and the popeyed exaggeration of gesture. Ms. Norman has within her a great artist. I hope she will look at what she did here on television and do some reconsidering.
The orchestra itself is decent, reliable and at times quite good. With Mr. Schwarz, its future is in excellent hands. Perhaps the real challenge Benaroya Hall offers is to these musicians. The place is a world-class establishment, a significant success. The Seattle Symphony is going to have to work hard to keep up with it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Seattle Symphony performing at the opening of Benaroya Hall. (Dan Lamont for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC; BOEING CO; SEATTLE SYMPHONY BOEING CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORDSTROM INC; BOEING CO; SEATTLE SYMPHONY

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; PHILANTHROPY; ACOUSTICS CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); THEATER (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); MUSICAL THEATER (74%); CORPORATE GIVING (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DANCE COMPANIES (69%); BALLET (69%); CHARITABLE GIVING (69%); PHILANTHROPY (64%); AIRCRAFT MFG (61%); 

PERSON: BENAROYA, JACK; HARRIS, CYRIL; HOLLAND, BERNARD JACK R HARRIS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



388 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 4; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: 'Turandot' Bids Farewell To Beijing, the 'Home' It Awed and Perplexed

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 14

 BODY:
After eight performances actually seven and two-thirds, because one was halted by rain -- the much-anticipated production of "Turandot" in an ancient temple of the Forbidden City here closed on Sunday night to a lengthy standing ovation from a nearly full house approaching 3,000.
If the sumptuous costumes, lavish set and kinetic staging by the Chinese movie director Zhang Yimou sometimes seemed to upstage the music -- conducted by Zubin Mehta with singing by major stars -- the thousands of opera fanatics who traveled here from Europe, the United States and neighboring Asian countries still got what they paid for: a grand theatrical spectacle that will be hard to match. 
 "It's beautiful," sighed Dr. Abdul Allam, a surgeon who came from Switzerland with his wife, Almut Allam, president of the Connecticut Opera in Hartford. "The grandiosity of the temple, the costumes -- it's just unbelievable," Dr. Allam said. "And the sound is excellent, with no echo."
Although few Chinese are steeped in Western opera, Mr. Zhang's interest in the project and his goal of making the opera more authentically Chinese was widely noted here. "Chinese feel proud that on their own land the Chinese culture is playing a major role on the international stage," said one typical article in the Beijing Youth Daily newspaper.
Asked how the $15 million production had gone, Michael Ecker, the Austrian impresario who pulled it together, said that "artistically, it was a great success." The financial story is less clear. Mr. Ecker said that 87 percent of the seats had been sold but that corporate sponsorships, high-end sales and donations had been lower than expected, which he blamed on the Asian financial crisis.
Mr. Ecker said that until he received an accounting from the China Performing Arts Agency, which was a co-sponsor of the production and controlled many tickets, he could not assess the financial situation, which would include revenues from television and recording rights as well as ticket sales. "I hope we'll break even," he said.
The official video and compact disc of the performance will be released on Oct. 11 by BMG Classics, Mr. Ecker said, and a film of the production is to be shown in the United States on PBS.
On the last night, a few scalpers were selling what they said were $350 tickets for $50, and they had some takers among some Westerners. The scalped tickets presumably came from the hundreds distributed free to people in the Government.
The crowds included many Chinese who obtained free tickets and who came out of curiosity. Many shared the view of one businessman who attended on Sunday and said, "I just don't understand it." Nonetheless, the scenery seemed to dazzle everyone. "Zhang Yimou is a genius," said one young Chinese office manager, who professed to not understand a single word.
Opera fans or not, some of Beijing's more affluent inhabitants saw "Turandot" as a social event not to be missed, and many celebrities from the literary and art worlds turned out, especially for one of the earlier shows that was reserved for Beijing residents at reduced rates.
In the sort of biting article rarely seen here, a popular newspaper, Southern Weekend, wrote, "The only ones who pretended any interest in hearing the performance were those media types who were mingling with the foreigners between acts."
"The tickets for 'Turandot' were expensive and hard to get," the article continued. "And for this very reason some people just had to go and see it, and what's more were certainly not going to buy their own tickets. Otherwise you wouldn't be flaunting your status and influence."
In one of the few Chinese reviews of the production, in the English-language China Daily, Li Xing wrote that the performance offered "a busy feast for the eye," and that "opera lovers had the luxury of basking in Puccini's splendid choruses and the resounding accompaniment of the orchestra under the brilliant conducting of Zubin Mehta."
"However, the production has not gone beyond creating a theatrical spectacle," Ms. Li added, saying that the audience was too busy watching all the scene changes and extras moving about to "sink deep into the arias."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A slave with mandarins in "Turandot," in Beijing's Forbidden City. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TURANDOT (OPERA)

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (77%); SWITZERLAND (72%); AUSTRIA (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (77%); SWITZERLAND (72%); AUSTRIA (56%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA OPERA (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); FILM (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); 

PERSON: MEHTA, ZUBIN; ZHANG YIMOU; ECKHOLM, ERIK; PUCCINI, GIACOMO (1858-1924) ZUBIN MEHTA (72%); ZHANG YIMOU (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



389 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Chairman Urges Rate Cut

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 14

 BODY:
The chairman of the General Motors Corporation publicly urged the Federal Reserve today to reduce interest rates, part of what is likely to be a series of such statements by top Midwestern manufacturing executives.
John F. Smith Jr., G.M.'s chairman, said that spreading economic troubles overseas could cause a recession in the United States if the Fed did not lower rates soon. Lower short-term rates, which the Fed controls, would stimulate the domestic economy and make it easier for other countries to lower their rates. 
 "The question is whether the Fed will wait until the recession is imported and then act, or act now," Mr. Smith said at a meeting of the Detroit Economic Club. "G.M. believes it should act now."
In a separate news conference, Mr. Smith said that while he did not have a specific rate cut in mind, "about a half percent would be a good move."
The Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee will meet on Sept. 29.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has always closely watched the sales and other statistics of the steel and auto industries as a gauge of the overall economy's health. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (90%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; GENERAL MOTORS CORP FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDWEST USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); 

PERSON: SMITH, JOHN F JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



390 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
30-Year Treasuries Advance On Suggestions of a Rate Cut

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose late yesterday as stocks declined from their intraday highs.
Two reports were also major factors in bond market activity. A statement from the Group of Seven nations led to speculation of global interest rate cuts to spur growth, and a regional report by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta showed that manufacturing in the southern part of the country was slowing, which could suggest the Fed might lower interest rates soon. 
 Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said yesterday's Atlanta Fed report on regional business activity was not as weak as it appeared. The index of business activity fell to a reading of minus 12.1 in August from a plus 1.2 reading in July, which had originally been reported as a reading of plus 3.4.
"The details of the report suggest that caution should be used in interpreting the decline as a reliable gauge of a sharp drop in economic activity," Ms. Schaja said.
The 30-year bond was up 4/32, to 104 4/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.22 percent, from 5.23 percent on Friday.
Market participants were also awaiting tomorrow's testimony to the House Banking Committee by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Robert E. Rubin, the Treasury Secretary, who will report on the global economic turmoil and may offer some insight about rate cuts. Few investors, however, expect a cut in interest rates before the Sept. 29 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy-making group.
"With the bond market already bracing for a very weak economy before actual business conditions seriously deteriorate," said Maury N. Harris, chief economist at Paine Webber, "the accompanying pre-emptive interest rate reductions should prevent realization of the stock market's worst fears about a weak U.S. economy."
And he added that since the Fed might start temporarily basing its rate decisions more on world financial market and economic turbulence than on just this nation's economic conditions, even a temporarily very weak domestic economy might no longer be required before the central bank trimmed the Federal funds rate that banks charge one another for overnight loans. That rate is currently 5.5 percent.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills, which some analysts described as a bit disappointing because of the stock rally:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.802	97.596	Discounted Rate	4.74%	4.75%	Coupon Yield	4.86%	4.94%	High Price	98.804	97.609	Discounted Rate	4.73%	4.73%	Coupon Yield	4.85%	4.91%	Low Price	98.804	97.594	Discounted Rate	4.74%	4.76%	Coupon Yield	4.86%	4.94%	Accepted at low price	15%	29%	Total applied for	$33,401,501	$31,366,791	Accepted	$9,288,075	$11,354,485	Noncompetitive	$1,280,764	$1,210,110	

Both issues are dated Sept. 17, 1998. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 17, 1998, and the six-month bills mature on March 18, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate at weekly auction, since May. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (84%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (57%); ATLANTA FED (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT ATLANTA FED (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



391 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Yang Shangkun, 91, Ex-China Chief, Dies

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Yang Shangkun, a former President of China and the military leader who orchestrated the crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in 1989 on Tiananmen Square, died early today, the Chinese Government announced. He was 91.
Mr. Yang was one of the last of the Old Guard of revolutionaries, including the late Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping, who fought for decades to create a Communist state and then ruled it into the 1990's, when a new generation led by the current Communist Party chief and President, Jiang Zemin, took over. 
 An eminent figure in the history of Communist China, Mr. Yang was once widely seen as a potential successor to Deng as supreme leader. But he overplayed his hand, and in 1992 Deng, who then ruled China largely from behind the scenes, edged Mr. Yang from office. Deng died last year.
After his ouster Mr. Yang remained a respected party elder, with strong ties in the military. Energetic and, up to this year, given to making his own "inspection" tours of the provinces, he was considered a thorn in the side of Mr. Jiang, with whom he had strained relations.
Mr. Jiang, who does not have a military background, has asserted his own control over the military and is now engaged in the delicate task of forcing the People's Liberation Army to give up its extensive business operations.
"Jiang Zemin is rejoicing over this death, I would surmise," said David Shambaugh, an expert on Chinese politics at George Washington University in Washington. "This removes a big obstacle to his control over the P.L.A."
An official obituary issued today called Mr. Yang "a great proletarian revolutionary, a statesman, a military strategist, a staunch Marxist, an outstanding leader of the party, the state and the people's army."
Born in 1907 to a land-owning family in the southwestern province of Sichuan, Mr. Yang joined the Communist Party at 18 and in 1926 traveled to Moscow, where he studied at Sun Yat-sen University.
A military commissar in the civil war, Mr. Yang took part in the legendary Long March of 1934-35, fleeing Chiang Kai-shek's forces. Even before 1949, when the People's Republic was founded, and until the mid-60's, Mr. Yang was one of a handful of leaders who worked closely with Mao. As head of the Central Committee General Office, he directly oversaw most important Communist Party affairs.
But by 1966, as the Cultural Revolution began, Mr. Yang, as with his longtime comrade Deng, had fallen from favor with Mao. He was branded a counterrevolutionary and, according to the obituary issued today by the official New China News Agency, he spent 12 years in prison.
In 1978, Mr. Yang and Deng both regained power. In the next few years, as Deng began to gain top authority and set the country on a path of economic change, Mr. Yang was put in charge of shrinking and modernizing the huge backward army. He was given the rank of general. In 1982 he was appointed to the party's powerful Politburo. In 1988, Mr. Yang was given the prestigious if largely ceremonial title of President. But his power lay in his position as vice chairman of the central military commission.
Many younger Chinese remember Mr. Yang from May 1989, when he appeared on television along with Prime Minister Li Peng to denounce what he called anarchy in Beijing, where student demonstrators had occupied Tiananmen Square, and to defend the imposition of martial law. Deng, who had decided that force had to quell the democracy movement, called on Mr. Yang to mobilize the army and plan the operation, which resulted in the killing of hundreds of students and others on June 4 and subsequent days.
Mr. Yang and his younger half brother, Yang Baibing, then purged the army of officers who had failed to support the operations properly. In the years after 1989, Mr. Yang and his half brother spurred growing suspicion and resentment among other military elders as they packed the army's upper ranks with supporters. Many senior leaders felt that the "Yang family clique" was trying to dominate the army, if not positioning itself to rule when the ailing Deng died, Mr. Shambaugh said. Deng decided that he had to force Mr. Yang to give up his posts. Yang Baibing was also forced off the military commission, although he remained at the Politburo until last year.
As is common with Chinese leaders, little is known of Mr. Yang's personal life. His wife, Li Bozhao, who had also been in the Long March, died in 1985. He is believed to be survived by at least one son.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Yang Shankun, left, and Jiang Zemin at a party congress in 1992. Mr. Yang, who was in the Long March and who was one of the last of the Old Guard revolutionaries, had uneasy relations with Mr. Jiang. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

COMPANY: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); 

PERSON: YANG SHANGKUN; ECKHOLM, ERIK JIANG ZEMIN (71%); DENG XIAOPING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



392 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Rise Predicted in Health-Care Spending in Next Decade

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14

 BODY:
After five years of relatively slow growth, total spending on health care in the United States will climb briskly over the next decade, doubling by 2007, Federal officials said today.
And in a reversal of recent trends, they said, private spending will grow faster than public outlays. 
 In a new report, the Department of Health and Human Services predicted that health spending would rise to $2.1 trillion in 2007, from slightly more than $1 trillion last year.
The department said health care would account for a growing share of the nation's total output: 16.6 percent of the gross domestic product in 2007, as against 13.4 percent last year.
Sheila Smith, the main author of the report, published today in the journal Health Affairs, said the growth in per capita health spending, after adjusting for inflation, would "be driven almost entirely by rising expenditures in the private rather than the public sector."
Recent actions by Congress, especially passage of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, are slowing the growth of Medicare and Medicaid, the health programs for the elderly and the poor.
But the authors of the new study foresee "a rebound" in private health care spending, mainly because of "increases in the use and intensity of services," rather than price increases.
Government economists predict that private health insurance premiums will rise an average of 7 percent to 8 percent a year in the coming decade, much more than in the last few years. But the Congressional Budget Office and some private experts on employee benefits, like Jon R. Gabel of KPMG Peat Marwick, say the increases will be more modest.
"Since 1995, increases in premiums have been less than the increase in the gross domestic product," Mr. Gabel said, and he expects premiums to rise 4 percent to 5 percent a year in the coming decade.
The Federal study says that increases in real per capita income over the next decade will increase the demand for health care services, because consumers will have more to spend on health care. But it says that health maintenance organizations and other forms of managed care "will play a smaller role" in controlling costs than they have in recent years.
Eighty-five percent of the people with employer-sponsored health insurance are already in some type of managed care. And the authors say that H.M.O.'s do not save money for Medicare because the payment rates are based on what is paid in Medicare's traditional fee-for-service program.
The number of people without health insurance has been increasing by 1 million a year and now exceeds 41 million. In the next few years, the report says, the number of uninsured may grow more slowly, as more employers offer health benefits to attract workers at a time of very low unemployment.
But the authors said that the trend of recent years would eventually resume, so that a larger proportion of Americans would be uninsured.
Population growth accounts for a relatively small share of the increase in total health spending. The Government predicts that national health spending will average $7,100 for each American in 2007, up from $3,904 last year.
In the last five years, from 1992 to 1997, public spending on health care rose twice as fast as private spending: 7.4 percent a year, as against 3.7 percent a year.
But in the next five years, from 1997 to 2002, private health spending will rise faster than public spending (7 percent a year, as against 5.9 percent a year), the department predicts.
The Government foresees sharp increases in the growth of spending for doctors' services and prescription drugs in the next five years. But it predicts that spending for nursing homes and home health care will grow slower than in recent years.
From 1998 to 2000, the report said, "Medicare spending for inpatient hospital services is expected to grow at the lowest rate in the program's history -- an average of 3 percent a year, compared with 8.2 percent a year for 1993-1996."
Many doctors have harshly criticized H.M.O.'s, but the report says that managed care will be responsible for much of the increase in spending on doctors' services, since H.M.O.'s substitute outpatient doctors' services for hospital care when possible.
Spending for doctors' services rose an average of 3.6 percent a year from 1992 to 1997, but will rise an average of 7.3 percent a year in the coming decade, the Government predicts.
Ms. Smith, the main author of the report, said that only some of the new spending would show up as an increase in doctors' incomes. Many doctors will, in effect, have to do more work. The total volume of doctors' services will increase, as consumers demand more access to medical specialists, free of the constraints imposed by the most restrictive H.M.O.'s, she said.
The report said increases in drug prices had been "relatively restrained" since 1993. But the Department of Health and Human Services said, "Expenditures for drugs are expected to grow rapidly through 2007 as more prescriptions are written and the mix of prescriptions shifts to more expensive drugs."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT (US) KPMG LLP (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT (US) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; FORECASTS HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); MEDICARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); WRITERS (88%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (86%); HEALTH CARE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); ELDER HEALTH (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); EMPLOYMENT (64%); MEDICAID (58%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT SHEILA SMITH (62%); JON R GABEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



393 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Hilton Says Its Earnings Will Fall Short

BYLINE: Dow Jones 

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Sept. 14

 BODY:
The Hilton Hotels Corporation said today that its third-quarter earnings would fall short of analysts' expectations and figures a year earlier, in part because the Asian financial crisis had kept overseas travelers from its hotels in Hawaii and California.
Hilton said earnings for the quarter ending Sept. 30 would be in the low 30-cents-a-share range. A First Call Corporation survey of 14 analysts had predicted earnings of 38 cents a share for the quarter. Hilton earned $94 million, or 35 cents a diluted share, in the period a year earlier.. 
 Hilton attributed the lower-than-expected earnings to softness at its Honolulu and San Francisco hotels because of the continuing Asian crisis. It also cited lower management fee income from international properties, particularly the Conrad International Hong Kong.
The hotel and gaming company, based in Beverly Hills, said it had also won less than usual at gambling tables at Bally's Park Place in Atlantic City, and that a sluggish Las Vegas, Nev., market, had also hurt earnings
Hilton expects fourth-quarter operating results to be in line with company and Wall Street expectations of 31 cents a share.
Today, shares of Hilton Hotels fell 62.5 cents, to $18.50, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HLT (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (98%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (98%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HILTON HOTELS CORP HILTON WORLDWIDE (98%); FIRST CALL CORP (72%); BALLY'S PARK PLACE INC (69%); CONRAD INTERNATIONAL HONG KONG HOTEL (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HILTON HOTELS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); GAMING (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



394 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Phone Deal in Afghanistan Catches Many by Surprise

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
A privately owned telephone company in New Jersey has signed a $240 million contract to build a cellular telephone system for the Taliban, the Islamic fundamentalists who control most of Afghanistan and who the White House says are harboring Osama bin Laden, the suspected mastermind of the embassy bombings in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, last month.
Telephone Systems International of Parsippany, N.J., said it would start work in a few weeks and that within two years at least one million telephones would be available in 15 cities in Afghanistan, which has been so ravaged by two decades of war that only about 26,000 lines remain from the antiquated telephone system that the Russians built in Kabul, the capital. 
 The system will be built using equipment from Motorola, AT&T, Nokia and Ericsson, said Gary Breshinsky, who identified himself as one of three owners of the company. A second owner is Ehsan Bayat, an Afghani who lives in Queens. Mr. Breshinsky declined to name the third owner.
There are no Federal restrictions on American companies doing business with the Taliban, officials at the Commerce, State, Treasury and Justice Departments said yesterday.
The White House said it was unaware of the deal but looked on it favorably as a means to ease the tight controls the Taliban have placed on access to the rest of the world.
"Anything that increases the Afghani people's access to information, ideas and the global economy is a good thing," said David Leavy, the spokesman for the National Security Council.
Export of advanced technology with potential military applications requires an export license from the Commerce Department if the equipment is built by an American company or uses American technology, a Commerce Department official said.
Mr. Breshinsky said no export licenses would be needed for the cellular system his company would build based on the GSM system used for cellular phones in most countries outside the United States.
"This is all simple technology," said Mr. Breshinsky, who said other companies he owns have built similar systems since 1981 in Malaysia, China and parts of Africa.
He said the system would give Afghani users direct dial access to the rest of the world and access to the Internet. He said the Taliban were requiring the use of software to block anti-Taliban Web sites "and what one of them called smut."
The Taliban representative in New York, Noorullah Zadran, said the contract was signed Sept. 2 at the Inter-Continental Hotel in Kabul.
"This contract contains an equal opportunity provision under which women can work side-by-side with men for the same pay," Mr. Zadran said, which he said showed that the Taliban were not the enemies of women.
Mr. Breshinsky said it took 51 days to negotiate the contract, which was first disclosed in reports from Kabul on Sept. 2 by Reuters and The Associated Press. Those reports received so little attention that yesterday none of the Federal officials interviewed said they had heard of the contract or the company the Taliban hired to build the system and run it for 20 years.
Telephone Systems International was incorporated in June, specifically to build a cellular telephone system for the Taliban, Mr. Breshinsky said.
Mr. Breshinsky and Mr. Zadran said Motorola would be the main supplier of equipment. But a spokeswoman for Motorola, Margot Brown, said the statements by Mr. Breshinsky and Mr. Zadran about using Motorola technology "are not true."
"We have not signed any contracts in Kabul and we have never heard of a company called Telephone Systems International," she said.
Mr. Breshinsky would not say what he had done for a living before 1981 and he declined to identify who would finance the system. He said that finding paying customers in Afghanistan would not be a problem and estimated that five million people would want, and be able to afford, telephones. "It's the Government that doesn't have the money," he said. "The people have money -- the longer they have been free and away from the Soviets the more cash they have and walk around with, a lot more cash than I ever carry." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); 

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); TELEPHONE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL; MOTOROLA INC; AT&T CORP; NOKIA OY AB; ERICSSON AB MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); TELEPHONE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL; MOTOROLA INC; AT&T CORP; NOKIA OY AB; ERICSSON AB US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN; KENYA; TANZANIA; AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE TALIBAN (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (90%); RELIGION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (87%); EXPORT CONTROLS (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); GLOBAL SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; BRESHINSKY, GARY; BAYAT, EHSAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



395 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Assembly Threatens End To All Inspection Cooperation

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 14

 BODY:
The Iraqi Parliament, which diplomats often consider an advance-warning system on Baghdad's policy, threatened today to stop all remaining cooperation with a United Nations arms inspection system.
In a vote after a long session, the 250-member National Assembly, dominated by President Saddam Hussein's Baath Party, demanded that the Security Council reverse its decision last week to stop all reviews of sanctions until Iraq allows on-site inspections to resume. Without sanctions reviews, Iraq can never hope to escape from an embargo imposed in 1990 after its invasion of Kuwait. 
 If the Council does not resume reviews, Parliament's Speaker said in a statement after the session, the assembly would ask the Government "to cut all relations with the United Nations Special Commission and not cooperate with it in any way."
In Washington, the State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, said the United States would ask the Security Council to take further steps against Iraq if it suspended the activities of all weapons inspectors.
"This would constitute yet another flagrant violation of U.N. Security Council resolutions and a direct challenge to the authority of the Council," he said at a daily briefing. "In that event, the Council would have to consider further action."
The Special Commission, known as Unscom, is in charge of dismantling prohibited Iraqi weapons systems and insuring that the country does not have the means to rebuild them. Stopped by Iraq on Aug. 5 from making on-site inspections, the commission's experts based in Baghdad are able to monitor Iraqi activities with a sophisticated video cameras and air, water and soil sampling devices.
But the Iraqis have already barred some follow-up inspections by monitors from both the Special Commission, which keeps track of biological, chemical and missile systems, and the International Atomic Energy Agency, which watches nuclear issues, despite the requirement that long-term monitoring be allowed to continue, not only now but also after sanctions are lifted in the future.
Iraq also said on Aug. 5 that what monitoring goes on will be permitted only as an "interim" gesture, pending Security Council action. The Council's resolution last week was that action.
Some experts have always assumed that Iraq would dismantle the long-term monitoring system at some point, or render it minimally useful to the inspectors over the long term. United Nations officials say unannounced or short-notice inspections are really the heart of any monitoring system, however. Without the ability to follow suspicions, the value of the commission's work is very much diminished.
Unscom has about 125 experts in Iraq, including 40 Chilean helicopter pilots and crews used for aerial inspections. No United Nations staff are armed. Their security is provided entirely by the Iraqis.
In Baghdad today the National Assembly also renewed threats against British and American inspectors, in what is apparently another attempt to divide Security Council opinion by provoking Washington and London.
A year ago Iraq provoked a crisis by expelling all American inspectors, and the commission chairman, Richard Butler of Australia, withdrew his team for several weeks.
Apart from the American-sponsored Council resolution last week suspending sanctions reviews, a decision by the United States to begin broadcasting Radio Free Iraq into the country in Arabic from Europe has upset the Iraqi leadership.
Last week David G. Newton, an American Ambassador to Iraq from 1984 to 1988, was selected to head the new service, which hopes to broadcast from Prague, pending agreement from the Czech Government. Iraq has asked the Czech Government not to permit the broadcasts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Iraqi National Assembly voting in Baghdad yesterday to end all cooperation with weapons inspectors unless the Security Council reverses last week's decision on sanctions reviews. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); QUALITY CONTROL (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (62%); HELICOPTERS (50%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



396 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: American Leaving U.N. Development Post

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 14

 BODY:
The highest-ranking American in the United Nations system, James Gustave Speth, administrator of the United Nations Development Program, said today that he will be leaving the organization next summer.
European Union nations are expected to campaign for the job, which has traditionally been held by an American. Among Europeans, there is growing resentment against the United States, which owes about $1.5 billion in unpaid assessments, while Europe shoulders nearly half the organization's budget. 
 The position is one of several that will open to international competition in the next few years.
Mr. Speth, a founder of the World Resources Institute in Washington and its president when he was appointed to the development agency in 1993, will join Yale University as dean of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies.
Under Mr. Speth's tenure, the agency expanded its work significantly, from development projects in poor countries to broad involvement in fostering better government. The organization also encouraged private enterprise in countries where economies were stagnant because of extensive government control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (91%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (57%); WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (91%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (57%); WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); BUDGETS (87%); APPOINTMENTS (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (66%); 

PERSON: SPETH, JAMES JAMES GUSTAVE SPETH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



397 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Brazilian Stocks Rebound, And Panic Eases Somewhat

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Sept. 14

 BODY:
The Brazilian stock market appeared to regain equilibrium after dizzying losses last week, shored up by higher interest rates, Government stock purchases and suggestions that the International Monetary Fund would step in to prevent disaster.
But without a Government program to reduce the swollen budget deficit, the Brazilian economy appears caught in a race against time, pitting investors' nervousness toward emerging markets against the approach of national elections on Oct. 4. 
 In Sao Paulo, the benchmark Bovespa index closed up 7.79 percent today, after a rise of 13.39 percent on Friday. Given a loss of 15.82 percent Thursday and persistent, lesser losses earlier, Friday's and today's bounces up were encouraging.
But the flow of dollars out of the country continued, with some $1.6 billion in cash reserves leaving on Friday. By today, that had slowed, with market informants saying that $410 million had left foreign exchange coffers by 5 P.M.
"Certainly it's a reprieve, but a clear indication of turning the corner would embody structural fiscal reforms as well as stabilization in the international arena," said Lawrence Goodman, chief economist at Santander Investment. Those, he said, were unlikely before President Fernando Henrique Cardoso runs for re-election next month. "Don't hold your breath," Mr. Goodman remarked.
Late Thursday, the central bank increased the ceiling on interest rates to 49.75 percent from 29.75 percent, the second rise in less than 10 days. The next day, I.M.F. officials said that as much as $15 billion could be made available for Brazil in an emergency. While Brazilian officials had not formally requested such aid, the offer was seen as insurance against a currency devaluation or default, and recognition that Brazil's economy, with $27 billion in loans from United States banks, was too important for Washington to do nothing.
"People are reducing the probabilities of a default and a major devaluation," said Edmar Bacha, president of BBA Securities. "Foreign investors were taken by panic in Russia, and they don't want to be taken by surprise again."
"It's not that the economy has turned the corner, but there's a reversal as people reassess the probability of failure versus the probability of success," Mr. Bacha added.
In addition, investment analysts said, the Government-run National Bank for Economic and Social Development buoyed stocks on Friday by buying up a larger-than-average volume of shares.
A spokeswoman for the bank declined to provide figures, but said the purchases had not been intended to raise stock prices. "We're always buying and selling," she said. "What happened was simply that the price dropped so low that it was a good time to buy. When the price goes up, we'll sell."
In the short term, the steps appeared to calm panic. On the black market, dollars were selling for 1.35 reais today, down from 1.45 on Thursday. In currency market trading late today, the dollar sold just under 1.18 reais.
Some voices have risen here suggesting that President Cardoso should match the promises of help with word of specific fiscal changes that his Government will seek from Congress after the elections. Mr. Cardoso, whose main opponent in the race, Luis Inacio Lula da Silva of the leftist Workers Party, has tried to play down the extent of changes that will be necessary.
Ricardo Steinbruch, president of the Vicunha textile group, the second largest in the country, said the President feared that disclosing post-election austerity measures now would "become ammunition for the other side."
So far, industry has supported the measures that Mr. Cardoso has ventured to take, despite the difficulty that high interest rates represent. Official unemployment is expected to reach 10 percent next year, double last year's level, and expectations of growth have slowed to 1 to 2 percent for this year and next.
"Preserving the victories gained through stability and the transformations that flow from it have to be the priority of the Government and of society as a whole," said Arthur Joao Donato, acting president of the National Confederation of Industry.
But Mr. Donato added that administrative, social security and tax reform would have to come soon. If the higher interest rates prevail through December, they will drive up public debt by $20 billion. Even before the increases, the deficit was expected to reach 8 percent of the gross national product by year's end.
The President does appear to have room for a more forceful stance. According to polls, the economic turbulence has only bolstered Mr. Cardoso's standing. Voters largely consider him the candidate best equipped to confront economic uncertainty, and say they would accept Government cutbacks to support the currency.
The Real Plan, named for the new currency it introduced, has resulted in nominal inflation, compared with 2,400 percent at its peak.
In the most recent survey last week, 47 percent of Brazilians said they would vote for Mr. Cardoso, up from 44 percent two weeks ago. Mr. da Silva's standing in the same period dropped to 23 percent from 25 percent.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Devaluation by Ecuador
QUITO, Ecuador, Sept. 14 (Agence France-Presse) -- Ecuador devalued its currency, the sucre, by 15 percent today, a central bank official said, becoming the second Latin American nation to succumb to pressures from international monetary turmoil. Colombia took a similar step early this month.
Also today, Moody's Investors Service downgraded the country ceiling for Ecuador's foreign-currency bonds and notes to B-3, and the ceiling for long-term foreign-currency bank deposits to Caa-2. The ratings agency said the steps reflected the combined effects of a worsening foreign environment and increasing pressure on the nation's currency reserves.
Brazilian and Venezuelan debt ratings have also been downgraded recently.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Brazilian officials try to strike a balance between financial turmoil and unpopular austerity measures before elections, unemployment is expected to rise. In Sao Paulo, job offers on placards were eagerly read. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: STD (NYSE) (55%); BSC (LIS) (55%); BNC (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND BOLSA DE VALORES DE SAO PAULO (BOVESPA) (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); CURRENCIES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); FOREIGN LENDING (69%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



398 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE PRESIDENT;
In New York, Solace and Signs of Opposition for the Man of the Moment at the Moment

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD 

 BODY:
In a day of respite from the intense debate going on in Washington, President Clinton came to New York yesterday in pursuit of money and perhaps solace, and found some of both.
Making his first trip since the release of the Starr report and accompanied by his wife, Hillary, Mr. Clinton gave a speech on the global economy before a foreign policy group and circulated at three crowded Democratic fund-raisers, including an evening performance of "The Lion King." Among a populace long supportive of him, he was largely greeted with encouragement to proceed with his job, though he also encountered his share of dissidents. 
 In a city in which Presidential visits are humdrum and often disdained for the gridlock they add to already car-choked streets, there was keener interest than usual in Mr. Clinton's itinerary in the wake of the scathing report of the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr. Here was a chance to glimpse the man of the moment at the moment.
"I don't like what he did, but I'm not angry at him," said Mary Kane, a medical administrator trying to catch a view of the President as he arrived for his speech yesterday morning on East 68th Street, down the block from where she works. "I'd love to see him. I'd tell him, 'Good luck and I wish you well.' "
Throughout a day that the Democratic Party said raised more than $4 million, there seemed to be more affirmation than antipathy among hundreds who lined the avenues as Mr. Clinton's motorcade wound its way from a speech at the Council on Foreign Relations on 68th Street and Park Avenue to the trio of fund-raisers, before a late-night return to Washington.
People pressed against police sawhorses along Park Avenue clapped and waved as he proceeded to lunch on 60th Street. There were only a handful of pickets. One man, who acknowledged being a veteran Clinton foe, displayed a white banner with "Resign" inscribed in red, while two women held up their own sign saying, "Resign Now." In the back seat, Mr. Clinton waved and smiled to the onlookers.
"I don't think what he did was necessarily awful," said Adam Gana, a freshman at Hunter College, which is just across from where the President was speaking. "I think maybe he should have been a little more considerate and not lied. But I like the President. I don't think he's a bad guy. If I could get a word with him, I'd ask him about the universal health coverage rather than the stupid affairs he's had."
Later on, as Mr. Clinton passed down Fifth Avenue on the way to the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, people were lined seven and eight deep for 10 blocks, craning for a look at him, and some waited patiently for more than an hour. When he approached the hotel, about half of the crowd cheered and the other half booed.
Some called for his resignation. "I feel he should resign," said Ivan Richards, 30, a Manhattan therapist. "It's put a stop on our country. We can't get anything done."
Others wanted him to fight on. "I'm out here because it's still exciting to see the President," said Andrea DeMaso, 25, a marketing executive from Dix Hills, N.Y. "I think he's doing a good job and has only done what all the Presidents before him have done."
At his various stops, Mr. Clinton sidestepped any discussion of the Lewinsky matter. His morning speech was before about 150 people, who were politely warm but not especially enthusiastic or all that friendly. Some council members who had been invited stayed away, council members said, because they did not want to shake the President's hand.
Many who did come were reading newspaper coverage of the Lewinsky matter and then hastily tucked the papers away when word came that the President had arrived. Theodore C. Sorensen, who attended the speech, summed up the feelings of many by saying that if Mr. Clinton lied under oath, it was "inexcusable." But, Mr. Sorensen said, "it does not amount to high crimes and misdemeanors."
Some others, who insisted on anonymity, were more critical and said that Mr. Clinton's conduct had diminished the Presidency and that they hoped he would resign.
Mr. Clinton took no questions, and when a reporter twice shouted to him whether he would accept censure from Congress, Mr. Clinton ignored him.
At a $50,000-a-couple fund-raising luncheon on Fifth Avenue, Mr. Clinton did allude to the latest events when he said, "The adversity of the moment, I think, has led us to this record turnout. Why? Because people made a decision and they thought they were needed and they stood up."
The luncheon was held in the two-story penthouse of Denise Rich, a socialite, philanthropist and lyricist, whose ex-husband, Marc Rich, is a fugitive commodities trader who fled the country rather than face prosecution in a tax case. Sixty couples filled tables arranged in three rooms, and others were turned away because of lack of space. Mr. Clinton had his grilled sea bass in a different room from his wife. Vice President Al Gore and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, attended, though Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan was the solitary New York politician to show up.
John Catsimatidis, chief executive of the Red Apple Group, said donors made their positions clear to party leaders at a recent luncheon in New York City.
"I think the point was made very clearly to the senators and the Congressmen there that New Yorkers feel very strongly about the President, and support him, and any Congressman who won't support him, don't come back to New York for money," Mr. Catsimatidis said. "If you can't stand up next to your friend, who you've called a friend for the last few years, then you don't deserve our support."
In his introduction, Steve Grossman, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said, "Mr. President, it seems to me that you have demonstrated, at least in my adult lifetime, a higher commitment to the kind of moral leadership that I value in public service and public policy than any other person I've ever met."
Mr. Clinton, in his brief remarks, said, "I know that I speak for Hillary when I say we thank you for your personal friendship and support. It means more now than ever, and we'll never forget it."
In the afternoon, Mr. Clinton stopped at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, on Park Avenue, the lodging choice of Presidents since the days of Hoover, where he had a rest break before his evening appearances. He called Sammy Sosa and congratulated the Chicago Cubs outfielder on matching Mark McGwire's record 62 home runs.
Members of the dignitary-hardened hotel staff said there was more excitement than customary given recent news developments.
"I have no problem with him being here," said Geraldine Grays, a lobby attendant polishing the brass banisters. "Just leave him alone. Let him do the job. I know some of the guests said he should be seen today. He needs all the support he can get."
James Dowd, a doorman on the Park Avenue entrance, said this time he was hearing more Presidential jokes than usual, most risque.
In the evening, Mr. Clinton and his wife dined with 400 people who had paid $10,000 a plate at the Supper Club, a dinner and dancing establishment on West 47th Street. The President's arrival interrupted guests trying to reach their rooms at the Hotel Edison next door to the club. Police officers lined them up and admitted them two at a time.
Several New York politicians put in appearances at the dinner, including Mark Green, Geraldine A. Ferraro and Charles E. Schumer, the three Democratic candidates for Senate.
People began arriving for the dinner at 4:30, though the Clintons, accompanied by the Gores, did not get there until about 6:45. By then, most of the crowd had finished their buffet meals. The donors, including celebrities like Christie Brinkley, Roberta Flack and Kevin Spacey, applauded Mrs. Clinton for a full 25 seconds. Mr. Clinton received a briefer, though equally hearty, welcome. In addressing the audience, Mrs. Clinton said of the President, "He wakes up and worries about what he can do to help the American people."
Afterward, the Clintons watched the "The Lion King" at the New Amsterdam Theater on Times Square in the company of 1,700 people who had bought tickets at prices from $350 to $1,000.
When the Presidential party arrived, there was a standing ovation, and someone shouted, "We love you, Bill and Hillary."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A crowd with signs demanding President Clinton's resignation greeted Mr. Clinton and the First Lady last night outside the New Amsterdam Theater on 42d Street in New York. (J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times); Hillary Rodham Clinton last night with Senator Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey at a fund-raiser at the Supper Club on West 47th Street. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASTORIA HOTEL (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FUNDRAISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); ETHICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KLEINFIELD, N R; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



399 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2157 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Speech on World Economies: '8 Months Later the Clouds Are Closer'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Clinton's speech yesterday in New York to the Council on Foreign Relations, as transcribed by the Federal News Service, a transcription company:
This is the biggest financial challenge facing the world in a half century, and the United States has an absolutely inescapable obligation to lead and to lead in a way that's consistent with our values, and our obligation to see that what we're doing helps lift the lives of ordinary people, here at home and all around the world. 
 Now the Council on Foreign Relations has always stood for political and economic freedom, since right after World War I. And I think one of the things that has impacted all of us . . . is that for the last decade the growth of freedom around the world -- with more than half the people in the world living under governments of their own choosing, more than half the villages, the one million villages in China now even electing their own governments, and this sweeping replacement of command-and-control economies by market economies -- I think it seems to have happened so easily, so effortlessly, so inexorably that I think, we think, the trend is inevitable and irreversible.
But if you consider today's economic difficulties, disruptions and plain old deep personal disappointments of -- now -- tens of millions of people around the world, it is clear to me that there is now a stark challenge not only to economic freedom, but, if unaddressed, a challenge that could stem the rising tide of political liberty, as well.
Obviously we have profound interests here. It is a great irony that we are at a moment of unsurpassed economic strength at a time of such turmoil in the world economy. We, I think, all of us in this room, know that our future prosperity depends upon whether we can, with others, restore confidence, manage change, stabilize the financial system and spur robust global growth.
For most of the last 30 years the United States and the rest of the world has been preoccupied by inflation, for reasons that all of you here know all too well.
And it was a good thing to be preoccupied with. Today the low and stable inflation we enjoy has been critical to our economic health, and low inflation has also contributed to that of many other nations, as well.
But clearly the balance of risks has now shifted, with a full quarter of the world's population living in countries with declining economic growth or negative economic growth.
Therefore, I believe the industrial world's chief priority today plainly is to spur growth. It seems to me there are six immediate steps we should take to help contain the current financial turmoil around the world and then two long-term projects in which we must be involved.
To take the immediate first, we must work with Japan, Europe and other nations to spur growth.
Second, we will expand our efforts to enable viable businesses in Asia to emerge from crippling debt burdens, so they can once again contribute to growth and job creation.
Third, we've asked the World Bank to double its support for the social safety net in Asia, to help people who are innocent victims of financial turmoil.
Fourth, we'll urge the major industrial economies to stand ready to use the $15 billion in I.M.F. emergency funds to help stop the financial contagion from spreading to Latin America and elsewhere.
Fifth, our Ex-Im Bank, under the leadership of Jim Harmon, will intensify its effort to generate economic activity in the developing world immediately, in the next three months.
And sixth, Congress must live up to its responsibility for continued prosperity by meeting our obligations to the International Monetary Fund. . . .
Above all, we must accelerate our efforts to reform the international financial system. Today, I have asked Secretary Rubin and Federal Reserve Board Chairman Greenspan to convene a major meeting of their counterparts within the next 30 days to recommend ways to adapt the international financial architecture to the 21st century. . . .
The global economy brought a lot of that prosperity to us. And now fast-moving currents have brought or aggravated problems in Russia and Asia. They threaten emerging economies from Latin America to South Africa. With a quarter of the world's population in declining growth, we must recognize what Chairman Greenspan said the other day, "We cannot forever be an oasis of prosperity."
Growth at home depends upon growth abroad. A full 30 percent of our growth just since I became President has been due to our expanding positive involvement in the global economy. That's why ordinary Americans should care if Asia or Russia or South America is on solid economic footing.
These people are our customers. With one-third of the growth of our economy coming from exports, much of it from emerging markets, we know that those markets will falter as their economies flatten. . . . We have seen that our stock market can react. . . .
These nations are also our competitors. . . . When their currencies drop precipitously the prices of their goods fall. They can undercut the sales of our own goods here at home that are otherwise profitable, dramatically increasing our trade deficit under circumstances that could cause the American people to turn away from open trade toward protectionism in a way that has terrific negative consequences long term for our global growth objectives.
Finally these nations are our friends, our allies and our security partners. Where economic turmoil plunges millions into sudden poverty and disrupts and orients the lives of ordinary people, the risks of political and social instability and of a turn from democracy clearly rise.
Just look at Russia. Russia is facing an economic crisis that threatens the extraordinary progress the Russian people have made in just seven years, building a new society from the ground up. The ruble and the stock market have plummeted. Banks are weak. Tax collections have slowed. The Government has trouble paying its debts and its salaries. . . .
Amid such political uncertainty and economic difficulty, some now talk of abandoning the path of reform and returning to policies of the past, even policies that have already failed.
At worst adversity in Russia could affect not only the Russian economy and prospects for our economic cooperation. At worst it can have an impact on our cooperation with Russia on nuclear disarmament, on fighting terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction, on standing together for peace from the Balkans to the Middle East. . . .
Never has there been a more important moment to set a clear direction for the future, to affirm the commitment of Russia to democracy and to free markets and to take decisive steps to stabilize the economy and restore investor confidence. But if Russia is willing to take these steps we must do everything we can to provide support to them, because again I say as long as ordinary people don't feel any benefits from this in the end it's going to be difficult to sustain the direction we think the world should take.
On the other hand, we need to be honest with Russia and everyone else. No nation, rich or poor, democratic or authoritarian, can escape the fundamental economic imperatives of the global market. . . .
Regardless of what changes in policies or institutions may be warranted we have to say we'll only be able to help those countries who are willing to help themselves.
If a nation chooses to print money indiscriminately, to wink at cronyism or corruption, to hide bad loans and protect corrupt or inefficient banks, then investors, foreign and domestic, sooner or later will withdraw their investments, with consequences both swift and severe. That is why we support the fundamental approach of the International Monetary Fund to extend assistance only when nations have taken responsibility. . . .
But it is difficult to see how any actions of the world community can be successful in restoring growth in Asia in the absence of the restoration of growth in Japan, which would enable Japan to lead the region out of its present condition. . . .
We all know all the forces that seem to be working against these developments in Japan. But I would remind you that this is a very strong sophisticated nation full of people of knowledge and enormous achievement. . . .
The human cost of Asia's collapse is only now being fully felt. Recent press reports have described an entire generation working its way into the middle class over 25 years, then being plummeted into poverty within a matter of months.
The stories are heartbreaking, doctors and nurses forced to live in the lobby of a closed hospital, middle-class families who owned their own homes, sent their children to college, traveled abroad, now living by selling their possessions. It is in our interest to help these nations and these people recover. They will become once again our great markets and our great partners. It is also the right thing to do. . . .
We're going to have to do more to restore Asian growth.
We must work to lift the weight of private sector debt that has frozen the Asian economies. Today, I'm asking Secretary Rubin to work with other financial authorities and international economic institutions to enhance efforts to explore comprehensive plans to help Asian corporations emerge from massive debt where individual firms have been swept under by systemic national economic problems rather than their own errors. We need to get credit flowing again. . . .
Asian businesses need assistance, but so do millions of Asian families. We must do more to establish an adequate social safety net in recovering nations. Wrenching economic transition without an adequate social safety net can sacrifice lives in the name of economic theory and, I might add, can generate thereby so much resistance that reform grinds to a halt. . . .
With our support the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank have started to deal with these challenges. But they have to expand their efforts. There is simply not enough being done. I ask them to double their aid through an expanded social-compact initiative focusing on job assistance, basic needs and economic transition, on children and the elderly, on groups most vulnerable to economic change. . . .
We have to be ready to respond immediately and with financial force, if necessary, to the currency crisis if it spreads, especially if it threatens the economies of Latin America, where nations have struggled to make progress, to do the right thing, only to find themselves buffeted by economic storms outside their control.
Therefore, the major economies should stand ready to activate the $15 billion now in the emergency funds of the I.M.F., the General Agreement to Borrow, to insure that the I.M.F. continues to support reform and fight economic contagion. . . .
America simply must meet its own obligations to the International Monetary Fund. After a year of financial firefighting the I.M.F.'s resources are badly strained. Every day we don't act we undermine the confidence the world badly needs, that we are trying to restore. Congress simply must assume its responsibility for our leadership in the economy.
In my State of the Union address I said it was better to prepare for a storm when the skies were clear than when the clouds were overhead. Well, eight months later the clouds are closer, and you can nearly hear the thunder. . . .
Let me put this as plainly as I can. Failure by this Congress to pay our dues to the I.M.F. will put our own prosperity at risk. Failure to act will send a sharp signal, at a time of economic challenge, our lawmakers were unwilling to protect our workers, our businesses, our farmers from the risk of global economic change and unwilling to maintain our leadership in building a global economic system that has benefited us more than any other nation. . . .
We clearly have it within our means, if we do the right things, to lift billions and billions of people around the world into a global middle class and into participation in global democracy and genuine efforts toward peace and reconciliation. That is a possibility. But recent event show it is not a certainty.
At this moment, therefore, the United States is called upon once again to lead, to organize the forces of a committed world, to challenge the unruly energies of the global economy into positive avenues to advance our interests, reinforce our values, enhance our security.
In this room I think it is not too simple to say we know what to do. The World War II generation did it for us 50 years ago. Now it is time for us to rise to our responsibility, as America has been called upon to do so often so many times in the past. We can, if we do that, redeem the promise of the global economy and strengthen our own nation for a new century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); TRENDS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); WORLD WAR I (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



400 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Protesters Battle Troops in Albanian Capital

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: TIRANA, Albania, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Supporters of former President Sali Berisha seized Government buildings today in the Albanian capital, Tirana, and demanded that the Government resign. Government forces launched a counterattack hours later and recovered the buildings, a Government spokesman said.
Artan Bizhga, an Interior Ministry spokesman, said the Parliament building and the offices of Prime Minister Fatos Nano were back in Government hands. He said that three Berisha supporters had been killed and 14 wounded in the counterattack. 
 Shortly afterward, special police units recaptured Government television. A member of the television's board of directors appeared on camera and urged workers who had fled to return.
The shooting began in Tirana after protesters carried the bodies of a slain politician and two others to Mr. Nano's office. The opposition blames him for the deaths.
A daylong insurrection followed in which gunmen seized Government television, the Parliament and at least four Government tanks. At one point, thousands of people milled about central Skanderbeg Square, firing weapons in the air.
At least three people were wounded in front of Mr. Nano's office; a complete count of casualties was impossible.
The unrest threatened a repeat of nationwide riots in Albania last year after the collapse of pyramid investment schemes that cost many people their life's savings. The turmoil sent refugees into Italy, Greece and elsewhere in Europe.
The United States and the European Union have expressed fear that the current violence could spread elsewhere in the Balkans, including the Serbian province of Kosovo, where ethnic Albanian rebels are fighting for independence.
Envoys from the United States and the European Union issued a joint statement deploring the violence and hinting that they might cut off economic aid if the Government falls.
Mr. Berisha has openly supported rebels in neighboring Kosovo. In last year's Albanian unrest, more than a million weapons were looted from Government armories, and many of the guns ended up in Kosovo.
Thousands of mourners scattered in terror today as guards inside the main Government building began firing at those who brought the body of the opposition leader, Azem Hajdari, and two others to Mr. Nano's office following a service at Skanderbeg Square. Mr. Hajdari and a party member were slain on Saturday outside their Democratic Party headquarters, and the third victim was a protester killed during rioting on Sunday.
Mr. Berisha, who has called for Mr. Nano's immediate resignation, appealed for calm in a televised address. He urged his followers to seek a political solution to "this deep crisis."
Foreign Minister Paskal Milo told a private radio station: "The attempts of Sali Berisha to come back to power through a coup are in vain. The international community is acting very fast. This Government has won the vote of the majority of the Albanian people and it has the responsibility for governing the country."
Another Government spokesman, Ben Blushi, said that Mr. Nano would not resign and that he was in Tirana.
Late this afternoon, police cars reappeared in Skanderbeg Square and firefighters were called to battled a blaze in an electronics shop that had been looted and set afire.
Early in the day, opposition members seized at least four Government tanks, and civilians climbed atop the vehicles while they moved down the streets. Residents were stocking up on food, fearing a protracted power struggle.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of former President Sali Berisha seized state buildings yesterday in Tirana, Albania, but Government forces regained control later. Protesters marched in the city's center, followed by a hijacked tank. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (99%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); GREECE (79%); 

CITY: TIRANA, ALBANIA (94%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA; TIRANA (ALBANIA); ALBANIA (99%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); GREECE (79%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); RIOTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (88%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); REFUGEES (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); SHOOTINGS (56%); 

PERSON: BERISHA, SALI (PRES) FATOS NANO (92%); SALI BERISHA (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998

 
