

201 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Intensifies Efforts to End Deadly Conflict in Kenya

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya 

 BODY:
The American government is playing an increasingly active role in trying to restore peace in Kenya, holding hearings in Washington on Thursday and threatening to prohibit some Kenyan politicians from entering the United States.
 A spokesman for the American Embassy in Kenya said Thursday that the embassy had written to 10 politicians and businessmen warning that they and their relatives would be denied entry into the United States if the embassy determined that they had instigated or taken part in violence. 
 More than 1,000 people have been killed in Kenya since a disputed election in December, and human rights groups have said much of the violence was organized. The American Embassy is warning people in the government and the opposition, and is trying to use the issue of visas to press the leaders to act responsibly and support efforts to reach a political compromise. 
 ''We consider the violence as the most immediate issue to deal with,'' said T. J. Dowling, the embassy spokesman. ''We wanted to let these people know that we are scrutinizing their acts and we will take action accordingly.''
 On Thursday, the Senate held hearings into the underlying causes of the unrest and how it affected other countries in the region. Until December, Kenya was known as an anchor state in East Africa, and it remains a base of operations for extensive aid efforts in some of its more turbulent neighbors, like Somalia, Sudan and Congo. The House of Representatives held similar hearings on Wednesday.
 ''Kenya is an important partner for the United States,'' said Russ Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin and chairman of the Senate's subcommittee on African affairs, in a statement. ''But the lack of progress in addressing a number of deep-rooted problems, including political marginalization, land disputes and endemic corruption, appear to have taken a toll. By many accounts, the situation in Kenya could still get much worse.''
 The American government has temporarily removed nearly 150 Peace Corps volunteers from Kenya. American officials said that even though Americans had not been the targets of attacks, the continuing instability, which included mob killings and roadblocks across the country, had made it dangerous for the volunteers to remain at their rural posts. 
 The Kenyan government seems to be swinging into action as well. On Thursday, police officials announced that they were charging an officer with murder in the shooting of an unarmed protester.
 Eric Kiraithe, a spokesman for the Kenyan police, said the government had arrested the officer, who was shown on Kenyan television last month shooting a protester at close range, then kicking him in the ribs with combat boots. The protester was unarmed and had been dancing and making faces. He later died. The same police officer has also been charged in the shooting death of another unarmed protester at the same demonstration.
 Police officials were quick to note that the officer was from the Kalenjin ethnic group, which tends to support the opposition. 
 ''This appears to be a clear case of criminal misconduct,'' Mr. Kiraithe said. ''It has nothing to do with tribe.''
 Police officers have also arrested more than 20 men this week on suspicion of terrorizing women in Naivasha, where mobs recently killed dozens of people. The men have been accused of molesting and attacking women who wore pants instead of skirts. The police said the suspects were part of a gang that took advantage of the disorder to push its harsh, and often mysterious, code of conduct.
 Kenya plunged into turmoil in December after its electoral commission declared that President Mwai Kibaki had narrowly beaten the top opposition leader, Raila Odinga. Observers cited widespread evidence of vote rigging.
 The controversy uncorked years of frustration over political, economic and land issues, pitting opposition supporters against members of the president's ethnic group and groups perceived as supporting the government. Representatives from the government and the opposition have been meeting for the past week with Kofi Annan, the former United Nations secretary general, to seek a resolution. On Thursday, the talks became more tense, with each side claiming to have won the election and neither offering meaningful concessions, said an official who was not authorized to speak publicly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of an ethnic Luo family waited Thursday in a truck at a camp for the displaced in Nakuru to go to their ancestral home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLICE FORCES (85%); MURDER (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); VOLUNTEERS (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (55%)

PERSON: RUSS FEINGOLD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); KENYA (98%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); SUDAN (79%); SOMALIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



202 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Ethics Inquiry Postpones N.Y.U. Merger With Polytechnic

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
New York University's plan to re-enter the engineering field by taking over a Brooklyn engineering school suffered a setback on Thursday, after a state senator said he would investigate the merger.
 The board at the engineering school, Polytechnic University, put off its vote on the merger for 30 days after receiving a letter from Senator Kenneth P. LaValle, the chairman of the New York State Senate Higher Education Committee. 
 Mr. LaValle, a Republican from Long Island, said in the letter that he planned to look into potential ethical and legal concerns raised by some of Polytechnic's trustees and alumni. 
 Among those issues, he said, were suggestions that some members of Polytechnic's board who are to vote on the deal might have conflicts of interest. 
 ''I will ask my counsel to evaluate these conflicts, and if they are real, then we will intervene,'' Mr. LaValle said in an interview. He said he would ask the State Education Department to take action, or, ''if we feel those conflicts rise to a certain nature, then we may have to have a legislative hearing to sort out the dirty laundry.'' 
 Polytechnic and N.Y.U. officials expressed confidence that the deal would ultimately go through, but some Polytechnic alumni opposed to the merger vowed to keep fighting. 
 The postponed vote was an unexpected hurdle in N.Y.U.'s four-year effort to acquire the engineering school and expand into a growing field that it ceded in 1973 when it gave up its own engineering school as part of a state-brokered deal to bail the university out financially. At that time, about 100 members of the N.Y.U. engineering faculty went to Polytechnic. 
 N.Y.U. officials have said that the university needs an engineering school because the discipline has become an increasingly important part of scientific research, and that it would be cheaper and faster to acquire Polytechnic than to build a new school from scratch. 
 Craig G. Matthews, Polytechnic's chairman, said the delay was unfortunate because the school ''had hoped to be able to use the time after the merger was approved in our recruitment of new students.''
 He said that in an informal poll during the board meeting, more than 75 percent of the 35-member board (the percentage required for approval) had voted in favor.
 Much of the highly charged Polytechnic board meeting, which lasted more than six hours, focused on the allegations of problems made by both alumni and trustees. 
 ''I allowed every opportunity for every trustee to raise every conflict they saw, and we discussed each one,'' Mr. Matthews said. ''And the board took a vote and affirmed that we had no problems with any of these matters.''
 He said the board's legal counsel had assured it that there were no conflicts of interest. 
 The Polytechnic board also reprimanded the leaders of the alumni association for bringing their concerns to Senator LaValle, and for sharing a confidential memo written by three trustees, who had asked the board to postpone the vote.
 The board also approved a resolution saying no one was authorized to talk to the news media without permission from the chairman of the board or from Polytechnic's president. Mr. Matthews said he did not plan to give permission.
 Some alumni and faculty members said they were troubled by the order.
 ''It's a sorry state of affairs that the chairman and president of the university would issue a gag order on some of their trustees for trying to alert public officials to improprieties,'' said Edward S. Sawchuk, executive vice president of the alumni association, who was not at the meeting.
 The Polytechnic faculty is divided on the merger. Some have objected, saying the university did not strike a strong enough deal to protect the Polytechnic identity and staff; others favor the merger.
 A letter sent to the Polytechnic board this week, signed by nine of its department chairmen, said that ''cutting-edge science, technology and engineering can no longer live in isolation from biology, medicine, dentistry, economics'' and other fields.
 ''The proposed affiliation with N.Y.U. will provide Poly with the opportunity to thrive in exactly this type of an environment,'' they wrote.
 Mel Horwitch, chairman of Polytechnic's management department, who did not sign the letter, said he was not against the merger but was concerned about the structure of the deal. 
 ''I feel that to develop a first-class school of technology and engineering, one needs considerable resources,'' he said. ''I was worried that we would not have access to those resources.''
 Sylvain Cappell, chairman of N.Y.U.'s Faculty Senators Council, said the fact that N.Y.U. had offered a $50 million loan to Polytechnic while making no visible pledge to invest money in the capital-starved institution did not mean that money would not be available.
 ''No one is pretending that either school is sitting on a pot of gold,'' Dr. Cappell said. ''But I believe that in combination, the schools will be able to obtain and command more resources than they do now. And N.Y.U. does plan to make some scientific funds available for collaboration.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ETHICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



203 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2792 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 '76 KISSES' Cynics, stop reading now. The new exhibition at the City Reliquary, a museum devoted to New York artifacts and ephemera (think vintage seltzer bottles, trolley parts, the old 2nd Avenue Deli sign), is ''76 Kisses,'' a series of found photographs of people in various states of lip lock. The images, from the turn of the last century to the 1980s, are from the collection of Lori Baker and David E. Brown, a Brooklyn couple who met three years ago via the photo-sharing Web site Flickr.com.
 ''There was no romantic intention,'' Ms. Baker said. ''We just had admired each other's work, and e-mailed.'' But they quickly discovered that each had been trolling flea markets, yard sales and eBay for amorous snapshots. ''Then when we finally met, it was that little bit of fireworks,'' Ms. Baker said.
 A romance, and a joint collection now numbering about 250 photos (above, an example), was born. The couple will attend the opening reception of their show on Friday. Later this month they are moving in together. (''I know, it's too cute,'' Ms. Baker said.) 
 Romantics, read on: the opening reception is built around a kissing booth, staffed by volunteers, a man and a woman; each will kiss people of either sex. After some deliberation, Matt Levy, the (fair warning) mustachioed volunteer and events coordinator at the museum, said the Reliquary would charge $1 for two kisses. ''People will spend that kind of money,'' he said. ''Even though its a recession, there's a lot of kisses to give away.''
 He thought a minute and added, ''If you decide to get all French with it, we might charge $1'' each. But, he noted, that level of smooching has to be a mutual decision. ''And phone numbers can be bargained upon.'' (Reception, Friday from 7 to 9 p.m.; ''76 Kisses,'' through March 30, City Reliquary, 370 Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-782-4842, cityreliquary.org.) MELENA RYZIK 
 HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town. Saturday at 7:30 and 9 p.m., a Tavern Concert with Dan Milner and Bob Conroy, a duo that performs Irish and American traditional songs. $15; $12 for members; reservations: (718) 351-1611, Ext. 280. Every Wednesday through April 23, 7:30 to 9 p.m., English Country Dancing; $5. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Tours offered on weekdays at 2:30 p.m. and weekends at 2 and 3:30 p.m. $5; $3.50 for students and children 5 to 17; free for members and children under 5.
 MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. Saturday at 1 and 3 p.m., ''Flowers & Fans: Old Fashioned Languages of Love,'' an afternoon tea with instruction in the art of fan flirtation; $40; $30 for members. (212) 777-1089; merchantshouse.com. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 5 p.m. $8; $5 for students and 65+; free for members and children under 12. 
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Through March 16, ''Manhattan Noon,'' photographs by Gus Powell, featuring 30 color images taken during his lunch hour. Saturday at noon, Mr. Powell and Donald Albrecht, the museum curator, will lead a discussion and tour of the exhibition. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., ''Eyes on New York: Perspectives on Street Photography,'' a discussion with Mr. Powell; Sean Corcoran, curator of prints and photographs; and others. Through April 13, ''Street Dance: The New York Photographs of Rudy Burckhardt,'' a display of 90 works. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., ''Underground Poetry: Rudy Burckhardt Film Festival,'' with screenings of 15 of his short films and discussions with Phillip Lopate, author of ''Rudy Burckhardt''; Deborah Solomon, who writes the ''Questions For'' feature for The New York Times Magazine; and Jacob Burckhardt, son of the photographer. Tickets to the Sunday and Tuesday events: $9; $5 for members; reservations: (212) 534-1672, Ext. 3395. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. (212) 534-1672; mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. Through Sunday, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the New-York Historical Society. 
 MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE, 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens. Sunday at 2 p.m., a tribute to the filmmaker St. Clair Bourne, who died in December, includes a panel discussion with critics and scholars and excerpts from his films. Through Feb. 24, ''Ford at Fox,'' a screening series of films made by John Ford for 20th Century Fox. Screenings on Saturday: ''Seas Beneath'' (1931), at 2:30 p.m., and ''Four Men and a Prayer'' (1938), at 5 p.m. Screenings on Sunday: ''When Willie Comes Marching Home'' (1950), at 5 p.m. Museum hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.; and by appointment. (718) 784-0077. Films and videos, unless noted, are free with admission: $10; $7.50 for 65+ and students; $5 for 5 to 18; free for members and children younger than 5; free for everyone on Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m. (but with admission required for Friday-night screenings); movingimage.us. 
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street. Through Sunday, ''Life's Pleasures: The Ashcan Artists' Brush With Leisure, 1895-1925.'' Through March 16, ''Audubon's Aviary: Portraits of Endangered Species,'' a display of 40 watercolors, with recorded bird calls and video. Tuesday at 5:30 p.m., the scholars David W. Blight and James G. Basker will discuss the recently discovered narratives of two former slaves, Wallace Turnage and John Washington, who escaped from their owners during the Civil War. Thursday at 5:30 p.m., the scholars Henry Louis Gates Jr. and Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham will talk about the African American National Biography, an archive of black history drawn from the stories of thousands of prominent African-Americans. Each lecture is $15; $10 for students, educators and 65+; $8 for members. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 873-3400; nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for children under 12. Through Sunday, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the Museum of the City of New York. 
 Gardens
 WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Through Sunday, ''Ornamental Instincts,'' an installation that showcases natural habitats. Saturday at 2 p.m., a conservatory walk in the Tropical House. Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m., a workshop in making valentine cards. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., (718) 549-3200, wavehill.org. $6; $3 for students and 65+; $2 for children 6 and older; free for members and under 6; Tuesdays, free all day; Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon.
 Events
 AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORIC TOUR, a bus tour to sites in Lower Manhattan and Harlem, including the African Burial Ground and the Apollo Theater, Saturday, 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., meeting at 690 Eighth Avenue, between 43rd and 44th Streets, Manhattan. Sponsored by Harlem Spirituals Gospel and Jazz Tours; harlemspirituals.com. Reservations: (800) 660-2166. $99; $89 for children 5 to 11. 
 BATTERY PARK CITY PARKS CONSERVANCY, 2 South End Avenue, Lower Manhattan. Saturday, 2 to 4 p.m., a workshop in making miniature books for Valentine's Day. Reservations required: (212) 267-9700, Ext. 348; bpcparks.org. Suggested donation: $5. 
 BROOKLYN PUBLIC LIBRARY, Grand Army Plaza, Flatbush Avenue and Eastern Parkway. Saturday at 2 p.m., Leonard Lopate, the radio host, will interview the author Tim McLoughlin. Saturday at 4 p.m., members of the Brooklyn Philharmonic and the soprano Amy Burton will perform John Corigliano's musical settings of poems by Bob Dylan. (718) 230-2100; brooklynpubliclibrary.org. Free. 
 CENTRAL PARK WINTER JAM, Saturday, noon to 8 p.m., at the Naumburg Bandshell and Mall, reachable from the 72nd Street entrances on the West and East Side. With tubing and sledding down a ramp, musical performances and children's activities from noon to 4:30 p.m. The ramp will then be open to snowboarders from 4:30 to 8 p.m.; registration is required. Sponsored by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. nyc.gov/parks. Free. LUNAR NEW YEAR CELEBRATIONS IN CHINATOWN, Sunday, an arts festival from noon to 5 p.m. on stages at Mott and Bayard Streets and on East Broadway, between Catherine and Market Streets; and a parade at 1 p.m., beginning at Mott and Hester Streets. 
 LUNAR NEW YEAR FOLK FESTIVAL, Sunday, 3 to 5:30 p.m., at the Asian American Arts Center, 26 Bowery, below Canal Street, Lower Manhattan. Featuring demonstrations of traditional arts and crafts, performances and food. Reservations: (212) 233-2154. $12; $6 for students and children 3 to 12; free for children 3 and younger. 
 MANHATTAN VINTAGE CLOTHING SHOW, Metropolitan Pavilion, 125 West 18th Street, Chelsea. Friday, 1 to 8 p.m., and Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., manhattanvintage.com. $20. 
 NEW YORK THEATER BALLET Thursday at 12:30 p.m., excerpts from ''Carnival of the Animals'' and ''The Sleeping Beauty'' will be performed to celebrate St. Valentine's Day at the World Financial Center, Winter Garden, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan. (212) 945-0505; worldfinancialcenter.com. Free. 
 ROARING TWENTIETH VALENTINE'S DAY PARTY Thursday at 7:30 p.m., at Galapagos Art Space, 70 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Featuring music, film, dance, burlesque and performance art. geminiandscorpio.com. $20.
 SECOND SUNDAY, Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens. Sunday at 3 p.m., Electric Kulintang, a percussion duo made up of Susie Ibarra and Roberto Rodriguez, will provide accompaniment to a recording of the poem ''War Horses,'' read by its author, Yusef Komunyakaa. (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. $10; $5 for students and 60+; free for children under 12. 
 SKATING UNDER THE STARS, Wollman Rink, Prospect Park, Brooklyn, reachable from entrances at Parkside and Ocean Avenues or Lincoln Road and Ocean Avenue. Friday, 9:30 p.m. to midnight, an ice-skating party for those 21 and older to benefit the Prospect Park Alliance. Reservations: (718) 965-6992. $40 to $125; $30 to $100 for members. 
 SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME: SPOTLIGHT ON SAINTS, a tour of the saintly images at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights. Sunday at 2 p.m., meeting at the visitors' center. (212) 932-7347, stjohndivine.org. $10; $8 for students. 
 33RD ANNUAL THUNDERBIRD AMERICAN INDIAN DANCERS CONCERT AND POWWOW, Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village. Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; and Sundays at 2 p.m., through Feb. 17. With music, dancing and storytelling. $10; $1 for children under 12 with an adult at matinee performances. (212) 254-1109; theaterforthenewcity.net.
 NATIONAL BLACK FINE ART SHOW, Puck Building, 295 Lafayette Street, SoHo. Thursday through Feb. 17. Featuring 38 international exhibitors. Thursday, noon to 8 p.m. $15 admission includes show catalog. (212) 925-5257; blackfineartshow.com. $10 for students; $35 for three-day pass ($25 for students). 
 12TH SEPHARDIC JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL, Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district. On Saturday, ''Exodus: Ada's Dream'' at 8 p.m., and ''Family Heroes'' at 9:30 p.m. Screenings on Sunday are at noon and 3, 4:30, 6:30 and 8:30 p.m. Through Thursday. (917) 606-8200. Ticket information: americansephardifederation.org. 
 Spoken Word
 CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street. Monday at 7 p.m., ''New Visions: Poets & Artists in Collaboration,'' a discussion co-sponsored by the Poetry Society of America. (212) 817-2005. Free. 
 EXPLORERS CLUB, 46 East 70th Street, Manhattan. Monday at 7 p.m., ''Bandits, Guns & Automobiles: The Great Race of 1908,'' a lecture to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the New York to Paris automobile race, with the great-grandson of the winner, George Schuster; reception at 6:30 p.m. (212) 628-8383; explorers.org. $20; $5 for students.
 VALENTINE'S DAY DELIGHTS, Thursday at 6 p.m. at the Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village. A program of love poems and Renaissance music, with the actors Barbara Feldon and Paul Hecht and the music group Parthenia. (212) 989-9319. $10. 
 Walking Tours
 ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING Saturday at 2 p.m., ''When Irish Eyes Were Smiling!,'' a walk in Clinton, meeting on the northwest corner of Eighth Avenue and 48th Street. (212) 265-2663. $10.
 A LIVING HISTORY TOUR OF THE LOWER EAST SIDE, Sunday at 10:45 a.m., sponsored by Timeline Touring. Meeting place: (212) 209-3370; timelinetouring.com. $38.
 ART GALLERY WALKING TOUR IN CHELSEA Saturday at 1 p.m., visiting eight modern-art galleries, meeting at 526 West 26th Street. Sponsored by nygallerytours.com. (212) 946-1548. $20. 
 BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Friday at 1 p.m., ''Historic Chinatown: Celebrate the Year of the Rat,'' with stops at the Lin Tse-Hsu Memorial and sites associated with the political leader Dr. Sun Yat-sen and with Yung Wing, the first Chinese person to graduate from an American university, meeting on the southeast corner of Grand and Chrystie Streets. (212) 439-1090; bigonion.com. $15; $12 for 63+; $10 for students and members of the New-York Historical Society. 
 NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Sunday at 1:30 p.m., ''Literary and Artistic Garrets of Greenwich Village,'' with stops at sites related to Edgar Allan Poe, Margaret Sanger and Eugene O'Neill, meeting at the northwest corner of Avenue of the Americas, at 10th Street, in front of the Jefferson Market branch of the New York Public Library. (888) 377-4455. $20 cash; $15 credit card. 
 NYC CHINATOWN TOURS Friday and Sunday, ''Delicious Foods of Chinatown'' and Saturday, a ''Shanghai-Style Soup Dumpling Tour.'' All begin at 1 p.m. Reservations and meeting places: (646) 713-9960; nycchinatowntours.com. Tours are $30 each. 
 NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 12:30 and 2:45 p.m., ''Tour Indoor: The Grand Central Birthday Bash,'' commemorating the terminal's 95th anniversary. (It opened on Feb. 2, 1913.) Saturday at 5:30 p.m., ''Historic Pubs and Taverns of Union Square.'' Reservations and meeting places: (212) 465-3331. $15 each; drinks additional on pub tour.
 EAST VILLAGE TOURS.COM Saturday and Tuesday at 11 a.m., ''East Village 101,'' meeting at the Astor Place Cube at East Eighth Street, between Lafayette Street and Fourth Avenue. Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Gangsters, Murderers and Weirdos,'' meeting at the northwest corner of Second Avenue and Houston Street, Lower East Side.(917) 215-2575; eastvillagetours.com. $15. 
 MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Saturday at 11 a.m., ''The Financial District Transformed'' looks at the development of the area following World War II, meeting outside the United States Post Office, on the northwest corner of Church and Vesey Streets. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Exploring East Side Diversity: Islamic, Christian and Jewish Sanctuaries'' will visit the Islamic Cultural Center, St. Vincent Ferrer Roman Catholic Church, Central Presbyterian Church and Temple Emanu-El, meeting at the Islamic Cultural Center, Third Avenue and 96th Street. (212) 439-1049. Each, $15; $12 for members. 
 PREPARING FOR THE LUNAR NEW YEAR IN CHINATOWN, Saturday at 1 p.m., meeting at the Museum of Chinese in America, sponsor of the walk, 70 Mulberry Street, at Bayard Street, (212) 619-4785; moca-nyc.org. $12; $10 for students and 65+; $6 for members; free for children 5 and younger. 
 SHOREWALKERS Sunday at 11 a.m., a four-mile walk in Brooklyn along the Narrows, meeting outside the 95th Street and Fourth Avenue stop on the R train. (201) 332-1709. $3.
 STREET SMARTS N.Y. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Walks in Old Chelsea,'' meeting in front of the Flatiron Building at the intersection of Broadway, Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street. (212) 969-8262. $10. 
 URBAN PARK RANGERS will lead a tour of Fort Totten in Queens, Saturday at 2 p.m., meeting at the Ranger Station in the park, north of the intersection of 212th Street and Cross Island Parkway. nyc.gov/park/rangers. Free. 
 Recreation
 NEW YORK ROAD RUNNERS HALF-MARATHON GRAND PRIX, the Bronx. Sunday at 8 a.m., beginning on Goulden Avenue and Bedford Park Boulevard, Bedford Park. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners. (212) 860-4455; nyrr.org. Advance registration: $30; $20 for members; $14 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race day registration: $35; $25 for members; $15 for 18 and younger and 62+.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); HISTORY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); VOLUNTEERS (74%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



204 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Dozens Held as Mob Case Links Gambinos to 3 Decades of Crime

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM; Daniele Pinto contributed reporting from Palermo, Sicily.

 BODY:
One crime stretched back to the 1976 killing of a court officer ambushed outside his home in the early morning hours to prevent him from testifying against a member of the mob. 
 Another took place just two years ago, an extortion scheme in which crime figures plotted how to siphon money from the planned Nascar racetrack on Staten Island. And over a span of years there were a number of thefts from the benefit funds of several construction unions.
 These crimes, and scores of others, were outlined in state and federal indictments unsealed on Thursday that charged 87 people and represented a government move against the upper echelon of the Gambino crime family. 
 Beginning with early morning knocks on doors around the New York City area, the case formed the basis for a roundup that authorities called the biggest such sweep in memory, one that was coordinated with arrests by Italian authorities in Sicily. 
 The charges took aim at not only the family's leadership but at a cadre of middle managers and lower level figures in the Gambino clan and others in the Bonanno and Genovese families. Also charged were several union and construction officials.
 And if it was not the most debilitating blow ever struck against the mob, it left no doubt that organized crime, often declared as diminished or on the decline, remains a formidable force in the New York area. ''It is simply wrong to suggest that La Cosa Nostra or LCN is no longer a threat to public safety or the economic vitality of New York City and the surrounding region,'' said Mark J. Mershon, the assistant F.B.I. director who heads the bureau's New York office.
 The mob remains deeply entrenched in the construction industry, and New York's five families continue to reap millions from staples like loan-sharking, labor racketeering, securities fraud, gambling and drugs. 
 At the same time, the scope of the schemes carried out by its members are limited only by their imagination and industriousness and included pirating cable TV signals and pioneering telephone billing scams.
 While Thursday ended with much of the Gambino family's leadership detained by the authorities and thus unable to operate effectively, the long-term impact of the case remains unclear, as other crime figures likely will be ready to stand in their stead.
 Mr. Mershon commented at a news conference where Benton J. Campbell, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, announced the indictments. Standing with him were two dozen other federal, state and local law enforcement officials whose agencies played a role in the case.
 The arrests in New York were coordinated with a smaller sweep of accused organized crime figures in Palermo, Sicily, who were arrested on unrelated crimes, but charged in a case that United States and Italian authorities said was part of an effort to breach the close relationship between the Sicilian Mafia and the Gambino family.
 The charges, unsealed in United States District Court in Brooklyn and in State Supreme Court in Queens, include seven murders, three dating back more than a quarter century, and racketeering, construction extortion and state gambling charges.
 The crimes contained in the federal and state indictments were unrelated, stemming from different investigations. Some aspects of the federal inquiry, which itself included a wide range of crimes, began five years ago.
 By Thursday evening, the army of about 400 agents and investigators who blanketed the city in the early morning had arrested 59 of the 62 people charged in the federal indictment and 20 of the 26 charged in state court in Queens, where the case was made by New York detectives and the office of Richard A. Brown, Queens district attorney. 
 Sixteen men whom federal authorities identified as senior crime family figures were held without bail in a series of arraignments that stretched into the evening. 
 They included the Gambino family's acting boss, John D'Amico, 73, who is known as Jackie the Nose, and underboss, Domenico Cefalu, 61, who is known as Greaseball, and the consigliere, Joseph Corozzo, who is known as JoJo, the officials said. 
 Mr. D'Amico, Mr. Cefalu and Mr. Corozzo were all charged in federal court with racketeering conspiracy and extortion and, if convicted, face up to 20 years in prison on multiple counts.
 Mr. Corozzo's brother, Nicholas, a captain in the family, who was named in both indictments, remained at large, officials said. 
 The case was made with assistance of an informant, a trucking company executive who had been the victim of extortions and who had paid more than $200,000 to Gambino family figures, according to several officials with knowledge of the case. The executive, Joseph Vollaro, served prison time on a drug conviction several years ago and had shared a cell with Nicholas Corozzo, the officials said, and Mr. Vollaro's successful trucking companies, Andrews Trucking and Dumpmasters of NY, were extorted by Mr. Corozzo and his brother.
 Mr. Vollaro, whose cooperation was won by investigators from a State Organized Crime Task Force, made hundreds of hours of secret tape recordings that officials said will serve as the evidence for much of the case involving the construction extortions, officials said.
 ''This investigation was extraordinary in that it penetrated the inner workings of the Gambino family and simultaneously reached back in time to hold several members of the Gambino family accountable for their prior crimes,'' Mr. Campbell said. 
 Mr. Campbell was speaking of the seven murders in the case. Prosecutors charged that five were committed by a single Gambino soldier, Charles Carneglia, from 1976 to 1990. 
 The first was the slaying of Albert Gelb, a court officer who arrested Mr. Carneglia in a Queens diner after noticing that he was carrying a pistol. Mr. Gelb was shot four days before he was to testify against Mr. Carneglia in that case. The last was the killing of an armored car guard, Jose Delgado Rivera, who was shot during a robbery.
 In a telephone interview, Joseph Corozzo's lawyer, his son, Joseph R. Corozzo, asked why federal prosecutors had included all 62 federal defendants in a single indictment, saying it would delay the case for months. 
 He argued that there was ''no proper rationale for putting 62 people on one indictment.''
 ''It's merely an attempt to detain people without bail for many, many months, which is contrary to the Constitution of the country.''
 The construction extortion aspects of the investigation focused on the trucking industry, which hauls away dirt excavated from construction projects, said Gordon S. Heddell, inspector general of the United States Labor Department. Mr. Heddell said his agents were instrumental in starting the investigation.
 ''This investigation exposed the alleged grip that the Gambino organized-crime family has had over one of the largest construction markets in the United States, from small private projects to large-scale public works contracts,'' he said. 
 ''This involved the trucks that move construction material and debris throughout the entire New York City region: the cement that is poured to build house foundations out on Staten Island, the general contractors who are responsible for building condominiums over in New Jersey and even a proposed Nascar raceway.''
 Two union officials were also charged. They are Louis Mosca, a business manager for New Jersey Laborers' Union Local 325 of the Laborers' International Union of North America, and Michael King, a shop steward for the Building, Concrete, Excavating and Common Laborers Union Local 731 of Greater New York.
 Also charged were a construction executive involved in the raceway project, William Kilgannon, and another man involved in the project, Todd Polakoff, who was charged with taking a $9,000 payoff from Mr. Vollaro.
 Anthony Delvescovo, who the indictment says served as a project manager and director of tunnel operations for the Schiavone Construction Company, was charged with extortion and extortion conspiracy. The company could not be reached for comment.
 Trucking company executives, from companies that included SRD Contracting, Firehawk Enterprises, Jo-Tap Industries, Andrews Trucking and Dump Masters of NY Inc., were charged with extortion and theft of union benefits. 
 The firms were licensed by New York City's Business Integrity Commission, an agency that oversees private carting companies and businesses that haul construction debris. The commission, which also had a role in the investigation, is expected to move to revoke the companies' licenses on Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reputed mob figures being escorted out of the F.B.I.'s office in Manhattan to waiting police vans on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 Suspects at F.B.I. offices on Thursday. They face charges including seven murders, three dating back more than a quarter century. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FAMILY (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); EXTORTION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (76%); LAWYERS (75%); NASCAR RACING (71%); TELEPHONE BILLING FRAUD (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



205 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Conservative Success? Define Success

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 In ''Dyspepsia on the Right'' (column, Feb. 4), William Kristol demonstrates why conservatives have lost control of Congress and will soon lose the White House, too. 
 He claims that conservatism stands for ''the responsibilities of a great power.'' But don't those include the wisdom to use power wisely? Conservatives clearly misused it in their push to invade Iraq. 
 Mr. Kristol, a leading proponent of the invasion, claims that conservatives alone resist ''big government'' and stand for excellence, self-reliance, duty, honor and traditional virtues. 
 But aren't the conservatives the ones who support eavesdropping on fellow citizens without a warrant? Holding suspects in secret prisons? Condoning torture? Handing out billion-dollar no-bid contracts to political allies? 
 The grim evidence is in. Conservatives' rhetoric can no longer obscure the damage they have done to accountability in Washington, the federal budget, our reputation abroad or our brave soldiers. 
 Mr. Kristol did get one thing right: Americans might not invite conservatives ''back into a position of responsibility for quite a while to come.'' 
 Howard Tomb 
 Brooklyn, Feb. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I agree with William Kristol that in recent years, conservatives have been successful in furthering their agenda. But I profoundly disagree with the results of this success. 
 Under the influence of conservatives, the standard of living of most Americans has been lowered. The wealth created by the economy has been transferred from the poor and the middle class to the rich. 
 The current conservative government has become corrupt and incompetent. It has significantly decreased its efforts to provide for the general welfare of the vast majority of its citizens. It started an unjustified war.
 Democratic rights are being taken away from us, and our government has used fear to manipulate its citizens. We are reviled by much of the world and continue to pollute the environment. Our health care and educational systems are shameful. 
 These are the real legacies of the conservative ''success'' story. 
 Bruce Shames 
 New York, Feb. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As an American who participated in two wars, an unarmed war correspondent with the 29th Division in the Normandy landing, and a Foreign Service officer with the United States Embassy in Saigon, I am confused as to what William Kristol and his fellow conservatives mean by ''winning'' in Iraq.
 Certainly, the defeat of the Axis in Europe and the decision to end our war in Vietnam are clear. We decidedly won one and lost the other. But the end result was a far more stable situation in both cases. 
 Now the Republican mantra is that we must ''win'' a battle we were not prepared to undertake that has cost us thousands of American and Iraqi lives with no factual indications we have or are about to win anything. The only honorable answer is to get out of this mess as soon as we can.
 Holbrook Bradley 
 San Diego, Feb. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Among the many things to contest in William Kristol's column is one that I hope will not slip by unnoticed: the claim that political conservatism is ''not easy'' in ''a modern liberal democracy.'' 
 On the contrary, it is far too easy to create and win favor for a domestic policy that does little more than eviscerate government programs while cutting taxes for wealthy donors and others who are encouraged to pursue nothing more than their own self-interest. Even Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush could get their minds around that. 
 It is liberals who do the difficult work of formulating effective programs to address serious problems that the market economy and private gain do not resolve. Conservatives appoint themselves to the easy job of tearing these efforts down. 
 And it is liberals who do the often thankless work of asking our fellow citizens to rise occasionally above their own self-interest. Stuart Blumin 
 Ithaca, N.Y., Feb. 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (50%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); VIET NAM (79%); EUROPE (79%); VIETNAM (79%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



206 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 955 words

PERSON: Nicole Parent 

HEADLINE: Decor Is Crimson, and the Ceiling Isn't Glass

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
PAUL NIKAC, the convivial daytime bartender at the Harvard Club of New York City, spots the club's newest, youngest, and first-ever female president, Nicole M. Parent, a managing director at Credit Suisse and gung-ho global sector head of its capital goods equity research division, and does not genuflect. 
 Ms. Parent is not bullish on formality. Besides, the Harvard Club has outgrown its sexist beginnings: the secret, separate women's entrance that took female guests up a hidden staircase and through a door camouflaged as a bookcase has been ancient history for all of 35 years. 
 In a city of artifice addicts, the tousled, blond, makeup-free Ms. Parent, 36, is preternaturally natural. ''Hey, Nicole, how about a free drink for your clients?'' Mr. Nikac suggests, wrongly assuming the gawkers traipsing in her sunny wake are business clients reaping the benefits of her preternatural fiscal expertise.
 Instead, the interlopers -- a reporter and a photographer -- are here to soak up the club's countless bookcases, oil portraits (just three feature women, but Ms. Parent is on that with a vengeance), and drop-dead taxidermy (a wart hog and elephant vie for top honors). And here to figure out what possessed her to assume the presidency of a club that, until 1973, denied membership to women. Even now, fewer than 20 percent of the club's 11,400 members are women, and fewer than 25 percent are under 40. But Ms. Parent, a vice president at the club for three years before her appointment as president Jan. 17, does not see any inherent Marxian (Groucho) membership dilemma. 
 ''The Harvard Club has been ready for a female president for a long time, and in no way do I feel like a token,'' she says. ''I don't look at Harvard, or at being affiliated with the Harvard Club, in any way as snooty; the challenge is to respect the club's tradition while broadening the membership to make it resemble Harvard itself.'' Which is? ''Diversity at its best, racially, socioeconomically, gender-wise, you name it.'' 
 Ms. Parent, while mindful of the brouhaha that brought down a former Harvard president, Lawrence H. Summers, after his commentary on the dearth of women in science and engineering professions was denounced as sexist, says she did not encounter sexism during college. Or at this club, which she joined in 1993. But she did experience it on Wall Street. ''I was in one of my first corporate meetings as a senior analyst at Smith Barney and a client rep turned to me and said, 'Honey, could you go get me some coffee?' '' She did not. 
 SHE is a small-town girl who made good and deciphered Wall Street after an apprenticeship with the chief economist of the New York Stock Exchange from 1993 to 1996. ''I learned how stocks are traded, from top to bottom, every place on the planet,'' she says of three years that served as a surrogate, and free, version of business school. Her job at Credit Suisse was preceded by stints at Banc of America Securities, Salomon Smith Barney, and Cowen & Company. She traded up each time. 
 Ms. Parent, who received a B.A. in economics from Harvard in 1993 after being accepted as a soccer recruit, grew up working class in Abington, Mass. The daughter of a unionized AT&T worker and an office manager, she was the first in her family to attend college. 
 An equities whiz, she was recognized by Forbes magazine last year as the No. 1 stock picker and top earnings estimator for industrial conglomerates. Quick translation: ''It means that within my sector, I have an ability to forecast which stocks are going to outperform others and to forecast a company's earnings.'' Implicit is that these prognostications are accurate. 
 Take last night's chummy note to her institutional clients. ''Emerson had a great quarter,'' she wrote, referring to the electrical company, ''but not great enough to cheer us up from the Patriots' loss.'' Hey, she's a Bostonian at heart. On Super Bowl Sunday, she held a party in the club's Charles River Room, the only room where jeans, cellphones and WiFi are tolerated.
 Elsewhere, the club offers the same amenities and ambience it always has: a formal dining room, ornate reading rooms and library, exercise facilities, hotel-style accommodations, even a barbershop.
 ''You have to take a step back and realize that the default answer to everything can't always be, 'We do it this way because we've always done it this way,' '' she says about updating the club's attitude. ''I had hedge manager friends tell me they had no interest in joining any club that wouldn't allow jeans. I don't want to drive members away to Starbucks when they have to make a conference call.''
 In this tradition-laden, landmark 1894 neo-Georgian building by Charles F. McKim on West 44th Street, which in 2003 modernized itself with a $30 million addition, Madame President counsels fiscal prudence. Especially for bartenders.
 ''No free drinks, Paul,'' she decrees. Ms. Parent is blunt, something General Electric found out the hard way a few years back when she gave it a negative review. ''I help people make money and avoid losing it if I'm good at my job,'' she says, ''and that means sticking your neck out when you know your analysis is right.'' 
 Ms. Parent's diversions from equity analysis are skiing, shopping (she is partial to Tahari suits and Louis Vuitton accessories), and renovating a weekend house in Southampton. She lives on the Upper West Side in an apartment with, not entirely by coincidence, a clubby leather furniture/Oriental carpet aesthetic. Her bedroom is crimson and gold. She is single: ''Finding a significant other is not a priority for me. The receptionist at work says a prayer every morning that I'll meet someone special.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); WOMEN (78%); HISTORY (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



207 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Sigh of Relief From the Nervous London Auctions

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Reassurance. That's what motivated so many dealers and collectors from around the world to flock here this week for the big February art auctions. Reassurance that, despite the shaky state of world financial markets, there are still plenty of people willing to spend millions of dollars to put Impressionist, Modern or contemporary art on their walls. 
 So there was considerable relief when a Francis Bacon triptych fetched $51.6 million or when, after frenzied bidding, a landscape by the German Expressionist painter Franz Marc made $24.3 million -- a record for the artist at auction -- or when an 1874 Renoir that sold for $12.1 million in 1989 was snapped up for $14.6 million. 
 Throughout the week tastes tended to gravitate toward sophisticated, Modern work. Expressionist artists who have been embraced in recent years by European buyers brought particularly strong prices. 
 But despite the highs, there was still an undercurrent of nervousness. ''People are anxious -- they would be stupid not to be,'' Leslie Waddington, a London dealer, said after the last of this week's three important evening sales ended on Wednesday. In addition to the successes there were scores of paintings by masters like Matisse, Chagall, Rothko and Warhol that went unsold. 
 As is so often the case the results were driven by the quality of the offerings, the estimates, how flush collectors were feeling and tastes and fashions. 
 Sotheby's sale of Impressionist and modern art on Tuesday night was the week's biggest success. Even as the stock market in New York was plunging (and the Dow dropping 370 points), record prices were being set for Marc and other Expressionist artists like Alexej von Jawlensky and Hermann Max Pechstein. 
 With a mix of commercial paintings, drawings and sculptures that went more or less for their presale estimates, Sotheby's sale total -- $230.5 million -- was the highest ever for its auctions of Impressionist and Modern art in London. A geographical breakdown of buyers was telling, with 82 percent European (a term that Sotheby's said includes Russian as well as British) and only 13 percent American. 
 While Sotheby's would not say how many Russians bought art on Tuesday night, their presence was obvious. Mikhail Kamensky, director of Sotheby's Russia, could be seen clutching a telephone while bidding on behalf of an unidentified client who outmaneuvered three other contenders for Marc's 1910 canvas ''Grazing Horses III,'' a scene in the Bavarian countryside. The painting sold for $24.3 million, breaking the artist's previous record of $20.2 million, set last November in New York. It was the night's most expensive work. 
 Alina Davey, a Russian-born Sotheby's representative in London, was bidding on the telephone for another unidentified client. Raising paddle number LO28, she bought several works, including a Signac landscape for $6.2 million, a village scene by Pissarro for $4.6 million and a Klimt drawing for $451,000. 
 Caroline Lang, a Sotheby's official in Geneva who is also said to have several Russian clients, was furiously bidding Tuesday night too. One of her clients paid $18.6 million for Jawlensky's ''Schokko With Wide-Brimmed Hat,'' a colorful 1910 portrait of a young German village girl. The price was more than double the previous auction record for the artist, set at Sotheby's in New York in 2003. 
 Not everything seemed to be heading to Russia. Charles Moffett, a vice chairman of Sotheby's in America, took the winning $14.6 million telephone bid for ''La Loge'' (''The Theater Box''), an 1874 Renoir painting of a couple at the Paris Opera. The painting once belonged to Stephen A. Wynn, the Las Vegas casino developer, who paid $12.1 million for it at Christie's in 1989. After the sale, dealers speculated that Mr. Moffett was bidding for Dede Wilsey, a San Francisco collector whom he advises. 
 Several works by Picasso fared well on Tuesday night too. A 1938 portrait of his mistress Dora Maar that had belonged to the Berlin dealer Heinz Berggruen, who died a year ago, went to an unidentified man in the audience for $14.6 million, above its low $13.3 million estimate. 
 The robust results were surprising even to some seasoned dealers. ''I was shocked,'' said Gordon VeneKlasen, a partner in the Michael Werner Gallery in New York, after Tuesday night's auction. ''February auctions in London were always the fillers. What was particularly surprising was how many things went over $5 million. That used to be a benchmark. Now it's the norm.''
 (All prices include the auction house premium, 25 percent of the first $20,000, 20 percent of the price from $20,000 to $500,000 and 12 percent above $500,000.) 
 Christie's Impressionist and modern art auction on Monday night was not nearly as strong because its offerings were viewed as inferior and the sale -- 131 lots -- was simply too long to hold the audience's attention. Still, it limped along, bringing $207.3 million, the second highest total for an Impressionist and modern London sale at Christie's, after $241 million last June. Despite a string of high prices paid for paintings by Picasso, van Dongen and Gris, nearly a quarter of the works failed to sell. 
 Eight drawings by Egon Schiele, the Austrian Expressionist, were big sellers. They were being offered by the Neue Galerie in New York to help cover the cost of Klimt's ''Adele Bloch-Bauer I,'' a 1907 portrait that the cosmetics executive Ronald S. Lauder acquired for the Galerie for $135 million in 2006. The most expensive of them, ''Mother and Child,'' a 1910 illustration of a naked woman's back with a child clutching at her waist, was bought by Richard Nagy, the London dealer, for $5.7 million. 
 For the first time Sotheby's did not hold its London contemporary-art auction the same week as its sale of Impressionist and modern art, instead putting it off until Feb. 27. The official reason was that Sotheby's wanted to clear enough space to exhibit the works before the sale rather than cramming them into its New Bond Street galleries along with the Impressionist and Modern offerings. But experts said privately that Sotheby's was awaiting some important consignments. That left Christie's with the only sale of postwar and contemporary art this week. 
 A market that has traditionally been dominated by American buyers, that Wednesday night auction could best be described as patchy. Christie's officials said that 57 percent of the buyers were from Europe and 43 percent from the United States. The sale brought $143 million, just at the low estimate. 
 Only 37 of the 55 works were sold, or 69 percent. Excessive estimates obviously made buyers wary. By far the most exciting moment came when a man standing in the doorway of the crowded salesroom paid $51.6 million for a 1974-77 triptych by Bacon. Though he refused to identify himself, people who recognized him said he was Andy Cohen, a Geneva-based jewelry dealer who was bidding on behalf of a client. 
 Many of the priciest pictures went to Americans. A 1966 painting of frolicking lovers by Gerhard Richter sold for $14.3 million, a record price for the artist. A 1982 painting by Jean-Michel Basquiat, ''Palm Springs Jump,'' brought $12.7 million. Both were bought by Brett Gorvy, a co-head of Christie's postwar and contemporary art department who was bidding on behalf of various American clients. Larry Gagosian, the Manhattan dealer, spent $4.2 million for ''Settlement Nurse,'' a 2003 painting by Richard Prince. 
 The biggest disappointment of the evening came when three paintings by the popular German artist Rudolf Stingel went unsold. Christie's had overestimated them, and buyers knew it. 
 As the crowds were spilling out of Christie's salesroom, some blamed Americans who held back because of the economy. Others just said the result was a reflection of the auction itself. 
 ''The big-ticket items sold well, but those things that were overpriced didn't,'' said Per Skarstedt, a Manhattan dealer. ''It was simple.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 9, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Inside Art column in Weekend on Friday, about the February art auctions in London, misidentified the nationality of the artist Rudolf Stingel, whose three paintings offered at a Christie's auction went unsold. He was born in Italy and holds Italian citizenship, and recently became an American citizen. He is not German.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: Basquiat's 1982 ''Palm Springs Jump'' sold for $12.7 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S) (pg. E34)
 A detail from Jawlensky's ''Schokko With Wide-Brimmed Hat'' (1910). (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S) (pg. E33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (85%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



208 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Studies Call Biofuels a Greenhouse Threat

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Almost all biofuels used today cause more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional fuels if the full emissions costs of producing these ''green'' fuels are taken into account, two studies published Thursday have concluded.
 The benefits of biofuels have come under increasing attack in recent months, as scientists took a closer look at the global environmental cost of their production. These latest studies, published only by the journal Science, are likely to add to the controversy. These studies for the first time take a detailed, comprehensive look at the emissions effects of the huge amount of natural land that is being converted to cropland globally to support biofuel development. 
 The destruction of natural ecosystems -- whether rain forests in the tropics or grasslands in South America -- not only releases greenhouse gases into the atmosphere when they are burned and plowed, but also deprives the planet of natural sponges to absorb carbon emissions. Cropland also absorbs far less carbon than the rain forests or even scrubland that it replaces. 
 Together the two studies offer sweeping conclusions: It does not matter if it is rain forest or scrubland that is cleared, the greenhouse gas contribution is significant. More important, they discovered that, globally, the production of almost all biofuels resulted, directly or indirectly, intentionally or not, in new land's being cleared for food or fuel. 
 ''When you take this into account, most of the biofuel that people are using or planning to use would probably increase greenhouse gases substantially,'' said Timothy Searchinger, lead author of one of the studies and a researcher in environment and economics at Princeton. 
 These plant-based fuels were originally promoted as better than fossil fuels because the carbon released when they were burned was balanced by the carbon absorbed when the plants grew. But even that equation proved overly simplistic because the process of turning plants into fuels causes its own emissions -- for refining and transportation, for example. 
 The clearance of grassland releases 93 times the amount of greenhouse gas that would be saved by the fuel made annually on that land, said Joseph Fargione, lead author of the second paper, and a scientist at the Nature Conservancy. ''So for the next 93 years you're making climate change worse, just at the time when we need to be bringing down carbon emissions.'' 
 In the wake of the new studies, 10 eminent United States' ecologists and environmental biologists on Thursday sent a letter to President Bush and the speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, urging a reform of biofuel policies. ''We write to call your attention to recent research indicating that many anticipated biofuels will actually exacerbate global warming,'' the letter said. 
 The European Union and a number of European countries have recently tried to address the land-use issue with proposals stipulating that imported biofuels cannot come from land that was previously rain forest. 
 But even with such restrictions in place, Dr. Searchinger's study shows, the purchase of biofuels in Europe and the United States leads indirectly to the destruction of natural habitats far afield. 
 For instance, if vegetable oil prices go up globally, as they have because of increased demand for biofuel crops, more new land is inevitably cleared as farmers in developing countries try to get in on the profits. So crops from old plantations go to Europe for biofuels, while new fields are cleared to feed people at home. 
 Likewise, Dr. Fargione said that the dedication of so much cropland in the United States to growing corn for bioethanol had caused indirect land use changes far away, for instance, by increasing pressure on Brazil to meet soybean demand. ''Brazilian farmers are planting more of the world's soybeans -- and they're deforesting the Amazon to do it,'' Dr. Fargione said. 
 Industry groups, like the Renewable Fuels Association, immediately attacked the new studies as ''simplistic.''
 ''Biofuels like ethanol are the only tool readily available that can begin to address the challenges of energy security and environmental protection,'' said Bob Dineen, the group's director, in a statement after Science released the reports.
 But the papers suggested that, if land use is taken into account, biofuels may not provide all the benefits once anticipated. 
 Dr. Searchinger said the only possible exception he could see for now was sugar cane grown in Brazil, which take relatively little energy to grow and is readily refined into fuel. He added that governments should focus on developing biofuels that did not require cropping, such as those from agricultural waste products. ''This land-use problem is not just a secondary effect -- it was often just a footnote in prior papers,'' Dr. Searchinger said. ''It is major.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (94%); EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); BIOMASS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); WRITERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); BIOLOGY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (62%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



209 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: '76 KISSES'

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
'76 KISSES' Cynics, stop reading now. The new exhibition at the City Reliquary, a museum devoted to New York artifacts and ephemera (think vintage seltzer bottles, trolley parts, the old 2nd Avenue Deli sign), is ''76 Kisses,'' a series of found photographs of people in various states of lip lock. The images, from the turn of the last century to the 1980s, are from the collection of Lori Baker and David E. Brown, a Brooklyn couple who met three years ago via the photo-sharing Web site Flickr.com. 
 ''There was no romantic intention,'' Ms. Baker said. ''We just had admired each other's work, and e-mailed.'' But they quickly discovered that each had been trolling flea markets, yard sales and eBay for amorous snapshots. ''Then when we finally met, it was that little bit of fireworks,'' Ms. Baker said.
 A romance, and a joint collection now numbering about 250 photos (above, an example), was born. The couple will attend the opening reception of their show on Friday. Later this month they are moving in together. (''I know, it's too cute,'' Ms. Baker said.)
 Romantics, read on: the opening reception is built around a kissing booth, staffed by volunteers, a man and a woman; each will kiss people of either sex. After some deliberation, Matt Levy, the (fair warning) mustachioed volunteer and events coordinator at the museum, said the Reliquary would charge $1 for two kisses. ''People will spend that kind of money,'' he said. ''Even though its a recession, there's a lot of kisses to give away.''
 He thought a minute and added, ''If you decide to get all French with it, we might charge $1'' each. But, he noted, that level of smooching has to be a mutual decision. ''And phone numbers can be bargained upon.'' (Reception, Friday from 7 to 9 p.m.; ''76 Kisses,'' through March 30, City Reliquary, 370 Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-782-4842, cityreliquary.org.) MELENA RYZIK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LORI BAKER AND DAVID E. BROWN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



210 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Newark's Recent Drop in Crime Highlights Mayor's Annual Speech

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM; Elizabeth Dwoskin contributed reporting.

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
Thursday night's State of the City speech was the annual occasion for Mayor Cory A. Booker to highlight his accomplishments and broadcast his grand plans, but for many here -- including, to a significant extent, Mr. Booker himself -- the actual state of the city can be summed up in a single digit: 2.
 That is how many murders there have been in Newark so far this year, down from 12 at this time last year. And, as Mayor Booker exulted, 109 fewer people were shot last year than in 2006, earning Newark plaudits from a national police executives' organization. 
 ''But it is still not enough,'' the mayor said, as he often does. He spoke of graduating new officers and opening new police precincts, but placed much of the burden of crime reduction on the city's residents -- especially on parents -- citing the threat from ''countless good citizens who refuse to stand up for their neighborhood and their city.'' 
 Mr. Booker delivered his hourlong speech at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, a symbol of the city's vaunted but still incomplete revival, and a venue selected in part because of the overflowing crowds that attended last year's speech at City Hall. 
 This year's audience of more than 500 was by invitation only; it included elected and appointed officials, community leaders, other city residents and students. Rahaman Muhammad, the head of the municipal workers' union, who has complained that the mayor is inaccessible, said he was not invited, but he went anyway. 
 But Mr. Muhammad was among many who said they were impressed by the crime reductions. ''Knock on wood,'' he said. ''Hopefully, it's going in the right direction.''
 Newark is not yet a city transformed, but over the course of the last year, there have been signs of real change, most apparent on a drive through downtown. A grand arena rose near City Hall, drawing thousands of outsiders into the city every week, and Broad Street, the vital downtown artery, has been restored to make it safer for pedestrians and more attractive to shoppers. 
 ''In 2007,'' the mayor said, ''we kept our focus, we kept our momentum and we continued to march toward what I believe to be Newark's certain destiny: to be America's leading city in urban transformation.''
 There have been complaints that improvements have not yet reached Newark's impoverished neighborhoods, but one city councilman, Ronald C. Rice, said in an interview before the mayor's speech that he had noticed change in his West Ward district.
 ''I ride the streets, and I've seen a decrease in the number of normal hot spots,'' he said. ''There are still drug dealers, but some blocks are cleaner.'' He added: ''I'm not ready to pat the police on the back and say, 'Job well done.' ''
 The Police Department was unable to provide crime statistics broken down by neighborhood on Thursday. 
 After a short video presentation, the mayor began his speech talking about the elderly, proposing financial assistance to the grandparents who raise more than 10 percent of the city's children. ''But for the love of their grandparents, many more of our children would be lost to lives of untold hardship,'' he said.
 The speech was full of ambitious new projects, though it was not immediately clear how quickly some of them would rise. Among them were a 60,000-square-foot children's museum, a 350-room hotel, and a residential loft building. Mr. Booker also announced a $40 million initiative to revive the city's parks and a new program to help the city's fathers improve their education and find work.
 Some of the evening's loudest applause was for a quiet achievement. The mayor announced that Altarik White, the popular coach who helped bring Weequahic High School a state football championship, had received a loan to open a Subway franchise with help from a fund for small and minority-owned businesses.
 As he spoke about the city's economic development, Mr. Booker said his administration was creating hundreds of jobs, even as it laid off municipal employees. He was unapologetic: The city, he said, did not exist simply to ''employ people at the taxpayers' expense.''
 The mayor spoke at length about Newark's children. According to recently released statistics by the Association for Children of New Jersey, an advocacy group, 33 children are removed every week from Newark homes where they are neglected or abused, and a third of the city's children live in poverty. 
 As the mayor concluded his remarks, his voice started to lift. ''We believe that we will create miracles in our sacred city,'' he said, as audience members urged him on. ''Let the world watch us rise.''
 Lisa Durden, a native Newarker and one of the invited guests, said when she tells people where she comes from, ''they clutch their pearls.'' From now on, she said, she would brag: about the Prudential Center, the new hotel and Newark's first Senior Citizen Olympics this year, another of the mayor's announcements.
 ''They're going to change their minds about Newark,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark gave his State of the City address Thursday night at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (91%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MURDER (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (52%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



211 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; TV REVIEW 'BERNARD AND DORIS'; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Very Rich, and Very Different From You and Me

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
''Bernard and Doris,'' a new HBO film directed by Bob Balaban, is like the most delectable kind of Vanity Fair article, one that doesn't leave you feeling guilty or venal or vaguely nuts for reveling in the particulars of great wealth even as you are made fully aware of all the isolating negatives. 
 A portrait of the relationship between the tobacco heiress Doris Duke (Susan Sarandon) and her self-destructive Irish butler, Bernard Lafferty (Ralph Fiennes), the film is extravagant in its detail and economic in its sentiment. Mr. Balaban asks us neither to pity nor to envy the vastly better off, but to marvel instead at the logistics of having all that money -- so much silver to polish, so many sapphires for Sotheby's to appraise. 
 Doris Duke's very existence was a job. She spent her life shuffling about from her place in New Jersey to her homes in Newport, Honolulu and Beverly Hills. She was the Devil in Mainbocher, the angel in a sari. She played with Imelda Marcos and prayed with Eastern mystics; she abused and she gave and she grew her portfolio. The first scene of the film (which makes its debut on Saturday) has her firing Mr. Lafferty's predecessor for serving her ice-cold cantaloupe; the final moments recount her enormous acts of charity. 
 Ms. Duke hated domestic improvisation -- never the Deco coffee pitcher, only the Christofle -- but Ms. Sarandon plays her with such finesse that the exacting demands almost seem necessary, as if she were simply the chief executive of a stately corporation dictating to middle management in the Beijing office. If you have ever felt overwhelmed decorating a one-bedroom apartment, you will think she should have been receiving overtime.
 Mr. Lafferty, who died in 1996, seemed to enjoy his role as the executor of her agenda. I say ''seemed'' because the specifics of this relationship are mostly imagined here. In 1987, battling alcoholism, he arrived at Ms. Duke's New Jersey estate, landing a job as her staff manager and right hand, a confidant to whom a childless Ms. Duke would eventually bequeath control of her fortune. What transpired between master and servant, from that point until Ms. Duke's death six years later, is envisioned here as a bonding dance between two wounded and well-meaning masochists. 
 The film portrays Doris Duke as a woman who apparently hated to be exploited but reveled in being used. One of her favorite sexual fantasies, Doris tells Bernard, involves her first husband's inquiry as to the sum of his annual allowance. It was made just before the couple's inaugural act of marital congress.
 While the weaker aspects of Doris's psychology are masked by her harridan persona, Bernard's are all on the surface, and Mr. Fiennes plays the role with exquisite abjection. Constantly tilting his head downward and receding, he appears to be leaving a room even when he is walking in. Sex surrounds Bernard in Doris's world -- his boss mounts lovers in front of the maids -- but Bernard, a repressed homosexual who keeps a picture of Elizabeth Taylor in his room, has no access to his own erotic life. At one point Doris tries to kiss him, and he appears to be not repulsed or confused but embarrassed, profoundly, at the idea of anyone, male or female, possessing a sexual interest in him. 
 The relationship remains platonic but attains the air of destiny when Doris has him sing something one night by the piano, a song to which Bernard can summon up all the lyrics: Peggy Lee's ''I Love the Way You're Breaking My Heart.'' They don't merely know it, they've also lived it over and over again. 
 By this point Bernard has fallen under Doris's uninhibited influence. He is growing his hair longer and wearing floral shirts and drinking again. Though he is dazzled by Doris's money and the dinner invitations from vice presidents and heads of state, what really mesmerizes him, the film subtly implies, is the sexual power he sees as one of wealth's many passports. 
 It is part of the film's understanding of class that money doesn't simply give you the freedom to acquire as much Islamic art as your estate can contain; it also lets you cavort with fewer judgments. Bad girls aren't quite so bad when they can buy and sell the sultan of Brunei.
 Doris Duke suffered and searched and seduced gardeners. She drank too much and died delusional. She might have been lonely, but she had fun. You won't feel sorry for her, but you may wonder where she found her wallpaper.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ralph Fiennes and Susan Sarandon in ''Bernard and Doris,'' directed by Bob Balaban. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN REGAN/HBO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); WILLS (67%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



212 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; VC NATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Taps Its Inner Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: Seattle 

 BODY:
 Many communities dream of becoming the next Silicon Valley. This one is actually doing it. 
 Stroll through the hip Fremont District and you will sense the Valley vibe. Google recently opened a research lab here, its second in Microsoft's backyard. Technology start-ups are sprouting up amid quirky neighborhood landmarks like a bronze statue of Lenin and the Fremont Troll, the giant concrete creature lurking beneath the George Washington Memorial Bridge. 
 More young companies are moving in downtown, near the art galleries and bookstores around Pioneer Square. Still others are spreading into the surrounding suburbs. 
 ''The Seattle start-up ecosystem is vibrant, and growing rapidly,'' said Oren Etzioni, an artificial-intelligence expert at the University of Washington and a serial technology entrepreneur. 
 The University of Washington, in fact, is one of the big draws. It is fostering the entrepreneurial climate here the way Stanford University does in Silicon Valley. Another advantage is the tech-savvy talent at the Seattle-based Amazon and nearby Microsoft. 
 Microsoft offshoots, sometimes called Baby Bills, after Bill Gates of Microsoft, are being joined by Amazon progeny called Baby Jeffs, for Amazon's Jeffrey P. Bezos. Baby Sergeys -- those formed by veterans of Google, which is based in Mountain View, Calif., and was co-founded by Sergey Brin -- are opening here, too, Mr. Etzioni said. 
 The influx of entrepreneurs and of venture capitalists to bankroll them is slowly reshaping this city and a regional economy long buffeted by the booms and busts of the aerospace and timber industries. A start-up ecosystem needs social networks, support businesses and a business culture that views failure as a badge of honor, not shame. All of that is in place in Seattle.
 Tom A. Alberg, a partner at the Madrona Venture Group, one of Seattle's leading venture capital firms and an early investor in Amazon, says the city is now home to a growing community of technology innovators who are willing to take risks. 
 ''People were more risk-averse in the '80s,'' said Mr. Alberg, who is on the board at Amazon. Madrona lost money on HomeGrocer, the Seattle-based online grocery service, he said, ''but if you never invest in a HomeGrocer, you will never invest in an Amazon.''
 Money is pouring in. During the last 12 years, venture capital investment here has more than tripled, to about $1 billion annually. Last year Washington tied with Texas as the third-largest destination for venture capital money nationwide, behind California and Massachusetts. 
 A crucial part of the chemistry is the University of Washington, in particular its computer science and electrical engineering departments. Washington State ranks first nationally in engineers employed for every 10,000 workers and in percent of total payroll in high technology. And then there are Amazon, Microsoft and their offspring. 
 ''Now tons of companies are spinning off people,'' said Ed Lazowska, a computer scientist who holds the Bill and Melinda Gates Chair at the University of Washington. Veterans from Amazon, Microsoft, RealNetworks and other established companies are leaving to form start-ups and venture funds, he said. ''We're finally at the stage of becoming a perpetual-motion machine.''
 Several generations of start-ups are beginning to cross-fertilize, fostering the kind of rapid growth seen in biological systems, said Mr. Etzioni, whose latest venture, Farecast, uses data-mining techniques to anticipate fluctuations in airfares. 
 One example of the growing start-up economy is Jackson Fish Market, a Web software company founded by three veteran Microsoft software designers. Inside a windowless loft in Pioneer Square, the company is now working on starting its third advertising-supported Web service.
 The start-up culture ''is beginning to work now,'' said Walter Smith, one of Jackson's founders, who worked on Microsoft's Vista operating system but left before it was introduced. ''Seattle is like an adolescent version of Silicon Valley.''
 Mr. Etzioni says Seattle has at least one advantage over its storied counterpart in California. ''People aren't distracted by too much sunshine,'' he said. ''They sit in their offices or garages and get creative.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Jenny Lam, Hillel Cooperman and Walter Smith of the software company Jackson Fish Market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); BOOKSTORES (70%); INTERNET RETAILING (67%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (60%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (54%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GOOGLE INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%); SERGEY BRIN (57%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



213 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Politics in Washington State Are Lively Though Puzzling

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Loggers, bloggers, farmers and philanthropists. Political relevance does not come around often for the distinctive mix of constituencies that keeps things lively here in the other Washington. So this Saturday, when presidential caucuses will be held statewide, people plan to make the most of it.
 Turnout is expected to be high, regardless of the usual February forecast for much of the state: rain. About 100,000 people participated in the caucuses in 2004. Twice that many could show up this time, according to some of the bolder predictions, and political experts note particular passion among Democrats over issues including the war in Iraq, health care and the environment. 
 The mystery, however, is which groups of voters will show up on Saturday in the biggest numbers -- and whether they can figure out the rules. 
 ''That's what we're working on right now, getting our Hillary supporters out to caucus because our base, women, are not really Democratic party activists who go to caucuses,'' said Linda Mitchell, president of the National Women's Political Caucus of Washington and a backer of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. ''They're usually working, or they are taking care of children.''
 ''Plus,'' Ms. Mitchell said, ''we've got this other factor with the primary that's also going on. There's a lot of people who aren't engaged in the process who think they've already voted for Hillary Clinton.'' 
 Come again? If Ms. Mitchell sounds as if she is shrewdly trying to limit expectations for Mrs. Clinton, she also has a point. 
 Things here are mighty confusing.
 While Democrats and Republicans are holding party caucuses on Saturday, people can also vote in a statewide primary on Feb. 19. Mail-in ballots for the primary, which are widely used, went out to voters last month. Voters can participate in both the caucuses and the primary.
 State officials have hoped the February primary, first approved in 1988, would allow more people to participate, but the parties control the awarding of delegates. The Democrats will award 78 of their 97 delegates based on Saturday's caucuses, with the rest determined by so-called super delegates, not the primary, as has been the practice for decades. 
 Republicans offer a different twist. About half of their 40 delegates will be awarded at the caucuses, and most of the rest will be from the results of the primary. Oh, and Republican delegates assigned at the caucus can decide to switch to another candidate later. 
 ''I describe it as a fluid process,'' said Luke Esser, chairman of the Washington State Republican Party.
 With the withdrawal of Mitt Romney from the Republican race on Thursday making Senator John McCain the overwhelming favorite for the nomination, the Democratic caucuses here are drawing the most interest. 
 Mrs. Clinton, of New York, spoke Thursday at a rally on the Seattle waterfront. Senator Barack Obama of Illinois is set to make two appearances on Friday, one at Key Arena beneath the Space Needle, and at ''an alternative energy event as well, less of a big crowd thing, more a policy discussion,'' said Representative Adam Smith, who is chairman of the Obama campaign in Washington. Mr. Obama's wife, Michelle, plans to visit Spokane on Friday.
 Mr. Obama has raised nearly twice as much money in the state as Mrs. Clinton, and experts say his campaign's success at energizing and organizing certain blocs of voters for caucuses in other states could continue here. Mr. Obama is hoping to attract environmentalists, young and first-time voters (including those among the 40,000 students at the University of Washington), as well as well-educated, often wealthier professionals in Seattle and its suburbs and some independents and Republicans. 
 ''We would expect if those trends of education and income and age hold, he probably would have an advantage here,'' said Matt Barreto, an assistant professor of political science at the University of Washington who helps run the nonpartisan Washington Poll.
 Galen Main, 23, a graduate student in social work, said she was cynical about politics before she learned about Mr. Obama. Now she is volunteering for his campaign.
 ''Obama can get more done because he'll get more people involved,'' she said. ''That's the only way we can hold government accountable is to have the masses really care.''
 Mrs. Clinton has deep loyalty here among working-class Democrats and women, who vote in larger numbers than men and have helped elect the state's two female senators and governor. 
 The Clinton campaign also hopes voters in this technology-centered, trade-dependent state remember how the economy expanded under former President Bill Clinton's administration.
 ''I think this is going to be a whole lot more about how good life was when we had a Democratic president and 'remember how you in Washington State were able to build an economy that's been able to withstand all the gloom and doom we're seeing right now nationally,' '' said Cathy Allen, a longtime Democratic strategist here who is on the steering committee for the Clinton campaign.
 Mrs. Clinton has collected endorsements from some of the most prominent Democrats in the state, including Senators Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray and the popular King County executive Ron Sims. Mayor Greg Nickels of Seattle and more than two dozen state lawmakers are supporting Mr. Obama.
 Jay Ubelhart, a ferry boat deck hand and a member of the Inlandboatmen's Union of the Pacific, said he was interested in Mr. Obama but liked Mrs. Clinton's health care plans more. He said he also worried that Mr. Obama's race would prevent voters elsewhere from supporting him in a general election.
 ''It's the 'ideas' campaign,'' Mr. Ubelhart said, referring to the Obama campaign, ''but the object is to get a Democratic president into the White House.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GALEN MAIN: A graduate student in social work who said she used to be cynical about politics before she learned about Barack Obama. Now she volunteers.
 JAY UBELHART: A union member who thinks a Clinton ticket may be more electable.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (92%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); SUPERDELEGATES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



214 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAMPAIGNS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Is Cutting Back

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: Wall Street's woe 

 BODY:
falling stock prices and a shaky economy -- may be affecting campaign fund-raising. The Center for Responsive Politics reports a big drop in campaign contributions from Wall Street in the fourth quarter, just as the markets began to tumble. In the first quarter of 2007, Wall Street gave a total of $10 million to all presidential candidates. That fell to $4.5 million by the last three months of the year. 
 Some of those titans of finance may have been tapped out, having already given the legal maximum of $2,300 in the primary races. 
 For the year, the big Wall Street winners were Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, who got $5.8 million from the financial industry and Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, who got $5.3 million. Over all, Wall Street gave $29 million last year, with 56 percent going to Democratic candidates. 
 Still, Wall Street likes a contrarian bet. Representative Ron Paul and Mike Huckabee, both Republicans, and Gov. Bill Richardson and Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, Democrats, were the only candidates to get more from Wall Street in the fourth quarter than they did in the first. LESLIE WAYNE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RON PAUL (58%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



215 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: In the Depths of a Credit Crisis, Its Creators Revel in Las Vegas

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
It was Monday night on the Strip, and John Devaney was giving a party for himself and fellow connoisseurs of risk who have seen their hot hands go cold.
 In a gilded ballroom at the Venetian, the revelers sipped cabernet, dined on surf and turf and crowed as the Blue Man Group put on a private show. 
 The partygoers had traveled to Sin City this week -- Mr. Devaney by chartered jet -- for an event that before the current credit squeeze might have been called the Predators' Ball of this era. 
 This time, with mortgage securities replacing the junk bonds of the 1980s, the gathering felt more like group therapy. 
 The occasion was, officially, the 5th annual conference of the American Securitization Forum, a celebration of the financial wizardry that supposedly turns risky mortgages and other loans into gilt-edged securities but, as Mr. Devaney belatedly discovered, does not always make them safe. Mr. Devaney, a 37-year-old money manager, lost big on bond investments last year. This week, in Las Vegas fashion, he said he was doubling down. 
 The four-day event at the Venetian drew more than 6,500 financial professionals from across the country. Many came in search of ways to ride out -- or better yet, to profit from -- the mortgage mess their industry helped to create. 
 Wall Street banks played a crucial role in the mortgage crisis by buying home loans and bundling them into securities. Regulators are examining whether investment banks and mortgage lenders hid the risks of subprime debt from investors. 
 While the mood was more somber than in years past, when home prices were soaring and mortgage lending boomed, there was plenty of fun and games. Countrywide Financial, the troubled lender that has come to symbolize some of the excesses of the mortgage business, was the host of a party on Sunday night where people cheered while watching the Super Bowl on big-screen televisions. On Monday came the gala dinner sponsored by Mr. Devaney. On Tuesday the conference organized an outing on a golf course near the California border. 
 Between such revels, attendees spent their time in meeting rooms with golden trim, listening to panel discussions with titles like ''Transparency, Valuation and Rebuilding Investor Confidence'' and ''Legislation, Regulation and Market Oversight -- A Global Review.'' 
 At the conference last year, Mr. Devaney grabbed headlines -- and was proved prophetic -- when he said he hated subprime mortgage securities and was ''hoping the whole thing explodes.'' In March, before he incurred his big losses, he told The New York Times he was hoping to expand and diversify his trading business. 
 This year, Mr. Devaney, a brash bond trader, said he had grown cocky during the mortgage boom and paid the price. A hedge fund run by his company, United Capital Markets, plummeted last year, and he lost $100 million. The rout prompted him to sell a mansion on Key Biscayne, near Miami, his private jet and his yacht, Positive Carry, named after a financial maneuver in which the cost of financing an investment is less than the return obtained from it.
 Mr. Devaney has, however, profited from turbulent markets in the past, and made his name earlier this decade trading troubled bonds backed by trailer home loans and business-franchise loans.
 ''In a funny way I want to thank the market for dealing me a direct hit,'' Mr. Devaney said during one panel discussion, drawing laughter from the crowd. ''As a trader, if you make money for too many years you lose sight of risk unless you get sucker- punched.''
 Mr. Devaney said he was now buying beaten-down bonds for pennies on the dollar, betting their prices would revive. 
 But his financial troubles are small compared with losses in the housing market and broader economy. Many people are struggling to pay their mortgages and hold on to their homes. Nearly a quarter of home loans made to people with blemished, or subprime, credit are delinquent or in foreclosure, and defaults now are rising even on loans made to people with good credit. Some of the people who attended the Las Vegas gathering had recently lost their jobs and came hoping to find new ones.
 At times, the unease here was palpable. During one panel discussion, a money manager stood up and denounced credit ratings agencies, which many investors have criticized for underestimating the risks posed by securities backed by subprime loans. In the last 12 months, the ratings firms have downgraded many securities they had awarded high marks to only a year or two earlier.
 ''In my 38 years this has been the worst capital destruction and the worst rating decline in history,'' Robert L. Rodriguez, the chief executive of First Pacific Advisors, a mutual fund company based in Los Angeles, said to a panel of four executives from ratings firms. ''All of you should be ashamed of yourself.''
 The lashing elicited scattered applause. The panelists listened, their lips pursed. Some then admitted making some mistakes but said most investors in top-rated triple-A securities would get their money back.
 ''We all have heard a lot of criticism over the last several months, and some of that criticism is certainly justified,'' said Glenn Costello, co-head of the residential mortgage-backed securities group at Fitch Ratings. But he added that a frequent criticism of ratings firms -- that they are beholden to the investment banks and mortgage companies whose securities they rate -- reflected ''a real lack of understanding of how we as ratings agencies go about doing what we do.''
 During another discussion, managers of much-maligned collateralized debt obligations -- packages of bonds that are packages of other debt -- criticized the media for what they said was negative coverage of the securities. Most of the speakers on that panel asked that reporters be allowed in the session only if they did not directly quote their remarks or did so with their permission. 
 But other managers and bankers said investors and journalists were right to question why so much wealth was destroyed so quickly. As for the view that some securities are trading at far lower prices than they deserved to be, Len Blum, a managing director at Westwood Capital, a boutique investment bank based in New York, said investors always overreacted to bad news, just as they overreacted to good news.
 ''The market always paints with a broad brush,'' he said. 
 Another banker, Joseph M. Donovan, said the hand-wringing was overdone. He said what ailed the market was clear, but added that solutions would take time. 
 In his estimation, defaults are highest in cases where lenders take too many risks because neither they nor borrowers have much to lose. Mortgage companies sold the loans to Wall Street banks, and homeowners did not put any money down. Mr. Donovan, a retired Credit Suisse executive, said the packagers of the securities and investors took false comfort from the diversity of loans backing their securities.
 ''We need to step back and take a breather,'' he said. ''I don't think there is anything fundamentally wrong.'' Mr. Devaney, the bond trader, generally agrees with Mr. Donovan, whom he regards as a mentor. 
 Standing near a conference booth for Standard & Poor's, the ratings firm, Mr. Devaney said to a fellow trader that he should buy bonds backed by second mortgages trading at deep discounts.
 ''I am buying things at 10 to 15 cents'' on the dollar, Mr. Devaney boasted. The other trader, who did not consent to being identified, said he was worried that the bond prices mightfall more. 
 Later, Mr. Devaney himself seemed to have second thoughts. 
 ''I'm worried I won't be able to call the bottom,'' he said. But he quickly regained his old confidence. ''Most of the stuff I have has limited downside,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Devaney, a money manager, lost on bond investments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); SECURITIZATION (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); GOLF (66%); BANK FAILURES (65%); HOME PRICES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MAN GROUP PLC (58%)

TICKER: EMG (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN DEVANEY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



216 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: A Determined Rice, in Taliban Country, Exhorts NATO to Do More to Press the War

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Vilnius.

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice ventured to Kandahar on Thursday, deep in the belly of the Taliban insurgency, in a surprise trip to southern Afghanistan to send a message that the United States and NATO will press the war here despite the increase in Taliban attacks.
 In a coordinated visit with David Miliband, the British foreign secretary, Ms. Rice called on NATO members to increase the number of troops in Afghanistan, describing the war as a counterinsurgency led by NATO and the Afghan government that neither could afford to lose. 
 ''Obviously, the Afghan government has responsibility, too,'' Ms. Rice told reporters on the plane en route to Afghanistan. But, she added, ''this is a two-way street and everybody has to step back and concern themselves with the Taliban.''
 In Vilnius, Lithuania, on Thursday, the United States defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, also asked allies for more troops, and he said that NATO was not in crisis and that the Afghan mission was not failing.
 ''I don't think that there's a crisis, that there's a risk of failure,'' Mr. Gates said. ''My view is that it represents, potentially, the opportunity to make further progress faster in Afghanistan if we had more forces there.''
 Those comments, during an informal session of defense ministers in Vilnius, came one day after he warned Congress that the alliance risked becoming a ''two tiered'' organization, with ''some allies willing to fight and die to protect people's security, and others who are not.'' 
 In Kabul on Thursday afternoon, after the trip to Kandahar, Ms. Rice and Mr. Miliband pressed President Hamid Karzai to accept an international special envoy for Afghanistan. Their talks came after a month of contentiousness between Mr. Karzai and Britain and the United States, beginning with Mr. Karzai's rejection of the British diplomat Paddy Ashdown as a special envoy. 
 Afghan officials said Mr. Ashdown had been rejected because of negative press and public reaction to his appointment, but diplomats said it had more to do with Mr. Karzai's desire, one year before Afghan elections, to improve his image by standing up to Western powers. 
 During a news conference at Mr. Karzai's heavily fortified palace in Kabul, the three delicately danced around the Ashdown dispute. ''I'm very, very sorry Mr. Ashdown could not begin his job,'' Mr. Karzai said, portraying it as not his decision. ''It's a personal matter of unhappiness to me.'' 
 In deference to Mr. Karzai's sovereignty issues, Ms. Rice said she could see why Afghan leaders might get squeamish, particularly given the number of countries in NATO that have their own ideas of what to do here. ''There are a lot of cooks in the kitchen,'' she said. ''I can understand why there could be confusion, and we owe it to President Karzai to have an effective international coordinator.''
 The skirmishing highlights the multiple fronts where the Bush administration is battling as it tries to rein in what many critics say is a deteriorating security situation. With 42,000 NATO troops stationed here, tension has been growing between Mr. Karzai's government and the West, particularly Britain, over sovereignty. The special envoy issue has been widely covered in the Afghan media, touching sensitivities about foreign interference and fears of colonial intentions by Britain and others. 
 Mr. Karzai has had other disagreements with Britain recently, in particular over its handling of the Taliban insurgency and the booming opium trade in Helmand Province, where British troops are deployed. At the World Economic Forum in Davos last month, Mr. Karzai reportedly criticized the British forces in Helmand, complaining that they had forced him to remove the provincial government and police force in 2006, leaving a vacuum the British failed to fill, and allowing the Taliban to surge in.
 Asked about that criticism, Mr. Karzai said he was misquoted, adding that he had a meeting with Prime Minister Gordon Brown the next day because he was embarrassed at what he had been quoted as saying. He went out of his way during the news conference on Thursday to express gratitude to NATO.
 Mr. Miliband said the decision to visit Kandahar, once a Taliban stronghold, reflected its ''iconic status in the history and position of Afghanistan.'' 
 While in Kandahar, Mr. Miliband and Ms. Rice sought to rally the troops at the regional NATO headquarters at the city's airfield. 
 ''We knew 2007 was going to be a tough year, but I think it was a tougher year for the Taliban,'' Mr. Miliband said. ''As the debate hots up in our countries about what you're doing here, we want you to know that we're going to defend you.'' 
 An increase in the number of Taliban suicide bombings in southern Afghanistan has heightened concerns that despite the presence of NATO forces -- nearly three-quarters of them American -- the country is slipping toward anarchy. 
 Even as Ms. Rice and Mr. Miliband taxied for takeoff from London on Wednesday night to begin their trip -- Ms. Rice's first here since June 2006 -- the State Department issued a travel bulletin advising Americans against travel to Afghanistan. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice as she was followed into a news conference on Thursday in Kabul by the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, and Britain's foreign secretary, David Miliband. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAFIQ MAQBOOL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%); HAMAD KARZAI (89%); DAVID MILIBAND (79%); ROBERT M GATES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); LITHUANIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



217 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Congress Votes For a Stimulus Of $168 Billion

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Moving with uncommon speed, Congress gave final approval on Thursday to a $168 billion economic rescue package, including rebates for taxpayers and tax breaks for businesses, that lawmakers and President Bush hope will set off a rush of springtime spending and spark the slowing economy. 
 A day after the Senate seemed mired in a partisan feud over a more expensive stimulus plan favored by Democrats, lawmakers cast that quarrel aside and approved a plan nearly identical to one the House adopted last week. 
 The Senate, voting 81 to 16, slightly expanded the House plan to include payments for some 20 million Social Security recipients and 250,000 disabled veterans who would not have qualified because they do not earn income. The final measure also specifies that illegal immigrant workers not receive payments. 
 The House swiftly approved those changes by a vote of 380 to 34 and sent the bill to the White House, where Mr. Bush had already said he would sign it. 
 Given the deep divisions over Iraq, children's health insurance, spending levels and other issues that at times brought Congressional action to a halt last year, the approval of the economic package was notably swift. It came precisely two weeks after Mr. Bush told Congressional leaders that he wanted a plan.
 ''This plan is robust, broad based, timely, and it will be effective,'' he said in a statement.
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi, at a rare joint news conference featuring all four Congressional leaders and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., declared: ''We are making history. What has passed the Congress in record time is a gift to the middle class and those who aspire to it in our country.'' 
 The plan will provide tax rebates of up to $600 for individuals and up to $1,200 for couples filing jointly, with an additional payment for families of $300 a child, and a minimum payment of $300 for individuals who pay less than that in income taxes. 
 Payments will be reduced for individuals with adjusted gross incomes above $75,000 and couples with incomes above $150,000, with the wealthiest taxpayers receiving nothing. The Treasury Department said checks would be distributed beginning in early May, after the crush of the tax filing season. 
 The rebates and the business incentives, including a doubling to $250,000 from $125,000 in the amount of expenses businesses can immediately write off, are intended to jolt the slowing economy with new spending. 
 The package will cost roughly $168 billion over two years compared with $161 billion for the original House plan. About $152 billion would be injected into the economy this year. 
 Many economists say government action is needed to forestall or shorten a recession, but some questioned whether the plan would work quickly enough because rebate checks would not go out for 12 more weeks.
 A minority of lawmakers also questioned whether the package was the right medicine, arguing that it did not do enough to help distressed homeowners and that it would even harm the economy by increasing the deficit.
 Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, said Congress had taken $150 billion and thrown it ''into a mud puddle.'' 
 The Senate deal on Thursday capped a tense standoff between Republican leaders, who had called for simply adopting the House plan, and Democrats, who had pushed their own, more expansive plan, only for Republicans to block it by a one-vote margin on Wednesday.
 Even on Thursday morning, the outcome was far from certain. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, continued his struggle to muster one more Republican vote in support of the Senate Democrats' package. 
 On Wednesday, 8 Republicans had joined 49 Democrats and 2 independents in support of that package, leaving Mr. Reid one vote shy of the 60 needed to overcome a Republican filibuster. 
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, the likely Republican presidential nominee who did not vote on Wednesday, voted in favor of the plan on Thursday. 
 Mr. Reid said Monday that he would give Republicans only two choices: the more expansive, and expensive, stimulus plan sought by Democrats; or the House package without adding in Social Security recipients and disabled veterans. 
 The larger plan would have included increased home-energy subsidies for low-income families, extended unemployment benefits, tax credits for alternative energy and tax incentives for the coal industry. 
 Mr. Reid had tried using the home-heating subsidies to press Republican senators from cold-weather states to back his plan. And he enlisted AARP and other powerful interest groups to push for the Democrats' plan. 
 Mr. Reid also brazenly waved off assertions by Republicans that he would ultimately relent. ''We should go for the whole package,'' he said. ''Wait until we have this vote and they'll find out if I am bluffing. I am not much of a bluffer.'' 
 In the end, Mr. Reid had bluffed -- he ultimately shook hands on an agreement that provided those increases and no others -- but said he had charted a necessary course to get the best possible package. 
 Democrats said they would move ahead with a separate bill to provide assistance related to the decline in the housing market, including bonds that would let states help homeowners at risk of foreclosure.
 In a nod to the housing problems, the stimulus plan will increase the limits on home loans that can be purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored finance companies, and on loans that can be insured by the Federal Housing administration. The one-year increases will make it easier to refinance loans or obtain new mortgages in expensive markets. The new limits will vary based on local conditions.
 Mr. Reid also suggested that some Republicans would pay a political price for voting against extended unemployment benefits, home-heating subsidies and other initiatives he had pressed. Almost immediately after the vote, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee issued a statement criticizing Senator John Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire, for opposing new home-heating subsidies.
 Mr. Sununu, anticipating such an attack, had already issued a statement saying that his ''steadfast'' support for the heating program was well known and accused Democrats of ''back-room dealing'' he called ''disgraceful.'' 
 While the bill was passed well ahead of the mid-February deadline that lawmakers had initially set, the rancor in the Senate in recent days was a far cry from the tough, bipartisan negotiations that Ms. Pelosi and the Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, quickly hashed through in the House. 
 In those talks, Ms. Pelosi dropped Democrats' demands for an extension in unemployment benefits and an increase in food stamps, two strategies that economists rate highly for providing a quick stimulative effect, and instead agreed to a plan centered on the tax rebates favored by House Republicans and the Bush administration. 
 The Republicans, in turn, agreed to make payments to more than 35 million families who do not pay enough income taxes to receive rebates. In the Senate, however, Democrats fought hard for their own plan. 
 Still, by the end of the night both sides were boasting of a job well done and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said at the news conference that he expected that the country would be pleasantly surprised. 
 ''All across America, the American people are probably adjusting their television sets,'' he said, ''trying to understand how the five of us ended up in the same place.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, and Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, after Thursday's deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); APPROVALS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); FAMILY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (69%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); SALES REBATES (58%); IMMIGRATION (54%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); HARRY REID (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



218 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: D.R. Horton Reports a Steep Loss

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
D. R. Horton, the largest American home builder, is the latest company to post results reflecting the depressed housing market. 
 The company posted a first-quarter loss on Thursday, as sales fell by more than a third and new orders dropped 61 percent. 
 Its shares rose 23 cents, to $15.04. The housing market has been in a downturn for more than two years, with demand falling and builders cutting prices amid dwindling orders. 
 On Thursday, the National Association of Realtors said pending sales of existing homes fell by a greater-than-expected 1.5 percent in December and 24.2 percent from a year earlier.
 Markets like California, Las Vegas and Arizona, where builders once could not get enough land to fill demand, are now moribund and weigh on the balance sheets of the companies.
 ''I don't see a recovering California in the next 12 months,'' D. R. Horton's chief executive, Donald J. Tomnitz, said in an analysts' conference call.
 D. R. Horton posted a loss of $128.8 million, or 41 cents a share, for the first quarter ended Dec. 31, in contrast to a year-earlier profit of $109.7 million, or 35 cents a share.
 The results included land impairment and write-off charges totaling $245.5 million. First-quarter home-building revenue fell 39 percent, to $1.71 billion. 
 A smaller builder, M.D.C. Holdings, reported Thursday that it had a fourth-quarter net loss of $281.1 million, or $6.14 a share, compared with a net loss of $6.4 million, or 14 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter, on larger charges. Its sales and orders also dropped sharply.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (53%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: D R HORTON INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%)

TICKER: DHI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%)

PERSON: DONALD J TOMNITZ (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



219 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: Challenges and Miscalculations Dogged Romney From the Start

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Adam Nagourney contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With Mitt Romney's campaign for president nearly in tatters, he huddled with his senior advisers on Wednesday morning, jotting notes with pen and paper, to go over his options. 
 By the time the meeting ended, he seemed to want to stay in the race. His campaign went ahead with voter-turnout calls in Kansas and Washington for caucuses on Saturday, and priced out what it would take to compete in primaries next week in Virginia, Maryland and Washington, D.C.
 His son Tagg, a senior campaign adviser, urged him to continue, but by evening, Mr. Romney had decided to pull out. He then phoned each of his sons individually to break the news.
 Another son, Matt Romney, said: ''I just couldn't be anything but absolutely proud of him. I'm so proud of his fight.'' 
 If Mr. Romney's campaign were condensed to one of his trademark PowerPoint presentations, it would have had all the bullet points foretelling success: a multimillionaire candidate willing to relinquish his fortune to run, an unsettled Republican field and a candidate whose championing of conservative positions could motivate the party's base.
 Yet Mr. Romney's advisers acknowledged Thursday an array of tactical missteps and miscalculations. Perhaps most significantly, they conceded that they had failed to overcome doubts about Mr. Romney's authenticity as they sought to position him as the most electable conservative in the race, a jarring contrast to his more moderate record as governor of Massachusetts. And during the January nominating contests, as his opponents attacked his shifting on issues, polls showed his favorability ratings plummeting. 
 Mr. Romney spent more than $35 million of his own money trying to get himself elected, but his campaign faced challenges from the start, some from obstacles beyond his control.
 Suspicions about Mr. Romney's Mormon faith consumed his campaign early on, only to seem to fade from view. But his advisers and outside experts agree that the unease ultimately helped pave the way for Mike Huckabee, a former Southern Baptist pastor, to emerge from the backbench of the Republican field to win the Iowa caucuses, a central, costly goal of Mr. Romney's strategy. Then Mr. Romney's aides failed to anticipate the collapse of Rudolph W. Giuliani's candidacy, leaving no one to halt Senator John McCain's resurgence among moderate Republicans and independents. 
 ''You had a Rudy Giuliani who wound up not being really competitive, and you had a candidate who emerged on the right,'' said Carl Forti, the Romney campaign's political director. ''When a candidate emerged on the right and with no one to check McCain on the left, it gave him more room to grow, and we were in the middle.''
 But in an election cycle in which authenticity is an overriding concern among voters, the perception of Mr. Romney remaking himself into a Reagan-like figure through his positioning on issues like abortion rights and gun control exposed him to biting, often mocking attacks from his rivals, who were almost universal in their scorn of him. His fellow Republicans used the flip-flopping accusations to reframe everything he did. Even in the final hours of Mr. Romney's candidacy, Mr. McCain was running advertising suggesting Mr. Romney had shifted radically in his view of Ronald Reagan.
 The authenticity issue was a problem his advisers recognized early on. As Mr. Romney was laying the groundwork for his run back in 2006, Alex Castellanos, one of the campaign's chief media strategists, put together a 77-slide PowerPoint presentation, first reported by The Boston Globe, which listed some of Mr. Romney's vulnerabilities, including the perception of him as an ideological panderer, as well as his Mormonism and his inexperience in military affairs. 
 But his advisers perceived there was a gap in the field for an electable conservative and pounced on that opportunity in recasting Mr. Romney's image. They believed that he could overcome the more moderate views he had espoused in the past as governor of Massachusetts and while running for the Senate in 1994 against Edward M. Kennedy by being up front about his most obvious change on abortion. They also spotlighted Mr. Romney's family, arguing he lived his values and that examining his beliefs up close would reveal that his inner convictions were conservative.
 ''Ultimately, we thought if we put everything into the crucible, people would say, 'Wait, this guy is conservative, and he's honest and straightforward,' '' said Alex Gage, Mr. Romney's director of strategy.
 But Mr. Gage acknowledged that in Mr. Romney's rush to beat back the attacks questioning his conservative credentials, he may have swung too far in the other direction, ultimately taking some of the most-pronounced stands against illegal immigration and social issues.
 ''Maybe we overcompensated,'' Mr. Gage said.
 Competing against far better-known candidates, the campaign's strategy from the beginning was to ''win early and often,'' backed by an unprecedented early advertising strategy that resulted in the campaign spending more than $30 million on television commercials.
 One of the campaign's fears all along was that someone would outflank them on the right. Some called this imaginary candidate, ''Huckafred,'' a reference to Mr. Huckabee and former Senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee, who many perceived would be a savior to conservatives. 
 Mr. Huckabee's sudden emergence in November still caught many of his advisers by surprise, although Gentry Collins, Mr. Romney's Iowa state director, had sounded an early alarm about him.
 There had been some divisions within the campaign in the fall about whether to run negative commercials or even mailings against opponents. But Mr. Romney's advisers ultimately came to a consensus that they needed to go after Mr. Huckabee directly. The result was a blitz of ''contrast'' advertisements that attacked him on a range of issues. 
 Yet even with a textbook turnout operation in Iowa, in which the campaign exceeded its targets for getting its supporters to the polls, Mr. Huckabee beat Mr. Romney handily as evangelicals turned out to vote in record-breaking numbers. 
 It was at a meeting at a hotel conference room in Portsmouth, N.H., the following day, in which the campaign sought to rebound, that Mr. Romney blurted out the slogan the campaign would adopt for the rest of his run, that ''Washington is broken.'' He even began jotting down a ''to-do'' list of items that needed to get done in Washington. 
 The campaign seized on the utterance, and scrambled to get banners made up for the next day. When Mr. Romney showed up at an Ask Mitt Anything forum at a school in Derry, N.H., he was flanked by the ''Washington is Broken'' sign that would become a staple at his events.
 Meanwhile, the campaign was also attacking Mr. McCain over the airwaves, something some of Mr. Romney's advisers said afterward may not have been such a good idea, given Mr. McCain's high favorability ratings across the board in New Hampshire. 
 The attack advertisements paved the way for a devastating counterattack from the McCain campaign, and what many of Mr. Romney's advisers believe was the most effective commercial of the election cycle, a negative advertisement that cited quotes from newspaper editorials to make the case that Mr. Romney was a fake.
 In the end, even though Mr. Romney's aides contended he found his voice in New Hampshire, he wound up losing the state as well.
 Brewing behind the scenes was a rancorous dispute over advertising strategy, pitting Mr. Castellanos, who had been the quarterback of Mr. Romney's ad team, against Stuart Stevens and Russ Schriefer, advertising men who joined the campaign in the fall from Mr. McCain's campaign after it stalled.
 Mr. Romney had always relished vigorous disagreement during meetings to ensure opposing views were heard, but after New Hampshire it was Mr. Stevens and Mr. Schriefer who won out, with Mr. Castellanos largely sidelined. 
 Mr. Romney rebounded with a convincing victory in Michigan, aided by the growing economic jitters gripping the country, which played nicely into his business background. He was also able to emphasize his personal roots in Michigan, where he was born and raised and his father, George, was a popular governor.
 Florida would become the site of a pivotal showdown with Mr. McCain. Mr. Romney's advisers contend he was winning the state until Mr. McCain scored the last-minute endorsements of Senator Mel Martinez and Gov. Charlie Crist. 
 Mr. Romney tried to shift gears again heading into the crush of states voting last Tuesday, portraying his battle with Mr. McCain as a fight for the future of the Republican Party.
 The campaign chose to make its stand in California, spending $1.7 million in advertising there, as well as a host of states holding caucuses or conventions, and hoped to pick off other primary states, like Georgia or Missouri. 
 After Mr. Romney's advisers retreated to their Boston headquarters on Tuesday night to watch the returns, the news got progressively worse as the evening wore on. 
 Nevertheless, Mr. Romney was his usual buoyant self the next day when he showed up with his wife, Ann. He huddled with his senior advisers in a conference room, where they laid out the reality that he faced almost insurmountable odds.
 ''We had very kind of frank discussion,'' Mr. Schriefer said. ''His magic number was very high, and McCain's was very low. 
 But there was discussion about how Mr. Romney might be able to prevent Mr. McCain from reaching the requisite number of delegates as well and take the fight all the way to the convention.
 Afterward, Mr. Romney delivered a rousing pep talk to his campaign staff on the first floor and left to mull over his decision. 
 That evening, Tagg Romney, who lives on the same street as his parents, came over and the elder Romney told his son he had decided to pull out, citing the importance of uniting the party around a candidate with the nation at war.
 ''Most of us wanted to keep battling,'' Tagg Romney said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney with Ann Romney at a conservative conference on Thursday in Washington. He tried to become a Reagan-like figure through issues like abortion rights and gun control. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); RELIGION (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



220 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Court Bars Sale of Billions in Oil Assets Held by Venezuela

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
The oil giant Exxon Mobilhas won court orders freezing as much as $12 billion in petroleum assets controlled by Venezuela's government in an escalation of a dispute over efforts by President Hugo Chavez to assert greater control over the country's oil industry. 
 Venezuela's dollar-denominated bonds suffered their steepest drop in six months on Thursday on concerns that Mr. Chavez's government could face a protracted legal battle with Exxon, preventing the government from raising cash through the sale of refineries abroad if the economy here slows after years of torrid growth. 
 Investors are also increasingly concerned about the financial health of the national oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela, amid reports that its debt is ballooning as its output declines. 
 The oil company is the largest single source of revenue for Mr. Chavez's government, financing an array of social welfare projects and foreign aid to leftist allies. 
 ''This is a big blow against Venezuela,'' said Pietro Pitts, an oil analyst who publishes Latin Petroleum, an industry magazine based here. ''It could set an important precedent for other multinationals threatened by Venezuela's government.'' 
 After Mr. Chavez's move to take control of large oil ventures last year, Exxon dug in for a fight. While Chevron and other companies accepted the terms imposed by Mr. Chavez, Exxon aggressively sought to prevent Venezuela from transferring control of foreign-based oil assets to entities here ahead of arbitration proceedings. 
 In recent days, Exxon won a court order from the High Court of London prohibiting Petroleos de Venezuela from selling assets worldwide up to a value of $12 billion, Margaret Ross, an Exxon spokeswoman in Houston, said in a statement. Exxon won similar orders in the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles for assets worth up to $12 billion. 
 And in New York, Exxon won an order freezing $300 million of Petroleos de Venezuela's assets. Despite a deterioration of political relations between Caracas and Washington, Venezuela remains a major trading partner with the United States, ranking as its fourth-largest supplier of imported crude oil. 
 Venezuela's government also controls Citgo Petroleum of Houston, which operates refineries in Illinois, Louisiana and Texas. 
 Mr. Chavez's government has compensated American companies in previous nationalizations of their assets when it was faced with the possibility of losing control of Citgo and other foreign assets in retaliation. 
 A spokesman for Petroleos de Venezuela did not return calls seeking comment. The company is expected to appeal the rulings. The dispute may raise borrowing costs for Petroleos de Venezuela, which is being reconfigured by Mr. Chavez to focus on pressing social concerns. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (97%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); DIVESTITURES (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); BONDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (95%); PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (90%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



221 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, a Softer Stance on Rate Cuts

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
Abandoning recent threats to raise interest rates, the European Central Bank hinted Thursday that it would soon follow the Federal Reserve's lead and cut them. The move, coming the same day the Bank of England decided to cut rates, highlighted rising fears of an economic slowdown. 
 The European bank said a cooling United States economy and financial market turbulence were taking a toll on the 15-nation euro zone. That assessment, given after the bank left its benchmark rate unchanged at 4 percent, appears to pave the way for a lowering of rates later this year. 
 Just last month, the bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, threatened to ''pre-emptively'' raise borrowing costs. At the time, he fretted that labor unions would seek wage deals that combined with higher energy costs would raise inflation. On Thursday, he sounded more cautious.
 ''While the economic fundamentals of the euro area are sound, incoming data have confirmed that the risks surrounding the outlook for economic activity lie to the downside,'' Mr. Trichet said. 
 After the Federal Reserve reduced its benchmark rate twice in late January, the European bank was criticized for refusing to consider whether easier credit would benefit Europe. Growth on the Continent is under pressure from a seemingly imminent American recession, a strong euro and high oil prices. Business confidence surveys and other data point toward a slowdown.
 Yet as recently as two weeks ago, Mr. Trichet emphasized the bank's commitment to fighting inflation, suggesting that it would not back off its threat to raise rates. That stance now seems to have shifted. 
 ''It's equivalent to unlocking the rate-cut door and nudging it slightly open,'' said Julian Callow, the chief Europe economist at Barclays Capital in London. ''The bias is for lower rates now.'' 
 Bank watchers are betting that the bank will ease rates in April or May, with an outside chance that it will act next month.
 ''What the E.C.B. is not willing to do is engage in the very aggressive risk management that the Fed does,'' said David Mackie, chief Europe economist in London for JPMorgan Chase. ''They are not persuaded that it is appropriate for Europe.''
 Two months after revealing that some members of the bank's rate-setting body wanted to raise rates, Mr. Trichet said Thursday that the tone of the discussion had changed. ''There was no call for increase of rates or decrease of rates,'' he said. Although the bank's primary mandate is to combat inflation, it has some flexibility to consider the growth outlook, economists said. 
 Inflation is now over 3 percent, well above the bank's target of less than 2 percent, but that number is expected to decline as increases in food and oil prices taper off. Slower growth, whatever the reason for it, would slacken demand and eventually push up unemployment. With consumer purchasing power under pressure, companies would find little room to pass on higher energy and commodity prices. 
 Indeed, Mr. Trichet gave a vital signal when he said expansion in the euro area seemed to be proceeding ''on the lower side of growth potential.'' An economy's growth potential is the rate at which it begins generating rising inflation. 
 The Bank of England, fighting more immediate problems in a country closely tied to the American economy, cut its benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point, to 5.25 percent. It was the bank's second such move in two months as it struggled to contain a downturn that began with declining housing prices but has spread to consumer spending.
 Inflation in Britain is expected to accelerate despite a sharp downturn in the economy, mainly because of higher utility and food bills and a weaker pound. 
 Inflation, now at 2.1 percent, could outstrip the target of 3 percent this year, economists said. That would require the bank's governor, Mervyn A. King, to explain in writing to the government why inflation has exceeded the bank's goal -- a mandate created when the bank was given independence in 1997.
 ''The bank is easing interest rates in light of softening demand, but it cannot accelerate that given the situation with inflation,'' said Alan Clarke, an economist in London with BNP Paribas. 
 Though the European Central Bank's shift is bound to draw accusations that it has been slow to act compared with the Fed, some analysts suggested that the bank was responding sensibly. The Fed is trying to pre-empt a recession, or the worst aspects of it, they noted. Aggressive moves may be smart in a country with a collapsing housing sector and rising unemployment, but they are perhaps unsuited to Europe's less dire conditions.
 Mr. Trichet shrugged off criticism that the bank is ''behind the curve,'' a phrase often heard at the recent World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. ''I must confess that central banks are used to hearing that from time to time,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The president of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, suggested that the bank might lower rates this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Oxford Street, a busy shopping district in central London. The Bank of England reduced its benchmark interest rate on Thursday by a quarter percentage point, to 5.25 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL COURT/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); RECESSION (77%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (67%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008



222 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; In Their Own Words; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: MITT ROMNEY

 BODY:
Remarks to the Conservative Political Action Conference on Thursday in Washington.
 ''Soon the face of liberalism in America will have a new name, whether it's Barack or Hillary. The result would be the same if they were to be able to win the presidency. The opponents of American culture would push the throttle, devising new justifications for judges to depart from the Constitution, and economic neophytes would layer heavier and heavier burdens on employers and families. ... I want you to know I've given this a lot of thought. I'd forestall the launch of a national campaign and, frankly, I'd be making it easier for Senator Clinton or Obama to win. Frankly, in this time of war, I simply cannot let my campaign be a part of aiding a surrender to terror. ... If this were only about me, I'd go on, but it's never been only about me. I entered this race because I love America. And because I love America, in this time of war, I feel I have to now stand aside, for our party and for our country.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



223 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-10
 Army Drafts New Doctrine On Stabilizing War Zones
The Army has drafted a new operations manual that elevates the mission of stabilizing war-torn nations, making it equal in importance to defeating adversaries on the battlefield. A1 
 Report on Bhutto's Death 
 Investigators from Scotland Yard concluded that Benazir Bhutto, the Pakistani opposition leader, died after hitting her head as she was tossed by the force of a suicide blast, not from an assassin's bullet, officials said.A3
 Benefit of Biofuels Disputed
 Almost all biofuels used cause more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional fuels if the full emissions costs of producing these fuels are considered, according to two studies. A9 
 Archbishop Calls for Sharia
 The archbishop of Canterbury called for Britain to add aspects of Islamic Shariah law alongside the existing legal system, setting off opposition among leading politicians, lawyers and others, including some Muslims.A10 
 U.S. Presses for Kenya Peace
 The American government is playing an increasingly active role in trying to restore peace in Kenya, holding hearings in Washington and threatening to ban some Kenyan politicians from entering the United States.A6 Estimate on Tobacco Deaths
 Tobacco could kill up to a billion people during the 21st century, as cigarette sales soar in poor and middle-income countries even as they drop in wealthier ones, says a report issued by the World Health Organization. A6
 NATIONALA11-17
 Romney Ends His Run; McCain Is G.O.P. Choice
 Senator John McCain effectively became the Republican Party's presidential nominee after Mitt Romney withdrew from the race, saying that the war in Iraq and the terrorist threat made it imperative that the party unite. A1 
 Economic Package Approved
 Moving with uncommon speed, Congress gave final approval to a $168 billion economic rescue package, including rebates for taxpayers and tax breaks for businesses, that lawmakers and President Bush hope will set off a rush of springtime spending and spark the slowing economy. A1 
 6 Dead at Public Meeting
 Five people were fatally shot and two others wounded after a man opened fire as a city council meeting began in Kirkwood, Mo., a generally placid suburb of St. Louis, the authorities there said. The gunman was shot to death by police. A11 Clinton Raises $7.5 Million
 Concerned that it could lose several primaries and caucuses through the rest of February, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign sought to create an alternate storyline of success by announcing that Mrs. Clinton had raised $7.5 million online so far this month. A16
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 Next Level of People Power
 What if walking could actually provide electrical power? Researchers in Canada have developed an electrical generator mounted on the knee that turns walks into watts. A13 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA20-21
 Dozens Charged in Raids Aimed at Gambino Family
 Eighty-seven people, mostly members of the Gambino crime family, were arrested in the New York City area on charges of murder, racketeering and extortion after federal and state indictments were unsealed. Authorities called the roundup the biggest such sweep in memory, and it left no doubt that organized crime remains a formidable force around New York. A1 
 Slow Death After Beating
 Nixzmary Brown, an abused 7-year-old from Brooklyn, slipped into unconsciousness more than 13 hours before her stepfather, Cesar Rodriguez, and her mother sought medical help for her, a medical examiner testified at Mr. Rodriguez's murder trial. A20 
 WEEKENDB1-29; B31-38
 Grammys With No Winehouse
 Grammy producers announced that Amy Winehouse, the troubled British pop star and tabloid fixture, will not be able to attend the Grammy Awards on Sunday. Ms. Winehouse, who was expected to be the dominant figure at the 50th annual awards ceremony, has been denied a visa to enter the United States. B1 
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: 'An intolerable fraud'; final spin on the budget; too high a price for building; Lawrence Downes on green plans for blue Hawaii.
 Columns: Paul Krugman and David Brooks.
 BUSINESS DAYC1-9 
 Fiscal Forum's Grim Tone
 As subprime mortgage problems batter both financial markets and the world, the annual conference of the American Securitization Forum, a celebration of financial wizardry, felt more like group therapy -- leaving many people at the forum trying to get some ideas for what to do next. A1 
 Today in BusinessC2 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); POLITICS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); BIOFUELS (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); EMISSIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CAUCUSES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TAX LAW (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); TERRORISM (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); LAWYERS (70%); WALKING & JOGGING (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (51%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (72%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) KENYA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); IRAQ (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



224 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: Debt Relief Can Cause Headaches Of Its Own

BYLINE: By JANE BIRNBAUM

 BODY:
It wasn't supposed to work this way.
 Credit card companies have long seduced customers with ''buy now, pay later,'' hoping they would pay at least a minimum amount month after month but never pay off their debts. Now, though, with the economy slowing and houses no longer easy sources of cash, a growing number of consumers cannot pay even the minimums. 
 In December, revolving debt -- an estimated 95 percent from credit cards -- reached a record high of $943.5 billion, according to the Federal Reserve. The annual growth rate of this debt increased steadily in 2007, reaching 9.3 percent in the last quarter, up from 5.4 percent in the first quarter.
 The amount of debt that is delinquent -- in which minimum payments are late but the accounts are still open -- also appears to be on the rise. The Federal Reserve found that 4.34 percent of the credit card portfolios of the 100 largest banks that issue cards was delinquent in the third quarter of last year, up from 4.07 percent in the previous quarter. Charge-offs -- accounts closed for nonpayment -- also grew in that period, and banks expect charge-offs to keep rising in 2008. 
 ''It's not that card debt is unmanageable for everyone,'' Adam J. Levitin, a credit expert and an associate professor of law at Georgetown University, wrote in an e-mail message. ''Rather, it is unmanageable for some (and a growing group, it seems).'' 
 What can borrowers do to extricate themselves? 
 If belt-tightening suffices, one option is a debt management repayment plan in which interest rates, but not balances, are reduced. 
 Ronald J. Mann, a law professor at Columbia University and a credit expert, describes credit industry practices as intended to enslave borrowers in a ''sweat box.'' He recommends a Chapter 7 bankruptcy that wipes out most credit card debt.
 Many consumers, however, are loath to file for bankruptcy protection, said Mark S. Zuckerberg, a bankruptcy lawyer in Indianapolis. And others may find that they cannot qualify for a Chapter 7. 
 Then there is debt settlement, when a debtor and creditor agree that payment of a negotiated, reduced balance will be payment in full. Debt settlement generally works best when consumers can offer a lump sum, the experts said. But consumers may face taxes on the amount the creditor has forgiven.
 ''Done correctly, it can absolutely help people,'' said Cyndi Geerdes, an associate professor at the University of Illinois law school who also runs a consumer debt clinic. 
 Consumers can arrange debt settlement themselves, and many Web sites offer advice. Consumers can also hire a lawyer or use debt settlement companies, many of which advertise online and on television. The experts agree, however, that ''buyer beware'' is the best advice when considering debt settlement companies.
 A thousand such companies exist nationwide, up from about 300 a couple of years ago, estimated David Leuthold, vice president of the Association of Settlement Companies, which has 70 members and is based in Madison, Wis. 
 Deanne Loonin, a senior lawyer with the National Consumer Law Center in Boston, has investigated them. ''It's possible there are honest ones,'' she said, ''but I assume they aren't until proven otherwise.'' 
 Travis Plunkett, legislative director of the Consumer Federation of America in Washington, said distressed borrowers who cannot produce lump sums to settle with creditors were the most vulnerable to dishonest companies. In some cases, these companies tell consumers to stop paying monthly minimums, explaining that they will negotiate a settlement when borrowers have saved enough. Meanwhile, they take hefty monthly fees directly from clients' bank accounts. 
 Creditors will not negotiate reduced balances with consumers who are still making monthly payments. But when they stop paying, total balances swell with fees and interest rates. And depending on the law in states where debtors live, creditors can attach wages and property to satisfy the new total owed. 
 ''Many debt settlement companies never explain these risks clearly,'' said Joseph A. Mullaney, a consumer affairs lawyer in Voorhees, N.J. 
 According to Ms. Geerdes, whether a creditor takes legal steps depends on its analysis of each debtor. 
 Mr. Leuthold said his association's members served consumers who had already stopped making payments and had no better options. And his members must pledge to inform clients of risks and spell them out in contracts, he said. 
 David Johnson, senior vice president of ByDesign Financial Solutions, a nonprofit charity in Commerce, Calif., says he advises consumers to avoid companies that charge large fees upfront or through payments. 
 ''It certainly would seem likely that there would be less incentive to push to settle quickly,'' Mr. Johnson wrote in an e-mail message. He recommended that consumers look for services that charge after settlement, about 20 percent of the amount of the negotiated reduction in balance. 
 Desperate consumers may turn to debt settlement, Mr. Mullaney says, because ''they usually want to pay their debt'' but are also ''intrigued with the proposition of getting out of it without the dishonor of declaring bankruptcy and with the prospect of compromising the actual principal that they owe.'' 
 And company employees can be smooth talkers, said Susan Block-Lieb, a law professor at Fordham University and a consumer affairs expert. ''You've got these really convincing, calm people with a really complicated formula, who are saying, 'Don't worry.' '' 
 Katherine Taylor, the maiden name of a white-collar worker in Austin, Tex., who did not want to be further identified because she is a supervisor, said she realized last summer that she and her husband would soon be unable to make monthly minimums on their $59,000 in credit card debt. After seeing a television advertisement, Ms. Taylor said she typed ''Christian debt settlement'' into her computer. ''I wanted an agency with high ethics,'' she explained. 
 On the first phone call with one based in Austin, she agreed to let the company take $676 from her bank account for five months, then $416 for the next 13. ''I was told that if I stopped making payments and saved up almost $24,000 on my own, in 48 months I would be free and clear and my credit score would improve,'' Ms. Taylor said. 
 Late last year, unable to reach the settlement company by phone and getting constant calls from collectors, Ms. Taylor contacted a local Better Business Bureau office. She was advised to close her bank account immediately and file a complaint. 
 Offered a partial refund by the service, she is considering her options. 
 Mr. Mullaney himself was a victim of a debt settlement company. He was determined, he said, to avoid bankruptcy, a black mark for lawyers. But after starting practice in 2003, he said he realized that he would not be able to afford both student loan payments and the minimums on his $33,500 in credit card debt. He searched online for a debt settlement company run by a lawyer, and by phone closely questioned one based in Anaheim, Calif. 
 As instructed, Mr. Mullaney stopped paying his credit cards, started paying monthly fees and saved aggressively, he recalled. But without warning, three of Mr. Mullaney's four creditors took legal action. ''Finally, the cloud of irrational belief in the concept disappeared, and I realized the scam I'd fallen for,'' he said. 
 On Oct. 17, 2005, the last day before changes in federal bankruptcy law made it harder to obtain a Chapter 7, Mr. Mullaney filed for bankruptcy protection and eliminated his credit card debt. ''I've found redemption, through using my legal degree and what I've gone through, in counseling others who sit before me ashamed and in tears,'' he said. 
 Marc S. Stern, a bankruptcy lawyer in Seattle, said most consumers should not negotiate for themselves. ''It's too emotional, and a lawyer can say things about clients that they never will, like he's a deadbeat and you're never going to get any more from him,'' Mr. Stern said. 
 Experts agreed that deals may be struck with many original creditors for 50 to 80 cents on the dollar, while debt buyers, who paid 20 cents or less on the dollar, may settle for a lower amount. 
 Debt settlement companies are regulated by state attorneys general and the Federal Trade Commission, but they are rarely prosecuted. To improve regulation of this interstate business, the Uniform Law Commission, sponsored by state governments and based in Chicago, is promoting a model law that covers credit counseling and debt management companies. It was in force in four states last year, and an estimated five state legislatures will vote on it this year, said Michael Kerr, the commission's legislative director. 
 Mr. Leuthold says his association welcomes regulation but has reservations about the model law, including its volume. ''Some say it is long and complicated, 80 pages, and a lot of states don't want that level of detail,'' he said. 
 Until the states or Congress act, credit card holders are ''naked in the world,'' said Elizabeth Warren, a law professor at Harvard and a bankruptcy expert. ''Unscrupulous debt counselors have built their business models around taking advantage of desperate people.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph A. Mullaney, a consumer affairs lawyer in New Jersey, was once a victim of a debt settlement company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); LAWYERS (86%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (69%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



225 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Canada Talks Of Extending Afghan Role, With a Catch

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
The Conservative government introduced a motion in Parliament on Friday to extend Canada's combat mission in Afghanistan, contingent on other NATO countries' sending 1,000 more troops to southern Afghanistan.
 Canada's 2,500 troops are the main NATO combat force in Afghanistan's increasingly volatile south and have suffered heavy casualties: 78 soldiers and a diplomat have been killed there, mainly in Kandahar Province. The casualties have created resentment here that other nations have avoided combat missions.
 But the motion's prospects were far from certain. It will come to a vote next month. 
 The Conservatives, led by Prime Minister Stephen Harper, do not control a majority in Parliament, and the leaders of the other three major parties oppose continuing the combat mission.
 In a bid to press those parties, the Conservatives said Friday that if their motion were defeated, the government would be dissolved and a national election called. That threat led Liberals to charge that the government was trying to engineer its own defeat in a bid for early elections, a charge the Conservatives denied.
 The demand for a greater military role by other nations mirrors a recommendation made last month by a government panel that examined the future of the mission once its authorization lapses in February 2009.
 The other parties are divided about Afghanistan. The Liberals, the largest opposition party, would keep Canada's 2,500 troops in Afghanistan but restrict them to training and to aid and reconstruction.
 The New Democratic Party, the smallest group, favors an immediate withdrawal, while Bloc Quebecois wants them returned when the mission ends next year.
 Stephane Dion, the Liberal leader, said in an interview that Canada accepted its combat mission with the understanding that it was of limited duration and that other NATO countries would rotate through the region.
 ''There's no way a country like Canada can carry the most dangerous combat mission for decades,'' he said. ''We have not been frank enough with our allies.''
 No NATO member has offered to send a large force to the south. The United States, which has 26,000 troops in Afghanistan, has said it will temporarily redeploy 3,200 from Iraq, 2,200 of which are headed to southern Afghanistan. But the Pentagon said those troops should not be viewed as long-term reinforcements for Canada. 
 While the motion states that Parliament will support the combat mission until the end of 2011, it does not specify that the mission must end then.
 Peter Van Loan, the leader of the Conservatives in the House of Commons, said that ''the objective is to be able to leave in 2011,'' but added that Parliament must judge the mission's progress toward turning power over to the Afghans before withdrawing at that time. Mr. Dion, the Liberal leader, said that made the commitment open-ended.
 Canadian officials traveled to Paris on Friday to discuss a possible French deployment. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, in Afghanistan on Thursday, asked European countries to increase their commitments there.
 Mr. Harper's government is now in its second year, a relatively long life span for a government without a voting majority. Historically, Canadian prime ministers have been free to call elections at any time. Mr. Harper, however, eliminated that option when he set October 2009 as the date for the next one. 
 Liberals speculated that Mr. Harper would prefer an election while Canada's economy remained robust. Many economists predict that the slowdown afflicting the United States could move north this year.
 In the House of Commons on Friday, the deputy Liberal leader, Michael Ignatieff, suggested that by tying the government's fate to the Afghan motion, Mr. Harper was contriving his own downfall to bring an election this spring.
 Mr. Van Loan rejected that argument. ''The government does not believe the mission in Afghanistan should be a partisan political issue,'' he told reporters. ''Too much is at stake.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%)

PERSON: STEPHANE DION (58%); STEPHEN HARPER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEBEC, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



226 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BASIC INSTINCTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: My Cortex Made Me Buy It

BYLINE: By M. P. DUNLEAVEY

 BODY:
WHEN I invited a friend to dinner one day last summer, she mentioned that she would bring some Blue Nun white wine, in a box.
 If you're not accustomed to hearing the words ''box'' and ''wine'' in the same sentence, the idea might sound unappealing. Perhaps even declasse. Not that I wanted to admit these thoughts to my friend, but my exclamation -- ''Blue Nun? In a box?'' -- did make my skepticism rather clear.
 Fortunately she just laughed at my snobbery, and said that boxed wine today was far from the old Chablis with a spigot, which some of us may recall from college bars and family picnics. She even used the word ''tasty'' -- which although not top of the oenophile vocabulary, sounded promising. 
 And she was right. Blue Nun in a box was surprisingly tasty, all things considered, and the embarrassing experience of having my cheap wine prejudice exposed has forced me to examine how far this financial bias goes. 
 I feared that the wine incident was evidence that somehow I actually believed that paying more for things means they're better, even though I know it isn't true. There is research suggesting that the bias toward higher-priced goods may have something to do with the way the brain links price with pleasure -- and thus leads people to make assumptions about quality.
 In a study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences last month, researchers from the California Institute of Technology and Stanford University asked 20 volunteers to taste and evaluate five wine samples, which were labeled according to price: $5, $10, $35, $45 and $90 a bottle. All of the volunteers identified themselves as moderate wine drinkers and not experts.
 They said they liked the more expensive wines best. And brain scans taken as the volunteers sipped and rated the wines showed that the higher-priced wines generated more activity in the medial orbitofrontal cortex, an area of the brain that responds to certain pleasurable experiences.
 But there was a catch: although subjects were told that they were tasting five different wines, in fact they sampled only three. The $90 wine was presented twice, once at its real price and once as a $10 wine; the $5 wine was also presented as a $45 wine. When the wines were offered at the higher price, participants preferred them -- and their brains registered greater pleasure. 
 When they sampled the wines with lower prices, however, the subjects not only liked them less, their brains registered less pleasure from the experience. It seems that what these subjects really liked was the price tag, not the product.
 APPARENTLY my brain had a similar reaction at the thought of drinking Blue Nun from a box, which costs about $20 for a container that packs the equivalent of four 750-milliliter bottles of wine. But why? Does the brain fire up at the sight of a higher price tag in any context?
 The study's authors examined responses only to different wines, not to cars or clothes, said Antonio Rangel, associate professor of economics at Caltech and one of the authors of the paper. He hesitated to extrapolate too much, but he said that there were reasons to suspect that the price tag bias occurs in many contexts.
 Given the human love affair with high-priced luxury goods, and their association with status and power, it's possible that we've come to experience a cerebral shiver of delight in response to things that promise that cachet. It is as if consuming high-end goods might lead to a personal transformation that bargain-hunting can't buy.
 Professor Rangel said that the pleasure we take from something ''seems to depend on our beliefs about our experience of that thing.'' It's interesting that the study also suggests we aren't always aware of these beliefs -- even though we end up paying for them.
 As a result of my adventures in boxed wine, my husband and I have had some success exploring the realm of drinkable plonk. I think my medial orbitofrontal cortex is struggling with this new development, but it is balanced by the financial lobe's pleasure in saving money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); WINE (89%); BRAIN (87%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



227 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MOST POPULAR; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 103 words

 BODY:
Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Feb. 2 through Feb. 8:
 1. Economy Fitful, Americans Start to Pay as They Go
 2. Google Works to Torpedo Microsoft Bid for Yahoo
 3. Advertising: A Severed Car Grille? It's Super Bowl Ad Time
 4. Drug Ads Raise Questions for Heart Pioneer
 5. Wesley Snipes Cleared of Serious Tax Charges
 6. Unboxed: Eureka! It Really Takes Years of Hard Work
 7. Yahoo Deal Is Big, but Is It the Next Big Thing?
 8. Progress Toward Ending Writers' Strike
 9. Papers Show Wachovia Knew of Thefts
 10. Creators of Credit Crisis Revel in Las Vegas 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (85%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (84%); SPORTS MARKETING (84%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



228 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Overseas Funds Resist Calls for a Code of Conduct

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 -- Last year, as governments in Asia and the Middle East started to buy stakes in financial institutions in the West, the Bush administration called for an international code of conduct by sovereign wealth funds. The purpose was to get the funds to disclose more of their activities and not play politics with their investments. 
 The push-back has begun. 
 Officials involved in the drafting of a code, which the International Monetary Fund is overseeing, say that many funds are resisting the pressure to embrace even a voluntary set of ''best practices'' that disavows politics. The funds argue that a code is unnecessary because their investments are already strictly commercial in nature.
 In addition, leaders of funds in Russia, the Middle East, China and other parts of Asia say that the West's demand for regulations is hypocritical in light of the failure to regulate European and American banks and hedge funds. Some analysts blame that failure for the mortgage crisis and global economic strains.
 ''These funds do not think of themselves as political, and so far they haven't been,'' said an I.M.F. official involved in the drafting of a code who would not speak on the record about internal discussions. ''What we're hearing from them is, 'What are you so upset about?' But the concerns are there, and they need to be taken care of in a code of best practices.''
 The funds are controlled by large oil and gas producers -- including Russia, Norway and countries in the Persian Gulf -- as well as the exporting superpowers in Asia, particularly China. Experts say they control more than $2.5 trillion in investments, a figure that could grow to more than $15 trillion in 10 years.
 The Bush administration has become concerned about a potential backlash even as it has welcomed the overseas capital that helped rescue Citigroup, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and other American financial institutions hurt by the mortgage crisis.
 In October, the United States joined with Europe and Japan to call for a set of best practices to which funds would subscribe voluntarily. The practices would include pledges of nonpolitical governance structures and more disclosure of portfolio activities. 
 ''I think we've made progress with sovereign wealth funds in convincing them of the need for this effort,'' said David H. McCormick, under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs. He added there was ''no evidence of them making investments for anything but economic reasons.''
 Nevertheless, there is a fear among many experts that, without a code, the funds may use their investments to try to exercise political leverage.
 Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary and former president of Harvard, pressed this point at a seminar at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, where top officials from Russia, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait said such a code seemed unnecessary in light of their track records of abstaining from political interference. 
 In an interview, Mr. Summers said that in some cases, the funds were not wrong to be concerned about Western xenophobia over foreign investments, but that the solution was to agree to more transparency and to disavow politics in their activities.
 ''I'm inclined to think that if the funds don't agree to some effort to regulate, they're asking for a lot more xenophobia,'' he said.
 At Davos, Aleksei Kudrin, the Russian finance minister, suggested that Mr. Summers was trying to solve a problem that did not exist. ''We haven't heard about any negative effects of the funds, but we're supposed to create a code against certain situations that we haven't yet defined,'' Mr. Kudrin said.
 Other officials have made similar comments. A week ago, Lou Jiwei, head of China's $200 billion fund, said at a talk at the World Bank that the I.M.F.'s effort had run into disagreement over the meaning of transparency and political motivation.
 ''It seems there wasn't any agreement on that, because nobody wants to accept the fact that anybody's better than themselves,'' Mr. Lou said. 
 Mr. Lou, like other officials of sovereign funds, said concerns about political motivations were unfounded because China's fund invested mostly in portfolios, or took small positions in companies and did not try to control their policies.
 But even those sympathetic to the idea of a best-practices code say it is harder to define than it might appear. 
 For example, the Norway investment fund has a code of ethical investment practices, like a ban on investment in companies that pollute, make cluster bombs or sell tobacco products. But some experts say it may be hard to draw the line if, for example, a Persian Gulf country tries to curb an American bank's ability to do business with Israel, or if any government tries to use its influence to get the United States to give tax breaks to a company in which it has invested.
 ''By now it's recognized that it is legitimate for investors to have ethical guidelines for their investments,'' said Martin Skancke, director general of asset management at the Norwegian finance ministry. ''The point is to do it in a predictable, transparent way.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BEST PRACTICES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST CHINA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (74%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (67%) UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); GULF STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



229 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: In Court, an Inside Look at a Violent City

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J. 

 BODY:
With cocaine for the city's addicts and bullets for his rivals, a young drug lord named Raymond Morales rose to power here in the 1990s, terrorizing the city as he wrung it for profit.
 By 2003, when Mr. Morales was arrested as he received 66 pounds of cocaine -- a two-week supply, he told investigators -- Camden had earned a reputation as one of the most dangerous places in America, where drug corners were far easier to find than supermarkets and where the bloody fight to control them, in some neighborhoods, kept terrified residents in their homes after dark. 
 A jury in federal court here is now hearing the details of those violent times. Mr. Morales, 35, who is cooperating with the authorities in the hopes of reducing the seven life sentences he faces, testified last month against three men accused of playing parts in Camden's drug trade. Two of them are accused of murder. 
 Wearing his beige prison uniform and glasses, Mr. Morales talked about the men he knew by their nicknames, the cocaine he smuggled in secret car compartments and the ends met by his rivals or by people who owed him money. 
 In other cities, such trials have become anachronisms, reminders of the years before gentrification and falling murder rates. Men like Mr. Morales are regarded with a nervous fascination that only distance allows. 
 In Camden, though, nostalgia is still a long way off. Forty-five people were killed here last year, up from 32 in 2006. This year looks worse: Eleven people have been killed so far. In January, the Police Department, ever in crisis, changed leaders for the fifth time in six years. 
 While New York and Los Angeles have reduced their murder rates over the past decade, violence continues to plague a smattering of other cities, including Detroit, Baltimore and Philadelphia. Like Camden, nearby Trenton and other small cities like Gary, Ind., have also been vexed by recent surges in the murder rate. 
 Mr. Morales's story is as much a rendering of the current, violent order as it is a glimpse at Camden's past. The corners here are still crowded with young men who talk about the city in commercial terms: a neighborhood in the north is Dope City, where heroin is sold. Crack City is in south Camden. 
 ''I lost six friends here last year,'' said a 30-year-old man who spoke on the condition that he be identified only by his street name, Papa. Released from prison a few months ago after serving a term for dealing drugs, Papa wears a tattoo on his neck that reads, ''Adversity.''
 ''That means suffering,'' he explained. ''It's the stuff we go through out here. This city is full of addicts. Everyone fights over these corners.''
 Joshua M. Ottenberg, the acting Camden County prosecutor, said he hoped that the spike in the number of homicides was an anomaly, but that the city's failing schools, lack of jobs and badly overtaxed court system did not bode well for efforts to reduce crime. 
 ''The drug economy is the economy,'' Mr. Ottenberg said, estimating that as many as half of the drug buyers in Camden visit from the suburbs. ''That's been the truth for a long, long time.''
 One recent evening, there were no drug dealers on Mr. Morales's old corner, at Atlantic Avenue and Norris Street, but they were not far away. They wander the blocks around the house where Gary Blevins has lived for 15 years in the Whitman Park neighborhood.
 ''You used to see the Polish ladies out here, sweeping their stoops -- it was a working class neighborhood,'' Mr. Blevins said. ''Now, at 3 a.m., you get the gunshots.''
 Mr. Blevins, 45, said there were plenty of families like his still living in Camden, working people with no connections to the drug trade. But even his family has been touched by the violence: In July, his granddaughter's aunt was shot and killed outside a Camden bar. 
 ''She was No. 12,'' said the granddaughter, Da'Ja Cooksey, 8, as she finished her homework at the dining room table. Da'Ja's mother, Joya Kilcrest, corrected her: In fact, it was the 14th murder of that year. 
 ''I've steered plenty of kids away from drugs,'' said Mr. Blevins, who has pulmonary fibrosis and often stays home, wired to an oxygen tank. ''And I've gone to a lot of funerals.''
 Mr. Blevins is one of many people in the city following the trial of Mr. Morales, who pleaded guilty in 2005 to ordering six killings, running a drug operation and tampering with witnesses. In court, he spoke of the magnitude of his decision to cooperate with the authorities, which led to scores of other arrests.
 ''I broke the code I lived and breathed,'' he said. 
 A cocaine retailer and wholesaler, Mr. Morales explained how he took a great deal of care to maintain his empire.
 He met associates in person, always changing the location, and kept his phone conversations short. Twice, cameras that the authorities had trained on Mr. Morales and his associates were disabled, the wires feeding them cut. 
 He made millions selling cocaine delivered by couriers from Arizona and New York. He could make $1,000 profit on a kilogram of cocaine, he testified, and his corner operation, run by a manager, could gross up to $7,500 a day. All this went to his operating costs: houses for his wife and girlfriends, prostitutes and other, grimmer expenses.
 Mr. Morales has admitted to ordering the killing of six people and supplying the gun used to kill two more. He also asked one of his hit men to kill a possible witness to an earlier killing.
 He testified that he paid for one hit with half a kilogram of cocaine. He told an underling to beat a debtor, James Fattare Dixon, in front of many people, to send a message to other dealers about paying drug debts.
 ''I ordered a beating, and he got killed,'' Mr. Morales said.
 In court last month, Mr. Morales testified about another killing in vivid detail. Miguel Batista had started to move in on Mr. Morales's turf, so on Sept. 26, 1996, Mr. Morales and an associate, Juan Rivera-Velez, who was known as ''Two-Face'' because of a disfiguring accident, took a ride with Mr. Batista. Mr. Velez, the shooter, sat in the back seat, and Mr. Batista sat in the driver's seat.
 ''We got in the car, and he wound up being dead,'' Mr. Morales told the jury. ''It was a head shot.'' 
 After Mr. Batista was killed and Mr. Morales had changed his bloodied clothes, he and Mr. Velez sneaked back into a bar where they had been drinking earlier, and made sure everyone noticed that they were there. ''I needed an alibi,'' Mr. Morales explained.
 With Mr. Morales off the streets and providing information about Camden's drug trade, the authorities talked more confidently about their chances of reducing the city's violence. 
 In 2006, the United States attorney for New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie, announced more than 50 drug-related arrests in what he called a ''very good day'' for Camden. When Mr. Morales's plea agreement was announced last year, Mr. Christie said the investigation seemed to have brought the crime rate down. 
 Now the authorities are scrambling to explain what set their efforts back. Camden's newest police chief, Edward G. Hargis, said it was possible that the arrest of Mr. Morales had started a war for control of his former turf. But it was also true, he said, that the violence here had simply reached new levels. 
 ''We're finding more people are carrying guns, and they're more willing to pull the trigger,'' he said. His department is making changes, to keep officers on the same shift, day after day, so they better understand the neighborhoods they patrol. 
 Chief Hargis, a police officer for almost 22 years, including 18 on Camden's police force, spoke of the despair caused by the lack of jobs here. ''It would be great to get a manufacturing plant,'' he said. 
 In recent years in Camden -- where 44 percent of residents live in poverty, according to 2006 census figures -- outsiders have been sent in to help the schools, the Police Department and a badly needed revitalization effort. 
 Luis Lara, a lifelong Camden resident who remembers Mr. Morales from the old days, opened a cafe downtown a year ago to show that ''it's possible to rehabilitate yourself.'' But things have not gone as he had hoped.
 ''It's not safe, and there's no business,'' he said, noting that he expected to close the restaurant within weeks. ''People are afraid to come to Camden.'' 
 North of Mr. Lara's restaurant, in the shadow of the Benjamin Franklin Bridge, the despair is apparent, with rows of houses sitting charred or abandoned and empty lots wandered by drug addicts.
 Papa, the man who was recently released from prison, stood on one corner, a thick sweatshirt keeping out the bitter evening cold. His friend Reinaldo Colon, another ex-convict, who had found a job assembling refrigerators for $190 a week, stopped to say hello.
 Papa said that there was a time, before he was imprisoned, when he could make $2,000 a day selling drugs. But he admitted that his work had exacted a higher toll.
 After he returned home from his prison stint, he found that most of his friends were gone, dead or in jail. Now, most mornings, he said, he wakes up thinking about suicide. 
 ''I found myself by myself,'' he said, as a young man stopped his car to ask where he could buy drugs. 
 Papa sent the man away. ''I got no future,'' he said. ''I got no goals in life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Papa, left, using only his street name, and Reinaldo Colon are ex-convicts trying to remake their lives. Below, a corner that belonged to a drug kingpin.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
Sherry Blevins, left, and her husband, Gary, with her daughter Joya Kilcrest and Ms. Kilcrest's daughter, Da'Ja Cooksey. Violence claimed a relative in July.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A tattoo reading ''Adversity'' decorates the neck of Papa, who is just out of jail. ''It's the stuff we go through out here,'' he said.
 Raymond Morales, 35, is testifying in federal court.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW JERSEY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); COCAINE (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); MURDER (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (88%); SMUGGLING (78%); LITIGATION (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TESTIMONY (74%); JURY TRIALS (74%); SENTENCING (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); HEROIN (73%); ARRESTS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



230 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: After Raid, New Leaders May Emerge In Mob Family

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
With its structured chain of command, its varied revenue streams and its emphasis on maximizing earnings, the Mafia has always styled itself as a criminal version of Big Business. There is even an argument to be made that Cosa Nostra, as purists often call it, is one of America's most enduring industries, having been around for at least as long, if not longer, than Fortune 500 companies like General Motors or I.B.M.
 Yet as any economist knows, business cycles rise and fall, markets crash and chief executives come and go -- sometimes in handcuffs. On Thursday, the entire leadership of the Gambino crime family -- those with the equivalent of corner offices -- was arrested in a series of devastating raids that lopped off not just the head of the snake, but much of the middle and a portion of the tail. 
 Arguably, the last time a Mafia clan found itself in such dire need of radical restructuring was after the so-called Commission Trial in 1985 and 1986. In that case, the federal government, working with evidence collected by a number of secret recording devices (including one in the dashboard of a black Jaguar belonging to Anthony Salerno, the boss of the Luchese family), won convictions against eight men who essentially served as a gangland board of directors -- the leadership of New York's five criminal family enterprises. 
 The power vacuum left by their departure made room at the top for a younger generation to emerge, a vicious, flashy, rock-and-roll generation of men like John J. Gotti who, by way of murder, assumed control of the Gambino family. In the Colombo family, the rites of succession were even bloodier as civil war broke out between a faction loyal to the jailed boss, Carmine Persico, and a rival upstart.
 It is, of course, too early to determine the current fate of the Gambino family, yet some experts on the mob speculated that the typical reshuffling of personnel and financial ventures would now begin.
 ''It's just like any business that's been interrupted -- they're struggling to maintain corporate normalcy,'' said Mark Feldman, former chief of the organized crime section of the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn and now a director at BDO Consulting. ''There will be some disarray on the streets for a while, but slowly lines of command and control will regenerate.''
 Brian Marsal, the co-chief executive of Alvarez and Marsal, a crisis management firm, was hired in 2003 by the board of HealthSouth, the Alabama-based health-care provider, to repair the damage that ensued after the company's leader and several top executives were charged in an accounting scandal. Mr. Marsal said his first step was to find a strong chief executive with reliable lieutenants who could restore credibility to the company.
 ''Once that starts to flow,'' he said, ''you find the business starts returning to a state of normalcy.''
 Of course, as a supposedly secret organization, the mob has no choice but to find its next leaders from within its current pool of talent. While it may be amusing to imagine the Gambinos hiring a ''chief restructuring officer'' like Mr. Marsal, the fact is that someone -- even an unqualified someone -- will be promoted from within.
 ''Historically, in Cosa Nostra, when top management is gone, middle- and lower- management regroups and reorganizes, and people are promoted,'' said Randy M. Mastro, a lawyer in private practice who, as a deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration, helped remove organized crime from the Fulton Fish Market, the private carting industry and the San Gennaro Festival in Little Italy. 
 ''What makes this case different,'' Mr. Mastro said, referring to the case announced on Thursday in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, ''is the fact that it seeks to go into the depths of the family and the entire administrative structure to cripple it beyond any chance of rebuilding.''
 Federal prosecutors have said the case was based in part on the work of an informant who, for a period of years, wore a wire and recorded his compatriots. Bruce Mouw, the former supervising agent of the F.B.I.'s Gambino family squad, said the first order of business on Day One after indictments would be to determine the identity of any other informants.
 ''They're trying to figure who the rats are,'' Mr. Mouw said, ''for damage control.''
 At the same time, he added, the top men will likely keep their hands on the levers of control, at least for a time. 
 ''They can still get messages out through their attorneys or relatives who are mob guys,'' Mr. Mouw explained. ''It slows things down, but they're still running. If they're all in jail, they can have administrative meetings together.''
 Nonetheless, he said, change will eventually come.
 ''Some guys will say, 'There but for the grace of God go I.' Some will go into hibernation. Some of the dumber ones will keep on rock-and-rolling. Some of the ambitious ones will say, 'Ah, here's my chance.' It's a great opportunity for career development.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the future of the Gambino crime family, whose entire leadership was arrested in federal raids last week, misidentified the boss of the Luchese family who was indicted in 1985 after a secret recording device placed in his Jaguar picked up incriminating conversations. It was Anthony Corallo, not Anthony Salerno. (Mr. Salerno, who was also indicted that year, was a leader of the Genovese family.) The error also appeared in a caption with a picture of Mr. Salerno.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The boss of the Luchese family, Anthony Salerno, with cigar, after his 1985 indictment
raids often give a new generation of mobsters opportunities to move up.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT MAASS/PHOTOREPORTERS, VIA UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL)
 Carmine Persico, a Colombo family boss, in 1986.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); SCANDALS (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); POP & ROCK (66%); HEALTH CARE (60%); ACCOUNTING (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); HLS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (50%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (50%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (50%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



231 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Mounting Struggles Endanger Roots of Racing

BYLINE: By DAVID SHAFTEL

DATELINE: BARBERVILLE, Fla. 

 BODY:
Only the uninitiated sit in the first few rows of the grandstand once the racing begins here on the dirt track of Volusia Speedway Park. Drivers jam the throttle upon entering a turn, which spins their cars sideways, lifts the front left tires off the track and sprays clumps of dirt everywhere. 
 The races on this half-mile oval are an unabashedly democratic affair. Hobbyists compete against up-and-coming young drivers and Nascar stars who revisit their racing origins some 20 miles and a virtual lifetime away from the gloss of the sport's premier event, the Daytona 500.
 Every year, Gary Brooks, a 59-year-old salvage yard owner from Charlotte, N.C., hauls his racecar and an extra set of tires here to participate in one of the country's foremost gatherings of dirt-track enthusiasts, the DIRTcar Nationals. It is one of several events that attract competitors from across the United States and Canada to several local tracks during Speedweeks, the prelude to Daytona. 
 Young drivers can learn a lot more about car control on dirt than on a paved track, Brooks said earlier this week. ''And dirt's just more fun,'' he said. ''You're out there sliding around and trying not to run into everyone.'' 
 But these events, along with similar races at East Bay Raceway Park in Tampa, come as many dirt-track owners are feeling the cumulative effects of a sagging economy, rising fuel prices and increased competition for the attention of racing fans. 
 ''The dirt tracks pay the same right now as they did in the '70s,'' said Brooks, who spoke through tobacco-stained teeth and wore a T-shirt advertising his salvage yard. ''I raced in the '70s for $1,000 a night, and we're running down here at a big show like this for $1,000.'' 
 Tucked in a corner of the infield, in the shadow of 35-foot luxury haulers, Brooks tuned up his No. 21 car before the opening of eight days of the 37th DIRTcar Nationals. His bare-bones, open-wheeled modified stock car has a Lincoln Continental grill but no sponsor's decals.
 Brooks said he started noticing a steep decline at dirt tracks in the Carolinas about three years ago, when Nascar started staging more night races. ''Now everybody can just stay home and watch the races on TV,'' he said.
 Indeed, Nascar used to hold one Saturday night race a year, in Bristol, Tenn., but it has steadily added more night races around the country. This season, 10 Cup races will start after 5 p.m. Eastern on Saturdays, when many dirt tracks traditionally operate. 
 Last month, in the face of tepid ratings and a fan base frustrated by a spate of changes to the sport, Nascar's chief executive, Brian France, spoke of a return to the roots of auto racing. At the same time, many people in the dirt-track community feel that the roots of the sport are being choked out. 
 ''Dirt-track racing right now is a tough, tough business,'' said Bill Miscoski, owner of New Egypt Speedway, a half-mile dirt oval in New Egypt, N.J. 
 He, too, cited rising fuel costs and the higher frequency of Saturday night Sprint Cup races as issues confronting the sport. Miscoski expects around 1,500 fans on a typical Saturday night and 400 to 500 fewer fans on nights when there is a top Nascar race, which affects his bottom line. 
 He said the temptation to pave a dirt track is always there. Asphalt tracks covering at least a half-mile can attract Nascar-sanctioned events and can earn precious revenue from Nascar testing, which does not count against a race team's allotted testing hours at Sprint Cup tracks. 
 ''Don't even mention paving the track around my partner,'' Miscoski said. ''He talks about it all the time, but I won't let him do it.''
 Indeed, some say it is the short asphalt tracks that are the most endangered, because they are too short to attract high-profile races and they do not provide for the side-by-side, bump-and-grind style that fans cherish at dirt tracks. Accordingly, Ocala Speedway, an asphalt track about 45 miles from here, will go back to dirt this season. 
 No statistics exist on the failure rate of short tracks, but interviews with track owners revealed that many dirt tracks routinely teeter on the brink of failure. 
 Tracks in the Southeast have been hit particularly hard. Thunderbowl Speedway in Valdosta, Ga., and Seven Flags Speedway near Douglasville, Ga., have recently gone under, and Metrolina Speedway near Charlotte, N.C., where Dale Earnhardt got his start, is shuttered and for sale. 
 Jim Hunter, a Nascar spokesman, said it was not fair to blame his organization for the struggles of short tracks. ''We don't hurt the Saturday night tracks any more than any other type of entertainment event,'' he said. 
 In recent years, several Sprint Cup drivers have stepped in to help dirt tracks. In 2005, Tony Stewart bought the Eldora Speedway, a half-mile dirt track in Rossburg, Ohio, where he holds a yearly all-star charity race that is gaining in stature.
 His fellow driver Ken Schrader co-owns dirt tracks in Pevely, Mo.; Paducah, Ky.; and Macon, Ill., all of which were on the brink of failure when he bought them. On Tuesday, Schrader raced at Volusia in the opening of the DIRTcar Nationals. 
 ''There's a thousand of these tracks in this country that run every week, and they are the backbone of our kind of racing,'' Schrader said, adding that the tracks that are run well, promoted well and friendly to fans are doing just fine. 
 Humpy Wheeler, the president of Lowe's Motor Speedway, agreed that a well-run track should be able to shake off an occasional bad weekend. Lowe's Motor Speedway will hold two Saturday night races this year, including the all-star race. But it also maintains a dirt track on the grounds. 
 Wheeler said Nascar needed to look to dirt-track racing if it really wanted to embrace its roots. 
 ''There's a primitive element with the dirt tracks that seems to fill a need for a lot of race fans,'' he said. ''It's wheel-to-wheel racing. It's rubbing fenders. You see a fight every once in a while. The drivers are not as sophisticated, they have dirt under their fingernails and that endears them to us.''
 Drivers like Gary Brooks might not have the same resources as Sprint Cup drivers like Schrader and Kenny Wallace or the two teenage grandsons of the Sprint Cup car owner Richard Childress -- all of whom have raced at Volusia this week. But Brooks estimated that with only $100 to cover his race expenses and a lifetime's experience on dirt he had a chance against anyone. 
 On opening night, however, he was spun out on the second lap of his first heat. And by late in the week, he had yet to qualify for a feature. Still, without the hope of driving one day on the big track at Daytona, Brooks said he was simply happy to be racing. 
 ''It's just nice,'' he said, ''to come out here and relax in the warm weather when there's no racing going on anywhere else and get ready for the season at your local track.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fans watched the preliminary heats of the DIRTcar Late Model Series on Wednesday at the DIRTcar Nationals, one of the country's foremost gatherings of dirt-track enthusiasts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS LIVINGSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); NASCAR RACING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); TIRES (77%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); PRICE INCREASES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (76%); TAMPA, FL, USA (70%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



232 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: The Greener Side of Recession

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
TONGUE planted firmly in cheek -- or maybe not, it's a bit hard to tell -- Fion MacCloud of the British site Finance Markets recently offered ''10 Ways the Recession Can Help the Environment.'' A recession, he noted, means less waste dumped into landfills, fewer S.U.V.'s sold and fewer people taking vacations, in that way using less fuel.
 In response, Michael Graham Richard of Treehugger.comnoted several ways that the environment is actually hurt in hard economic times. 
 Companies ''will reduce their investments into research and development and green programs,'' he wrote.
 Also, when consumers seek bargains, ''that usually means that greener products won't make it.'' If governments ''start taxing 'bads' instead of 'goods' (pollution, carbon, toxins instead of labor, income, capital gains),'' he added, ''the least expensive products will also be the greenest.''
 And with less access to capital, ''start-ups working on the breakthrough green technologies of tomorrow can have trouble getting funds.''
 Finally, during a recession, politicians may redirect their attention from environmental initiatives toward the economy. ''Massive corn subsidies anyone?'' Mr. Richard wrote. ''Don't even think about progress on global warming.''
 UNLIKELY
 Has Silicon Valley become a hotbed of drug abuse, with hopelessly addicted venture capitalists demanding that would-be entrepreneurs supply them with OxyContin before they will agree to finance start-ups?
 Probably not, but that has not stopped Valleywag, the Silicon Valley gossip blog, from posting such allegations over the last few months. It began in December, when the blog flatly claimed, based on an e-mail message from a single anonymous ''tipster,'' that OC-80, a type of OxyContin, was becoming ''the Valley's next big drug.''
 This week, Valleywag published the supposed account of an employee at a start-up who was fired because he could not secure OxyContin for his boss to give to a venture capitalist. The boss purportedly wrote an e-mail message to the employee saying: ''I told these investors we can get them OC. But just a couple days before I meet with them, you tell me you can't get it. They were counting on it, Joe. We are not going to get funded. You are fired.''
 The stilted language aside, would a boss in this situation really fire ''Joe'' via e-mail, spelling out the reasons so frankly? Many Valleywag commenters thought not. ''O.K.,'' wrote one, ''I'm changing Valleywag's tag from 'News' to 'Fiction.' ''
 SECRET SALES
 According to Linsey Knerl of the personal finance site Wisebread, Target stores are often filled with bargains, but they can be hard to find. ''In addition to the fantastic finds on the end caps of most aisles,'' she wrote, ''there are fabulous hidden deals to be had for those of us who really want them.''
 For instance, a product may be marked down, but there is no hint of its real price. ''The only way to really know if an item is on 'secret clearance' is to scan it, made handy by the self-scanning stations placed throughout most stores.'' These and several other hints are available at wisebread.com.
 PRE-'P.C.' TV
 Cracked.comoffers videos of some of the most unintentionally ridiculous television spots from the golden age of television. A spot for the Mattel Dick Tracy Tommy Burst toy machine gun features a young boy mock-killing a robber. And a 1963 commercial for Folgers instant coffee depicts a man hinting to his wife that ''the girls down at the office'' might steal his affections thanks to their superior brewing skills.
 Complete links are at nytimes.com/business. E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX EBEN MEYER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); LANDFILLS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (68%); DISMISSALS (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



233 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: A Mixed End to a Dismal Week

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street finished a dismal week with a mixed performance Friday as investors grappled with fears about insurers of distressed mortgage-backed bonds and anxiety about the broader economy.
 The Dow Jones industrial average, which rose in earlier trading, fell more than 60 points, while the Nasdaq composite index managed a gain. Both ended the week down more than 4 percent, however, and it was the Dow's worst week, in percentage terms, since March 2003.
 The market has been shaken by uncertainty surrounding bond insurers and whether they will be able to handle large losses in the value of mortgage-backed bonds. On Thursday, Moody's Investors Service lowered its rating on the bond insurer Security Capital Assurance. Then at midday Friday, Fitch Ratings, another credit rating agency, put a series of mortgage-backed securities insured by MBIA on negative watch. 
 ''The bond insurers are really on people's minds,'' said Kim Caughey, equity research analyst at the Fort Pitt Capital Group. ''This is a horribly complex issue.''
 If the ratings agencies downgrade more bonds and bond insurers, the moves could hurt the banks that own the bonds -- and ''just drive the credit markets into a downward spiral,'' Ms. Caughey said. ''It's things happening further upstream that's making people nervous.''
 Financial stocks fell because of heavy selling in the corporate bond and leveraged loan markets, and soaring commodities prices hit retailers, an equity strategist at Miller Tabak, Peter Boockvar, said.
 Crude oil prices rose $3.66, to $91.77 a barrel, in New York trading on expectations of disruptions in Nigerian exports.
 The Dow dropped 64.87 points, or 0.53 percent, to 12,182.13 -- above its lows of the day, but well off its highs. The biggest losers were the financial companies American Express and JPMorgan Chase. 
 Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.62 points, or 0.42 percent, to 1,331.29, while the Nasdaq index rose 11.82 points, or 0.52 percent, to 2,304.85.
 The Dow ended the week down 561.06 points, or 4.40 percent, while the S.& P. 500-stock index lost 64.13 points, or 4.60 percent, and the Nasdaq fell 108.51 points, or 4.50 percent.
 The Nasdaq fared better than the other indexes Friday in part because of Amazon.com, which authorized a $1 billion share buyback program. Shares of Amazon rose $2.59, to $73.50.
 Government bond prices rose. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.64 percent, from 3.76 percent on Thursday. The price increased 30/32, to 98 26/32.
 Security Capital Assurance plunged 60 cents, or 23 percent, to $2, and MBIA rose 40 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $14.60. Though MBIA's bonds were downgraded by Fitch, the market was pleased because late Thursday it increased the size of a share offering to $1 billion, from $750 million in response to oversubscription by investors.
 A batch of corporate earnings failed to provide much reassurance to investors. Some companies like the software maker McAfee and the jewelry maker Tiffany & Company seem to be faring well despite the economic slowdown, but others, including the paper and wood product maker Weyerhaeuser, are struggling.
 McAfee posted a better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit late Thursday and rose $2.92, or 9.2 percent, to close at $34.65 on Friday. Tiffany rose $1.68, or 4.4 percent, to $39.86 after predicting fiscal 2008 earnings would beat its fiscal 2007 profit forecast, based on an expected 10 percent rise in global sales.
 Weyerhaeuser swung to a fourth-quarter loss as the slumping housing market damped demand for lumber. The company expects the downturn to extend through the year. Weyerhaeuser fell $2.37, or 3.7 percent, to $62.34.
 And Alcatel-Lucent, the telecommunications equipment giant, reported a $3.8 billion loss in the fourth quarter, eliminated its 2007 dividend and predicted that 2008 would be a difficult year. Shares of the company fell 25 cents, or 4 percent, to $6.
 The mix in corporate reports has made it hard to determine how weak the economy is getting.
 Data on Friday showing a higher-than-expected rise in wholesalers' inventories provided Wall Street with little new evidence about the economy's health. An increase can be positive, suggesting that companies are betting on a rise in demand, but it can also serve as a worrisome sign that inventories are building up unintentionally because demand is waning.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BONDS (92%); INSURANCE (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (69%); RETAILERS (64%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



234 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Where's The Big Idea?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: Berkeley, Calif. 

 BODY:
 There is plenty for Democrats to admire in the candidacies of Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama. 
 They are smart, appealing and politically gifted. High fives are in order. Their success to date represents advances in American society that many would have seen as unthinkable just a few years ago.
 There's actually a lot for Americans of all political persuasions to admire this election season. This is how we change regimes in the U.S. -- peacefully. I had a long conversation the other day with a writer from Kenya, Edwin Okong'o, who is visiting the University of California campus here. 
 He found it difficult to hide his grief as he spoke of the murderous violence that has followed a disputed election in his country. Then he managed a smile. ''It's all about corruption,'' he said. ''I am always amazed when people say they are leaving the American government because they have to make more money. In my country, you go into the government to make the money.''
 But for all its upside, there is something important missing from this year's presidential campaign. In an era that cries out for real change, John McCain, the presumptive G.O.P. nominee, is selling himself to voters not as the maverick he may once have been, but as a faithful follower of policies the country should be eager to discard.
 With the Democrats, we seem obsessed with whether Senator Obama can get his new voters to the polls, and whether Senator Clinton can keep enough cash coming in, and whether there's an inch or an inch-and-a-half's worth of difference between their positions on health insurance and the war in Iraq.
 Where, in this alleged season of change, is the big idea?
 What's missing in this campaign is a bold vision of where the United States should be heading in these crucially important early years of the 21st century. In their different ways, Senators Clinton and Obama have shown themselves to be inspirational and at times even heroic figures. But neither has offered the vision that this moment in history demands.
 We're excited more by who they are than by what they've promised to do.
 All the candidates have detailed policy proposals -- masterpieces of minutiae.
 But do we have any real sense of what Senator Obama will do to stop the stagnation of the middle class and resuscitate the American dream? Do we have any reason to believe that during a Clinton presidency we'll see a transformation of the nation's decaying infrastructure? Does John McCain have the stuff to lead us from a long debilitating period of dependence on foreign oil to a new and exciting world of energy efficiency and innovation?
 The essential question the candidates should be trying to answer -- but that is not even being asked very often -- is how to create good jobs in the 21st century. Thirty-seven million Americans are poor, and roughly 60 million others are near-poor. (These are people struggling to make it on incomes of $20,000 to $40,000 a year for a family of four.)
 The middle class is hardly flourishing. In testimony before a House subcommittee last year, Harley Shaiken, a Berkeley professor who is an expert on labor and employment, remarked: ''During a period of robust economic growth, record profits and the fastest sustained productivity increases since the 1950s, only a thin slice at the top of the economic heap is enjoying higher living standards.''
 Now the country is faced with a possible recession and the likelihood of moving further backward rather than forward on employment.
 ''We're building exit ramps from the middle class,'' said Mr. Shaiken during an interview. ''But what is the path to the middle class for most Americans now? We need to figure out how to resume building entrance ramps.''
 The most direct route to the middle class has always been a good job. An obvious potential source of new jobs would be a broad campaign to rebuild the nation's infrastructure -- its roads, bridges, schools, levees, water treatment facilities and so forth.
 Another area with big job creation potential is the absolutely vital quest to develop alternative sources of energy. That effort should carry the same high national priority that was accorded the Manhattan Project during World War II. I'd even call it Manhattan II.
 There are moments in history that demand not just talent in a nation's leadership, but greatness -- men or women with the courage to dream bigger and the ability to convince others that those dreams can be realized.
 The presidential candidates don't seem to be rising to the nation's many crucial challenges with the sense of urgency and the creative vision that is called for. Not yet, at least. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); CORRUPTION (68%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); KENYA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



235 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: From Japan, Lessons in What Policies to Shun

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
In broad strokes, the parallels are alarming. After a long boom, the Japanese economy in the 1990s, as America's today, was jolted by a sharp plunge in the real estate market.
 In Tokyo, the government bankers and policy makers were slow to recognize the scope of the problem. Bad loans piled up. The financial troubles rippled through the economy as consumer spending and job growth fell.
 The Japanese slump proved extraordinarily long-lived, ending only a few years ago, a stretch of stagnation known as Japan's lost decade. It was a humbling and lasting setback for a nation once feared and admired as a model of economic dynamism.
 The shadow of Japan hangs over the American economy these days. The United States is sliding into a housing-driven downturn, economists say, just as it also appears to be losing some of its global edge from the productivity-enhancing gains driven by the technology investments of recent decades. For Japan, experts point out, the housing bubble burst just as the rise of China as an export power hurt Japanese manufacturers. 
 A lengthy slowdown, they say, could alter the economic psychology of America, echoing the Japanese pattern, as the nation enters a period of diminished confidence that restrains consumer spending and business investment. 
 ''I think there are a lot more similarities than people are willing to admit,'' said Clyde V. Prestowitz, president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington-based policy research organization that has long promoted American industry. 
 ''The American economy is very fragile now,'' said Mr. Prestowitz, who was a trade negotiator with Japan in the Reagan administration. 
 But the extreme Japanese experience, most analysts agree, stands less as a prediction of America's fate than as a cautionary example. A Japan-style quagmire, they say, is an outcome that can be avoided in the United States with sound economic policy. 
 Japan's central bank and finance ministry, economists say, waited far too long -- years -- before taking steps to revive Japan's economy in the 1990s.
 The Federal Reserve, while slow to see the credit crisis spilling into the broader economy last year, has acted much more decisively in recent weeks. The Fed has twice cut short-term interest rates sharply, lowering its benchmark rate to 3 percent, reflecting both the central bank's anxiety and its determination to try to lift the economy despite serious concerns about the risk of higher inflation.
 Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, is a former professor at Princeton University and a student of Japan's policy missteps. And while a number of experts fault Mr. Bernanke for what they see as the Fed's poor communications with both Main Street and Wall Street, the central bank's recent moves suggest that he has taken those lessons to heart. 
 His past comments, however, indicate that Mr. Bernanke thinks that low interest rates alone are not enough to revive an ailing economy. In a 2003 speech in Tokyo, for example, he offered a prescription for Japan's malaise: a more aggressive monetary policy and ''explicit, though temporary, cooperation between the monetary and fiscal authorities'' to stimulate the economy. 
 Washington understands that message. Congress -- America's fiscal authority -- moved unexpectedly rapidly to approve a $168 billion stimulus plan that includes household tax rebates, temporary tax cuts and incentives for business investment.
 ''The United States is moving faster than the Japanese did,'' said Charles Yuji Horioka, a professor of economics at Osaka University. ''So far, so good. But American policy makers have to be ready to take further steps as needed.''
 The American economy, many economists predict, will deteriorate further before things turn around. The government's report last week that employment fell in January, the first decline in more than four years, was the latest sign of trouble. The depth and duration of the downturn, economists say, will largely depend on how much more bad news is coming from banks and other financial institutions. 
 Nouriel Roubini, an economics professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University, warned that the roughly $100 billion in bad loans reported by banks to date could increase nearly tenfold, as the defaults spread beyond the subprime mortgage loans to consumer loans, credit cards and corporate lending.
 In his view, the American economy is already in recession and faces a lengthy downturn of a year or more, before growth recovers. 
 Still, even Mr. Roubini sees scant chance of the United States following Japan's path. ''I'm very pessimistic, but I don't think it will be anything like Japan,'' he said.
 Compared with the boom-bust cycle in Japan, the American housing market looks positively sedate. In the major metropolitan regions of the United States, house prices rose 82 percent from the end of the last recession in November 2001 to their peak in June 2006, according to the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller home price index. Since the peak, house prices have declined about 10 percent, and most economists expect a further decline of 10 to 15 percent. 
 In Japan, housing prices in the major metropolitan regions nearly tripled from 1985 to 1991, then proceeded to lose two-thirds of their value over the next 14 years. Today, prices have risen slightly, according to Japanese government statistics. Still, Japanese house prices last year were only slightly higher than the level before the boom, more than two decades ago.
 In Japan, government officials not only tolerated the housing price bubble, economists say, they actively encouraged it. Fearful that a strengthening yen was hurting Japanese exporters, the Ministry of Finance urged banks to lend to real estate developers so that a building boom and increased consumer spending would lift the economy.
 Japan's post-bubble recession should have lasted from 1992 to 1994, according to Adam S. Posen, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. But Japanese officials were too conservative and too protective of failing banks, he said, and thus prone to policy steps that were counterproductive, like the decision in 1997 to raise Japan's sales tax to 5 percent, from 3 percent.
 ''What kept Japan down was repeated macroeconomic policy mistakes,'' Mr. Posen observed.
 Japan's close-knit business and government culture, economists say, slowed its response to the crisis and prolonged the slump. The industrial groups, or keiretsu, had tight links with banks, so when a bank got in trouble it was often quietly bailed out temporarily with loans or investments from other members of the corporate group. Japanese bank regulators, economists note, tended to be friendly and permissive.
 Eventually, Japan experts say, banking regulation and disclosure rules were tightened up.
 ''In America, we force the bad news out faster than the Japanese did, and we deal with it faster,'' said Edward J. Lincoln, an economist and director of the Japan-U.S. Center for Business and Economic Studies at New York University. ''That should limit the damage from the economic shock instead of drag it out, as they did in Japan.''
 Though not expected to reach the proportions it reached in Japan, the economic pain in America could be considerable, some analysts warn. They see disturbing parallels with Japan in that the depths of the financial troubles in United States are still not known, and the shock of the housing market slump may bring a lasting recalibration of the national mood, lowering expectations and confidence.
 In Japan, the slump lasted longer than expected not just because of policy mistakes, notes Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard University, but also because of some underlying global economic shifts. Starting in the 1990s, he said, Japan's exporters began facing stiffer competition from other nations in Asia, particularly China.
 Mr. Rogoff sees a similar drag on the American economy from the slowdown in the rapid growth in productivity that began in the mid-1990s, often attributed to technology-driven gains. Last year, he said, the government revised its estimate of the productivity growth rate since 2003 down to about 1.6 percent a year, far lower than 2.5 percent average in the years before.
 ''It certainly appears that the U.S. productivity miracle is over,'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''Our resilience as an economy is way down. So it looks like the United States will experience a milder version of the Japanese disease.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Two traders at a brokerage firm in Tokyo in June 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOSHIYUKI AIZAWA/REUTERS)(pg. C1) GRAPHS: ''Could the American Economy Find Itself in a Lost Decade?'' After the collapse of the Japanese real estate and financial bubbles in the early 1990s, its economy suffered an extended period of stagnation, known as Japan's ''lost decade.'' Despite some similarities to today, the United States is expected to avoid such a quagmire because Washington is already moving to avoid repeating the errors of Japanese policy makers. (Sources: Standard & Poor's
Japan Real Estate Institute, via Japan Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
 Bloomberg)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); INFLATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



236 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Where Bush Didn't Want It

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
E-mail: norris@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT is not exactly a distinction that he had in mind, but seven years into his presidency, George W. Bush is in line to be the first president since World War II to preside over an economy in which federal government employment rose more rapidly than employment in the private sector.
 That is not because federal government jobs have risen at an unusually rapid rate over the last seven years -- although the increase did reverse a substantial decline under Mr. Bush's most recent predecessor, Bill Clinton. 
 Instead, it is because job gains in the private sector were modest even after the economy recovered from the 2001 recession. In 2005, private sector employment rose 2 percent, the best annual growth rate during the Bush administration, but the rate fell to 1.4 percent in 2006 and 0.7 percent in 2007. In contrast, in six of the eight Clinton years growth was above 2 percent.
 With the economy clearly slowing as the final year of Mr. Bush's presidency begins, it is possible that the overall rate of growth in private sector employment for his presidency, now at 0.53 percent per year, could fall below the 0.41 percent rate of his father's administration, which had been the lowest of any president since World War II.
 The administration of Dwight Eisenhower currently ranks next to last in that regard, with a 0.50 percent annual rate of growth. It was damaged by a 1.8 percent decline in jobs in 1960, his final year in office, when a recession was one factor in his party's loss of the White House.
 Under the current president, federal job growth has averaged 0.73 percent per year, but employment rolls at state and local governments have grown even more rapidly, at rates of 0.88 percent for state governments and 1.21 percent for local governments. The federal jobs figure excludes the Postal Service, which is now treated as more of a commercial enterprise. It has shed jobs during the Bush administration.
 In the private sector, health care jobs have risen rapidly during the Bush administration, and now account for 9.5 percent of all jobs in the country, up from 8.3 percent when Mr. Bush took office. Within health care, the fastest growth of any sector was in home health care, where the number of jobs rose 49 percent over the seven-year period, an average of 5.8 percent a year.
 Other areas with strong job growth have included oil and gas extraction and mining, reflecting rising prices for oil and many minerals.
 One of the weakest sectors was manufacturing. The number of such jobs peaked in 1979, when Jimmy Carter was president, and fell in every administration since, with the exception of a small gain in the Clinton years. The decline in the current administration, at a rate of 3.1 percent a year, is the steepest yet seen. 
 When President Bush took office, nearly 13 percent of American jobs were in manufacturing. In November, that figure fell below 10 percent for the first time ever, and at last measure was 9.95 percent. 
 The slow job growth in this decade has, at least temporarily, reversed one long-term trend, that of more and more women entering the workplace. 
 The proportion of women over the age of 20 who had jobs rose from under a third in the mid-1950s to a peak of 58.9 percent in April 1990. The latest figure, of 58.3 percent, is three-tenths of a percentage point lower than when President Bush took office. If it does not rise this year, he will be the second postwar president whose administration registered a decline in that statistic; his father was the first.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: ''Government Jobs Grow Faster'' During the seven years of the Bush administration, federal government employment has risen more rapidly than private sector employment. If that does not change in the next year, this administration will be the first since World War II in which that happened. Two other graphs show the effects on health care and manufacturing jobs. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



237 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Leader to Visit U.S., Outside the Beltway

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
President Felipe Calderon of Mexico will tour the United States next week, but he will avoid the White House, Capitol Hill and the presidential candidates, sticking instead to meetings with Mexican immigrants in major cities like New York as well as with a few local officials.
 That the president will have more meetings with his own countrymen than with officials in Washington reflects two political truths. First, Mexican migrants in the United States have become an extension of Mexico's own politics, and ignored only at great peril. Second, American officials have little use for meetings with President Calderon during an election year in which the subject of immigration has ignited strong emotions on the campaign trail. 
 Mr. Calderon has already drawn fire from some quarters here for doing too little to stand up for Mexican immigrants in the United States while Washington has cracked down on illegal immigration. Some Mexican immigrant leaders in the United States complained that he was ignoring their troubles after he canceled a trip in September.
 In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Calderon said he found the recent immigrant bashing in American society deeply troubling. The message he said he hoped to convey to Mexicans in the United States is that their government has not abandoned them and will help protect their civil rights, even if they broke the law by crossing the border. 
 ''The fundamental message is that we are with them, that the Mexican government is paying attention to Mexicans here in Mexico and in whatever other part of the world, and we are ready to help them with their problems,'' he said.
 Mr. Calderon's first year in office has been turbulent. He started his six-year term with questions about whether he would be able to govern effectively, because his leftist rival never conceded defeat in a hotly contested election in 2006 and pledged to block his initiatives at every turn.
 But since then, the Mexican president has cemented his hold on power, divided the main opposition party and taken up a full-scale offensive against drug cartels. Sending federal troops and agents to restore order in cities once controlled by drug traffickers has garnered him support both at home and in Washington, although it has also unleashed a wave of violence.
 A shrewd political deal-maker, Mr. Calderon has also managed to persuade the fractious legislature here to reform the tax system, overhaul the electoral laws and fix an enormous public pension fund. Even his critics acknowledge that he has proved a strong and able leader. 
 Yet some immigrant leaders in the United States have complained that Mr. Calderon failed to yell foul loudly enough about the treatment that Mexican workers receive north of the border these days. Tougher immigration policies in the United States have meant mass firings and deportations of illegal migrants, often separating families. His tour, of New York, Boston, Chicago, Sacramento and Los Angeles, is largely to answer those complaints, aides and political analysts said.
 At a time when many leftist leaders in Latin America are forging closer ties with China and Europe, Mr. Calderon, a conservative with a penchant for natty suits and rimless spectacles, is a rarity these days, a committed United States ally. 
 He insists the future prosperity of Latin America depends on the free flow of commerce and labor between the United States and countries to the south. 
 His government reached a joint security agreement with the Bush administration last year, leading to an unprecedented level of cooperation among law enforcement agencies. He has also resisted calls from unions and peasant groups to reopen parts of the 1994 free trade agreement with Washington and Ottawa.
 In the interview, Mr. Calderon argued that the only way the Americas could remain competitive in a world where China and Europe were emerging as major powers once again is to integrate the economies in the Western Hemisphere. He warned that the United States was losing influence.
 ''What is clear to me is that in Latin America, and in the world, for some reason the United States has been losing friends, and it seems to me it should do everything possible to reach out to the few friends it has left.'' 
 Yet for all his efforts to strengthen relations with the United States, those ties have clearly been strained. Adding to tensions have been America's efforts to build a 700-mile wall along the border and recent incidents in which tear gas and gunshots were fired at Mexicans crossing clandestinely, he said. 
 At the same time, he said, the heated anti-immigrant rhetoric of conservative talk show hosts and some politicians has created a hostile environment for the millions of Mexicans in the United States, legally and illegally.
 ''I'm very worried because this has generated an atmosphere full of prejudice, an anti-immigrant atmosphere with certain themes that are also anti-Mexican, that benefits no one,'' he said. ''It seems to me the worst thing the two countries could do is make our people think our enemy is our neighbor.''
 He said he hoped the next American president and members of Congress would have ''a wider, more positive, more rational vision of the immigration issue'' than current officeholders. He said ''the harassment that is being carried out against Mexicans'' in America amounted to a violation of human rights. 
 ''I don't dispute the right of every country to have its own law and apply its own law,'' he said. ''What I affirm is that the human rights of a person are valid, independent of their immigration status.'' 
 Some political analysts and advocates for immigrants worry that Mr. Calderon may step on a political land mine on his trip. The three leading candidates for president -- Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, and Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York -- favor some form of a comprehensive bill to give illegal immigrants a path to citizenship. 
 But if the Mexican president speaks out too forcefully against security measures on the border or tougher immigration policies, he could force the presidential candidates, who must cater to diverse and passionate views on immigration, to respond in a way that might hurt their campaigns. 
 Mr. Calderon acknowledged the risks. He pointedly declined to talk about the presidential candidates. ''If one keeps looking for the politically opportune moment to visit the United States, this could take three or four years more,'' he said. ''The truth is I have to go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Felipe Calderon in Mexico City on Thursday before a trip next week to the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); DEPORTATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (61%); TAX REFORM (60%); CARTELS (50%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



238 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 Prosecutors Near End Of Preparing 9/11 Case
 Military prosecutors are in the final phases of preparing the first sweeping case against suspected conspirators for the 9/11 plot that led to the deaths of nearly 3,000 Americans, people who have been briefed on the case said. A1 
 Chavez Faces Deluge at Home 
 Despite its oil wealth, Venezuela's economic and social problems have become so acute that President Hugo Chavez is facing an unusual domestic onslaught of criticism about his management of the country. A1 
 Calderon's Unusual Itinerary
 President Felipe Calderon of Mexico will tour the United States next week, but he will avoid the White House, Capitol Hill and the presidential candidates, sticking instead to meetings with Mexican immigrants in major cities and a few local officials. A3 Sniper Ordered Iraqi's Death
 A top Army sniper testified in a military court that he had ordered a subordinate to shoot an unarmed Iraqi man who wandered into their hiding position, then planted an AK-47 rifle near the body to support his false report about the killing. A8 
 Bhutto Report Disputed
 The party of Benazir Bhutto insisted that she was killed by gunfire, despite a report by British investigators that supported the government's view that she was killed when the force of a suicide blast caused her to strike her head. A4 
 NATIONALA9-13
 Bush Seeks to Unify Republican Party
 Without mentioning Senator John McCain, President Bush sought to unify the Republican Party behind its presumptive nominee and said the contest would present the country with a stark ideological choice at a time of war. A1 
 Nebraska Ends Electrocution
 The Nebraska Supreme Court has ruled that the electric chair is cruel and unusual punishment. The decision effectively suspended executions there, as Nebraska is the only state that relies solely on electrocution, which was once the dominant form of execution in the United States. A9
 Papal Revision Troubles Jews
 The revision of a contentious Good Friday prayer approved by Pope Benedict XVI could set back Jewish-Catholic relations, Conservative Judaism's international assembly of rabbis says in a resolution to be voted on next week. A9 
 Student Kills 2 and Herself
 A nursing student opened fire in a classroom filled with students at a technical college's campus in Baton Rouge, La., killing two young women before fatally wounding herself. A12 
 Panel Rejects E.P.A. Limits
 A three-judge federal appeals panel in Washington struck down the Environmental Protection Agency limits on mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. A13 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA14-15
 Former Drug Lord Offers A Grim Look at Camden
 Testifying against three men who the authorities say played parts in the drug trade in Camden, N.J., a former drug lord painted a grim picture of the nagging violence that has made Camden one of the most dangerous places in America. A14
 Mob Needs New Blood
 The Mafia finds itself in dire need of reorganization after this week's arrest of the entire leadership of the Gambino crime family, which left the clan without its typically structured chain of command. A14
 BUSINESS DAYB1-8 
 A Cry for Free Software
 Trying to placate consumers who want software to be free, some companies are seeking a return not through the product, but by getting users to pay attention to advertising. A1 
 Today in BusinessB2 
 ARTSA17-27
 Writers Could Return to Work
 Leaders of the Writers Guild of America West and the Writers Guild of America East will hold informational meetings with their members today. If reaction to the settlement proposals are sufficiently positive, the guilds' boards could end the three-month walkout and allow television and movie writers to return to their laptops. A17
 OBITUARIESB9
 Karl Ehrhardt
 A fan who through championship seasons and woeful ones let the Mets know what he thought of them by raising block-lettered signs from his seat, he was 83.B9
 EDITORIALA28-29
 Editorials: Growing pains of universal coverage; on investigating a Republican; toward drug case justice; the case of the poisoned pet food.
 Columns: Bob Herbert and Gail Collins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY COURTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (85%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); JEWS & JUDAISM (85%); RELIGION (85%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ARMIES (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (72%); APPEALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); APPROVALS (68%); SUICIDE (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (64%); POWER PLANTS (63%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (63%); EASTER SEASON (61%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (61%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (60%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (60%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (60%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (71%); FELIPE CALDERON (70%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (65%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



239 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Tolls Plan Is Dead Unless Revised, Corzine Is Notified by Opponents

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Ken Belson contributed reporting.

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine's plan to sharply raise tolls is all but dead, according to influential Democrats and every Republican state legislator, who have warned that he has to modify his plan substantially if he expects to win their support.
 Mr. Corzine's plan to raise up to $38 billion in bonds by increasing tolls 50 percent every four years from 2010 to 2022 had been criticized by various Republicans since it was unveiled last month, but on Thursday all 49 Republican state legislators declared their opposition. 
 More jarring to Mr. Corzine was the defection on Thursday of three notable Democrats, including his former colleague in the Unites States Senate, Frank R. Lautenberg, and State Senator John H. Adler of Camden County, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee. 
 On Friday another Democrat, Congressman Frank Pallone Jr., who represents the shore communities in the central part of the state, said Mr. Corzine's plan should be changed because it ''seems to disproportionately place the burden on the residents of counties that I represent.'' 
 In the face of growing opposition, Mr. Corzine has spoken more frequently about the possibility of altering his plan, perhaps with a combination of smaller toll increases and an increase in the gasoline tax. 
 That has not appeased many of the people who attended town hall meetings this week in two heavily Republican counties, where Mr. Corzine was received with catcalls, boos and even personal insults.
 Then on Friday, more than 700 opponents of the plan rallied outside the State House, led by the same radio station that helped foment opposition to a tax increase initiated by Gov. Jim Florio 18 years ago in a campaign that forced Mr. Florio out of office. 
 ''The idiot in the corner office isn't listening!'' roared Casey Bartholomew, who is one-half of the talk-show duo known as the Jersey Guys on WKXW-FM. 
 The rally used pig balloons to parody the warning the governor made in announcing the plan: ''Pigs will fly over the State House before there is a realistic level of new taxes or spending cuts that can fix this mess.''
 Mr. Corzine has insisted that his ambitious plans for rescuing the state's economy were never intended to be the final version, but rather a first draft in a give-and-take process. Still, allies of Mr. Corzine say privately that he has been surprised by the level of vitriol, even though he has lined up support from dozens of influential business leaders, two Democratic congressmen and former Republican officials with reputations for fiscal discipline.
 But in Trenton, Mr. Corzine's task is to persuade at least 21 senators and 41 Assembly members to pass his plan. While he initially said he wanted the measure establishing a new nonprofit corporation to issue bonds and manage the state's three toll roads -- the New Jersey Turnpike, Garden State Parkway and Atlantic City Expressway -- approved by mid-March, he conceded this week that June is more realistic.
 ''The governor has tried to do a lot, and in politics that's tough to do,'' said State Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, a Union County Democrat. ''But we have to scale back the governor's plan a little bit.''
 When asked Thursday night after a town hall meeting in Atlantic County about possible alternatives, Mr. Corzine said: ''I haven't settled on any alternative, but I'm listening to people, and I'll try to come up with a proposal that actually can get 21 and 41. I've always said this would be a heavy lift to do it just exactly like I said it. So we have to make sure that we solve our problems, and many people want some other solutions.'' 
 Mr. Corzine's apparent willingness to compromise is likely to be a relief to many Democrats, especially those whose districts are close to the toll roads. For now, however, it is a cause for concern.
 Even Congressman Steven R. Rothman, who represents mainly Bergen County, and United States Senator Robert Menendez both tread carefully when asked if they support Mr. Corzine's plan. While the two Democrats gave him credit for tackling the persistent fiscal mess, they questioned whether his plan offered the best solution.
 Representative Bill Pascrell, whose district embraces a swath of North Jersey, went further, saying the governor's plan was unfair to his constituents because they would bear much of the cost. 
 ''I would recommend changes to the governor's proposal to provide a greater degree of equity,'' he said. ''It is important that all New Jerseyans, regardless of what roadway they reside near, be required to share in the burden of restoring fiscal solvency to the state.'' 
 According to Mr. Lesniak and aides to Mr. Corzine, it is unlikely that the governor will offer any specific changes to his plan before he presents an austere budget for the next fiscal year on Feb. 26, which is expected to include more than $2 billion in cuts.
 Mr. Corzine has already warned that just about every sector -- education, the arts, hospitals, municipalities -- will be squeezed by the budget, which will freeze state spending at last year's level of $33.5 billion.
 Such stringent cuts may prompt some opponents to restore spending in various areas, Mr. Lesniak said, and then look at Mr. Corzine's toll plan in a new light. It seems likely, he said, that in the end, the governor will have to accept retiring less debt and getting less for transportation.
 As the Senate president, Richard J. Codey, put it: ''He's trying to do the right thing, and I support his efforts to right what's wrong. But to go down the road of fiscal restructuring, we need a different vehicle.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: About 700 people rallied outside the State House in Trenton on Friday to oppose Gov. Jon S. Corzine's plan to raise tolls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SYLWIA KAPUSCINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (79%); BONDS (77%); TAX LAW (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BOND ISSUES (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); MAMMALS (66%); FUEL TAX (65%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (93%); FRANK PALLONE JR (73%); BARNEY FRANK (73%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (73%); JOHN ADLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



240 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Alcatel-Lucent Posts Loss, But Revenue Climbs 18%

BYLINE: By VICTORIA SHANNON

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Alcatel-Lucent, the telecommunications giant, said Friday that its fourth-quarter revenue increased 18 percent over the same period a year ago, at 5.23 billion euros ($7.6 billion), despite earlier warnings of a rough period. 
 But the company still posted a loss of 2.58 billion euros ($3.8 billion) for the quarter on a one-time charge.
 The chief executive, Patricia F. Russo, predicted ''somewhat of a loss'' for the current quarter, given an uncertain economy and a seasonal sales decline. The company also suspended its stock dividend.
 Alcatel-Lucent finished its first full year as a merged company with a net loss of 3.52 billion euros ($5.1 billion), mostly on charges, and sales of 17.79 billion euros, a 2.5 percent drop.
 The fourth-quarter write-down came from revaluing the CDMA business, a mobile-network technology that was a major part of the portfolio that Lucent Technologies brought to the merger.
 Ms. Russo, who had been chief executive of Lucent, defended the merger and said the multibillion-euro ''impairment'' charge did not reflect any company lack of faith in CDMA, which is used largely in the United States and Asia, but was rather a long-term view of the technology and the changing market.
 She said that despite the economic cloudiness, she was not expecting a major recession or even a global pullback in the industry overall this year. Business, she said, would be ''about like it is now.''
 Ms. Russo acknowledged during an interview that it had taken the two companies more time than expected in some cases to show synergies, but she said that a perception that the integration was generally behind was false.
 Saying that the merger has always been described as a three-year process, she pointed to Alcatel-Lucent's profitable fixed-line telecommunications division, a 6-billion-euro business, and the 12 percent increase in profit in the services business as visible evidence of the merger benefits.
 Alcatel-Lucent has cut its payroll to 77,400 jobs from 82,700 a year ago. It has so far trimmed about half the jobs it said it would as it consolidates. 
 Its stock rose 0.01 euro Friday to close at 4.14 euros a share in Paris trading. Shares fell 4 percent in New York. 
 This year, Alcatel-Lucent expects the telecommunications equipment business to be relatively flat to slightly lower, Ms. Russo said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patricia Russo, chief executive of Alcatel-Lucent, spoke about the company's results at a news conference in Paris on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUDITH WHITE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); MERGERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EURO (90%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DIVIDENDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (69%)

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (93%); ALCATEL-LUCENT DEUTSCHLAND AG (92%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (93%); ALU (NYSE) (93%); ALU (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: PATRICIA RUSSO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2008



241 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; POLITICS ISSUE; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2065 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Are From Venus

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY WHEATCROFT. 
Geoffrey Wheatcroft's books include ''The Controversy of Zion,'' ''The Strange Death of Tory England'' and ''Yo, Blair!'' He is writing a book on Churchill's reputation before and since his death.

 BODY:
WHERE HAVE ALL THE SOLDIERS GONE? 
 The Transformation of Modern Europe. 
 By James J. Sheehan. 
 Illustrated. 284 pp. Houghton Mifflin Company. $26. 
 At the time of the World Cup the summer before last, there was a nice cartoon in the papers by Oliphant, with two panels. One showed ''Soccer as seen by Americans,'' a group of dainty chaps prancing lightly across the grass with purses dangling from their limp wrists, and the other, ''American football as seen by Europeans,'' a heap of brutally moronic humanoids using severed limbs to batter each others' brains out. 
 Yes, that sums up this reciprocal perception rather well -- and it might have hinted at a contrast going beyond sports. The delicate midfield artists of Barcelona and Arsenal are vegetarian Venusians, shall we say? While the ferocious Giants and Patriots linebackers could be called Martian carnivores. The very games look like a metaphor for the gulf, growing between the two continents since World War II, that was the subject of Robert Kagan's ''Of Paradise and Power'' in which he denounced sybaritic, pacifistic Europe on behalf of ''Americans from Mars.'' 
 As James J. Sheehan neatly observes in ''Where Have All the Soldiers Gone?'' Kagan's philippic was published on Feb. 5, 2003, just 10 days before Europe saw the largest political demonstration in its history. More than half a million marched in Berlin to protest the imminent Iraq war, with other huge rallies in Rome, Barcelona and London (prompting Tony Blair's bizarre comparison of the number of demonstrators with the number of Saddam Hussein's victims). This outpouring of popular feeling against war no doubt confirmed Kagan in his view that those ''Europeans from Venus'' are now incapable of the use of military force that still comes naturally to Americans, and that it was ''time to stop pretending that Europeans and Americans share a common view of the world, or even that they occupy the same world.'' 
 However that may be, it's a surely astonishing fact that no European war has been fought for more than 60 years, at least outside the ruins of Yugoslavia. Western Europe has become politically and socially demilitarized to a degree once unimaginable; after so many centuries of bloody conflict, Europeans don't want to study war no more. In his scintillating tour d'horizon -- and de force -- Sheehan suggests that such obsolescence of war is specifically ''the product of Europe's distinctive history in the 20th century,'' and he argues that it has created a new kind of European state along with ''a dramatically new international system within Europe.'' 
 There had been an earlier age of peace. The half-century following Waterloo was notably pacific after the violence from which it had emerged, and 1871 to 1914 saw the longest period until now without any war at all between larger European powers. There was besides a vigorous peace movement. Sheehan describes the vogue for such books as Bertha von Suttner's ''Lay Down Your Arms,'' Ivan Bloch's ''Future of War,'' which inspired the 1899 Hague peace conference, and Norman Angell's ''Great Illusion.'' So it was that ''at the beginning of the 20th century, as at the beginning of the 21st, a relatively peaceful Europe lived in a dangerously violent world.'' 
 And yet even then there were powerful contrary forces plainly visible. In that age of ever more strident nationalism, chauvinists saw the army -- and war -- as the crucible forging national unity. Great powers displayed their greatness with mass conscript armies, uniforms were seen everywhere, and when a Bulgarian general said in 1910 that ''we have become the most militaristic state in the world'' it wasn't a lament but a boast (not to say one of the many fascinating quotations with which Sheehan's book is studded). An unmistakable mood was bored with the very achievements of consensual government and material improvement, while ''the revolt of the masses'' itself had military implications, as some saw: well before 1914 Churchill said with chilling prescience that democracy was more vindictive than oligarchy, and ''the wars of peoples will be more terrible than the wars of kings.'' 
 In the end the Party of Peace did win, but only after the catastrophe between 1914 and 1945, with bloodshed surpassing anything ever seen and an utterly unparalleled murder of innocents; a regression that remains an inexplicable moral mystery. In those years one might say that the best lacked all conviction and the worst were full of passionate intensity: even after the carnage of the trenches, an important minority -- Russian Communists as well as Italian Fascists -- still believed in ''the regenerating value of violence,'' and this was brilliantly exploited by Hitler. When the next war came it was waged just as he demanded, ''with the greatest brutality and without mercy.''
 Although Sheehan's title alludes to Europe since 1945, almost two-thirds of his narrative deals with the years up to then -- but in a way those earlier years answer the question he poses. By the second half of the 20th century, having given a most vivid demonstration of Walter Benjamin's saying that civilization and barbarism are far from incompatible, Europe was exhausted and ashamed. For all the exigencies of the cold war, there was an overwhelming desire never again to see real war, between France and Germany or among their neighbors.
 The trente glorieuses after VE-Day saw three decades of astonishing economic growth, which coincided with another most remarkable change: ''With or without a fight, Europeans abandoned their empires.'' This proved pure benefit for Europe, if not for the former colonies, and its further significance was that, as Sheehan says in a typically perceptive phrase, the brute force with which empire had been won and held now seemed anachronistic, ''part of a vanished world in which the ability to wage war had been centrally important to what it meant to be a state.''
 From the 1970s the economy stalled while Europe faced numerous social problems. And yet as the cold war ran down the clock, it became gradually clearer that liberal democracy and a market economy mitigated by welfare had won a complete political victory over ''actually existing socialism.'' At the same time Europe was fully ''civilianized'': conscription was abandoned, armies themselves assimilated the values of civilian society and, as the great English military historian Michael Howard has put it, ''death was no longer seen as being part of the social contract.'' 
 But life is full of surprises. Sheehan's book is sprinkled with confident but foolish predictions, like H. N. Brailsford averring in the early summer of 1914 that ''there will be no more wars among the six great powers,'' or The Economist in September of that year dilating on ''the economic and financial impossibility of carrying out hostilities many more months on the present scale.''Just over 70 years later, as cocksure as ever and as wrong, that magazine asserted in 1985 ''that nothing much will have changed by the year 2025.'' Shortly after those words were published, the Berlin Wall fell, the Soviet empire imploded and savage violence consumed the Balkans, whence so many of Europe's woes had long stemmed.
 Here Sheehan is most sagacious. He sees that the game was up for the Soviet regime the moment Gorbachev disavowed ''force and the threat of force,'' and he gets the break-up of Yugoslavia right. In late 1991, at the insistence of the German government (itself egged on, one might add, by Serb-bashing right-wing columnists in papers like The Frankfurter Allgemeine), the European Union recognized the sovereignty of Slovenia and Croatia, and then Bosnia, crucially and disastrously before the nationality questions in those territories had been resolved. This encouraged a competitive round of territorial acquisition and ethnic expulsion and ''intensified the predatory war being fought by Serbs and Croatians against Bosnia.'' 
 It was of course ludicrous as well as hubristic for Jacques Poos, foreign minister of Luxembourg, to say at this juncture that ''the hour of Europe has dawned,'' but trans-Atlantic denunciations of European weakness were also misplaced. When the tub-thumpers of Capitol Hill and the op-ed pages were asked 15 years ago what kind of military intervention in the Balkans they had in mind, it turned out to mean American air cover while the Western Europeans provided the P.B.I., as the British Army used to say, the poor bloody infantry, a division of labor that had little appeal in Europe.
 What sense does ''Mars and Venus'' have in the light of the past century, and the price paid by different countries? In 1914-18, 1.3 million Frenchmen (those cheese-eating surrender monkeys) were killed defending their country, which is to say more than twice as many as all the Americans who have died in every foreign war from 1776 until today. There has been much anguish about American casualties in Iraq, where last year was the worst since 2003, with all of 901 deaths. Reading that, the European may reflect silently on the dates Aug. 22, 1914, when 27,000 French soldiers were killed in a day, or July 1, 1916, when 20,000 British troops died. 
 It isn't necessary to agree with Evelyn Waugh writing to his friend Graham Greene -- ''Of course the Americans are cowards. They are almost all the descendants of wretches who deserted their legitimate monarchs for fear of military service'' -- to see clearly that the United States isn't a warlike country at all. In many ways it has always been more deeply peaceable in its instincts than ever Europe was. 
 And is the civilianization of Europe such a bad thing? Although there has been much grumbling about the Bundeswehr's inadequate contribution in Afghanistan, some of us cannot see it as an occasion for pure regret if the Germans have changed character so drastically. In World War II, the Wehrmacht was unquestionably the best army, man for man and unit for unit, not least against the less ferocious ''citizens in uniform'' of the British and American Armies. Is that really a cause for British or American shame? When German rearmament began in the 1950s, at American urging, Gustav Heinemann resigned as Adenauer's interior minister, with the words, ''God took arms out of our hands twice; we must not take hold of them a third time.'' Was he so wrong? 
 In a bravura final chapter Sheehan explains ''Why Europe Will Not Become a Superpower.'' As he recognizes, the European Union is already a superstate economically, but its failure to develop a common foreign and defense policy will continue to disappoint some enthusiasts. Disingenuous and ignorant at once, Blair once said that no one had ever envisaged a United States of Europe. In fact that very phrase has been current since the mid-19th century. But it was always a false analogy, illustrating Johnson's saying that life's follies stem from the attempt to emulate that which we do not resemble: the European Union no more resembles the American Union than the Soviet Union, and why should it?
 It is not complacent to say that ''the European idea'' has in many ways been a heartening success, even if it never achieved all that its early proponents hoped. Europeans may have chosen butter instead of guns, and Europe as a whole may even be what Churchill said he hoped to see Germany become after 1945 -- fat but impotent. And yet, while the continents are certainly drifting apart in some ways (secular Europe looks on with bewilderment at the contest between preacher-men in this presidential campaign), Europeans aren't quite the decadent lotus-eaters that some Americans claim.
 One can talk about European soft power against American hard power, but the point is made better by Sheehan in the peroration to this excellent book. The birth of the Bolshevik regime -- and then of Fascist and National Socialist regimes -- was a direct consequence of the ''intense violence'' then poisoning Europe. The astonishingly peaceful collapse of Communism rather more than 70 years later reflected in turn ''the decline of violence that, by the 1980s, had transformed international and domestic politics throughout Europe'': a change for the better if ever there was one. To put it another way, soccer is not only England's and Europe's gift to all mankind. It really is a better game.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Just practicing: Russian soldiers paraded on Red Square in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); SOCCER (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); MEAT FREE DIETS (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (58%)

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (58%)

TITLE: Where Have All the Soldiers Gone? (Book)>; Where Have All the Soldiers Gone? (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



242 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: Writers Reach Tentative Deal With Producers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY. 
Bill Carter and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
An end to Hollywood's long and bitter writers' strike appeared close on Saturday, as union leaders representing 12,000 movie and television writers said they had reached a tentative three-year deal with production companies.
 The strike, which began Nov. 5, remains in effect until the governing boards of the two writers' guilds gauge the sense of their membership in mass meetings on both coasts this weekend and decide whether to end the walkout. The mood at the New York meeting on Saturday afternoon was one of supportive optimism, with a touch of wariness, and the Los Angeles gathering was set to take place late in the evening. The boards are expected to meet as early as Sunday, and the strike could be over by Monday morning. 
 A resolution would be good news for the producers. The strike, Hollywood's longest since 1988 and one that has thrown tens of thousands of people out of work, has shut down production on dozens of television shows (including viewer favorites like ''Grey's Anatomy'' and ''CSI''), forcing the networks to patch together prime-time schedules with reruns and increased doses of reality shows. Movie studios have been forced to delay some of their feature film plans, including prospective blockbusters like ''Angels and Demons,'' the sequel to ''The Da Vinci Code.'' 
 An end to the strike would also bring relief to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which was nervously making plans for an Oscar night on Feb. 24 without writers or stars. And late-night talk shows that have operated without writers would benefit immediately. Shows like NBC's ''Late Night with Conan O'Brien'' and the ''Tonight Show with Jay Leno'' are already inviting writers back to work on Monday, assuming the strike ends. Dramas and comedies like Fox's ''24'' and ''Back to You'' are likely to take weeks to get back in production. Weaker shows might not return at all, and shake-ups in network planning might delay the return of others.
 The agreement would let writers claim to have bettered a similar deal achieved last month between the production companies and the Directors Guild of America. In the third year of the Writers Guild deal, writers will be paid a percentage of the distributor's revenue rather than the flat fee for Web-streamed television shows granted to the directors. The writers had insisted on this issue to ensure they not lose out on any new-media windfall the studios and networks may get from Web video. The producers yielded on this point -- and the directors did not push it --arguing that Internet distribution is unlikely to become a significant business during the length of these contracts.
 Word of the deal came on Saturday in an early morning e-mail message to members of the Writers Guild of America West and the Writers Guild of America East. The deal was to be reviewed by members at previously scheduled meetings here and in New York on Saturday. 
 In their e-mail message, Patric M. Verrone, president of the West Coast guild, and Michael Winship, his East Coast counterpart, said: ''Much has been achieved, and while this agreement is neither perfect nor perhaps all that we deserve for the countless hours of hard work and sacrifice, our strike has been a success.''
 While approval appears likely, members have warily debated the expected agreement all week, and they are certain to scrutinize the details closely. Members at the New York meeting on Saturday afternoon appeared largely upbeat, according to a writer who attended but spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid conflict with union leaders. But several questioners said they did not fully understand the contract, and some asked why the unions were being asked to lift the strike so quickly.
 ''It'll be nuclear winter if we don't ratify this,'' said Terry George, a negotiating committee member, in response to one query. ''If we don't ratify this now, they can take everything back.'' Speaking at the meeting, Mr. Winship drew substantial applause when he declared, ''It is no exaggeration to say, a new era has begun.''
 Speaking outside the New York meeting, Carmen Culver, who has written television movies and miniseries, said ''the mood was more positive, certainly, than not.'' She added, ''There also, of course, lots of questions.''
 Spokesmen for the writers and for the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, which represents over 300 production companies, declined to comment.
 The strike was, in large part, fought over the contentious issue of compensation for work shown on the Internet and through cell phone and other new-media devices. Writers had demanded a much bigger share of returns from downloads and Web streaming than they had received in the past from the distribution of shows on older media like cassettes and DVDs, as well as expanded jurisdiction over reality television and animated features.
 Company representatives initially responded by insisting on a complete revamping of Hollywood's time-honored residuals system, under which writers, directors, actors and others are paid for re-use of their work on television and home video.
 As the more expansive demands for wider jurisdiction and a narrowing of residuals were dropped, the sides were finally left with a more conventional negotiation. That turned on precise amounts of, and methods for calculating, payments for the growing digital distribution of shows in the next three years. 
 In Hollywood, excitement about a return to work has been dampened by widespread realization that the Screen Actors Guild, which represents 120,000 actors, is approaching a contract negotiation no less difficult than the writers' talks. 
 A memorandum sent to some writers guild members summarized a four-hour meeting on Friday in which union leaders briefed a group of 300 strike captains. According to the memorandum, the captains were deeply divided as to whether the strike should be lifted before a full membership vote. 
 ''Returning to work prior to an actual vote signaled it was over and felt undemocratic,'' the memo sent to some guild members said, in summarizing the discussion. ''Others felt the deal was being 'rammed down our throats' too quickly,'' while still others felt that ''returning to work was imperative.'' 
 If members balk at an immediate return, the guilds could organize a rapid-fire vote by fax, Web and in meetings, polling writers over the next few days rather than ending the strike by board action. An accelerated member vote might put writers back to work by Wednesday.
 The tentative agreement became possible when the sides reached a handshake deal nine days ago on a crucial term under which writers would be paid a fixed residual amounting to about $1,300 for the right to stream a television program online. In the third year of their contract, the writers would achieve one of their major goals: payments amounting to 2 percent of the distributor's revenue from such streams.
 The percentage formula is viewed by many writers as protection against the possibility that traditional reruns -- which have paid them residuals amounting to tens of thousands of dollars per episode in the past -- will disappear because of Web streams in the near future.
 Other major gains include a pay plan that pegs residuals for electronic downloads of movies and televisions shows at nearly double the rate paid historically for DVDs, and calculates the rate as a percentage of the distributor's revenue, junking an old formula. 
 The tentative agreement grew from a week-long, and sometimes heated, exchange of contractual provisions. Informal talks between guild leaders and key executives -- primarily Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, and the president of News Corporation, Peter A. Chernin -- began immediately after companies reached a deal with the directors guild in mid-January.
 Television viewers began seeing the effects of the strike firsthand in the last few weeks, as scripted shows faded further into reruns and networks started promoting reality shows like ''American Gladiators'' on NBC that do not employ guild writers.
 At the Friday strike captains' meeting, Mr. Verrone said his guild had achieved two of its three prime objectives by securing coverage over Internet work and locking in a residuals formula for new media. According to the memorandum describing the meeting, Mr. Verrone called the failure to win jurisdiction over reality television and animation ''a heartbreaking loss for him personally,'' though he vowed to continue the fight.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the Writers Guild of America West talking outside the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (87%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); STREAMING MEDIA (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (66%)

ORGANIZATION: WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA WEST (59%); ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (54%)

PERSON: CONAN O'BRIEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



243 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Move to Lift a Ban on Head Scarves Gains in Turkey

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Sebnem Arsu contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ISTANBUL 

 BODY:
Parliament took a major step on Saturday toward lifting a ban against women's head scarves at universities, setting the stage for a final showdown with Turkey's secular elite over where Islam fits in the building of an open society.
 Lawmakers voted overwhelmingly in favor of a measure supported by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to change the Constitution in a way they say will guarantee all citizens the right to go to college regardless of how they dress. 
 The authorities imposed the ban in the late 1990s, arguing that the growing number of covered women in colleges threatened secularism, one of the founding principles of modern Turkey.
 Secular opposition lawmakers voted against the change, with about a fifth of all ballots cast. Crowds of secular Turks backed them on the streets of the capital, Ankara, chanting that secularism -- and women's right to resist being forced to wear head scarves by an increasingly conservative society -- was under threat.
 ''This decision will bring further pressure on women,'' said Nesrin Baytok, a member of Parliament from the opposition secular party, during the debate in Parliament. ''It will ultimately bring us Hezbollah terror, Al Qaeda terror and fundamentalism.''
 Another member from that party, Kemal Kilicdaroglu, said the group would take the amendments to the Constitutional Court, a pro-secular institution that is likely to rule against Mr. Erdogan. That process must wait until the changes are approved by the president and published in the official state newspaper. 
 The head scarf ban, and the push to repeal it by Mr. Erdogan's governing party, has become one of the most emotional issues in Turkey. It pits a rising, increasingly wealthy middle class of observant Turks, on one side, against a secular elite, backed by the military and the judiciary, on the other. 
 ''It's all about power,'' said Jenny B. White, an anthropologist at Boston University who has been studying Turkey since the 1970s. ''It's about who gets to decide what Turkey's image and emblematic lifestyle will be. Islam is the lightning rod for all the fears and concerns.''
 Many secular Turks are concerned that the Justice and Development Party led by Mr. Erdogan has such significant power, controlling Parliament, the presidency and the prime ministry, that it will impose its own conservative values on Turkey. 
 ''It's been presented as a liberty to cover the head, but in practice, it is going to evolve into a ban on uncovered hair,'' said Hikmet Sami Turk, a former justice minister, speaking on NTV television. 
 Turkey's current tensions are rooted in its recent past, when migrants from the country's more observant heartland moved to cities, starting in the 1950s, in a process that changed Turkey into an urban society. 
 But it remained divided by class, and when many covered women began entering universities and taking public sector jobs, the secular elite banned head scarves. 
 Now, Mr. Erdogan is trying to lift the ban, and the debate, which began in Parliament on Wednesday, has been emotional.
 ''I will entrust liver to a cat, but won't entrust secularism to you,'' Deniz Baykal, the head of the secular opposition party, said Wednesday, according to Today's Zaman, an English-language daily newspaper. 
 Cemil Cicek, a conservative member of Mr. Erdogan's party, countered, ''We are not trying to bring a ban; we are trying to lift a ban.''
 ''Why aren't you willing to reach consensus, but spread radioactive fear and horror across the country like the Chernobyl power station?'' he asked in Wednesday's debate. ''What is this?''
 Turkey is groping toward a new understanding of itself. Observant Turks, the underclass for years, are now firmly part of the elite, and hard questions have emerged about how to share public space, like college campuses and public buildings. 
 Those who argue for retaining the ban say they do not oppose the head scarf worn in times past by grandmothers, tied babushka-style under the chin. 
 Nilufer Gole, a Turkish sociologist who wrote ''The Forbidden Modern: Civilization and Veiling,'' argues that the past generation was mostly working class, and therefore not threatening, while today's wealthier covered women are. 
 ''We liked our grandmothers because they were just knitting,'' she said by telephone from Paris. ''They were never trying to go to university.''
 Turkey's booming economy is a great equalizer. On the streets of Istanbul, young women in jeans, stylish T-shirts and Keds wear head scarves of all colors. Young observant women are more integrated than ever. 
 ''For me it's a good sign,'' Ms. Gole said. ''It means they are participating.'' 
 Still, Turkey is entering uncharted waters in its attempts to balance liberal democracy, Islam and secularism, and Western models do not show the way.
 ''It's not like a Sikh policeman wearing a turban under his helmet in England,'' said Murat Belge, a professor at Bilgi University in Istanbul. In Britain, Sikhs are a tiny minority. In Turkey, he said, those asking to have their way are a majority. 
 That majority, many secularists believe, is using the veil as a first step toward a repressive Islamic state.
 But Ms. White, writing in a Turkish newspaper on Friday, said the veil's political meaning is in the eye of the beholder. ''Meaning,'' she wrote, ''is in our heads, not on our heads.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secular Turks seeking to keep a head scarf ban protested Saturday in Ankara, some with photos of the republic's founder, Ataturk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UMIT BEKTAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); HEZBOLLAH (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); HEZBOLLAH (55%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) TURKEY (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



244 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Cutting To the Quick

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
WITH the Federal Reserve busy cutting interest rates, investors in financial services companies are surely hoping that their beleaguered stocks will rebound. That has been the outcome after previous Fed rescue efforts, of course, and for good reason. When the capital costs of large commercial banks decline significantly, it is far easier for them to generate profits: for example, they lend at much higher rates than their cost or invest in higher-yielding securities. 
 Scroll back to 1990, when the economy was shaky and banks were in trouble. All eyes were on Citibank, staggering under the weight of $9.7 billion in troubled loans. Many of the problem loans financed leveraged buyouts and commercial real estate, and $9.7 billion was real money in those days. Citibank's shares fell to a split-adjusted $1.39 that October. The company chopped its dividend and laid off thousands. Wall Street was awash in rumors of a Citibank insolvency. 
 In November, the central bank cut the federal funds rate twice, to 7.5 percent from 8 percent. The next month, the Fed pared the discount rate -- what it charges for loans to commercial banks -- by half a point. Further cuts followed. 
 The bank's shares responded quickly in early 1991. By March, the stock was at $2.50; it ended 1991 at a split-adjusted $3.04. By 1995, the stock was at $10, adjusted for splits. The Fed's rate cuts had effectively bailed out the bank.
 Today, many investors are hoping for a replay of those events for the entire banking sector, and the sooner the better. Financial services stocks lost 21 percent of their value in 2007, and the American Stock Exchange Financial Select Sector index is down an additional 7.4 percent so far this year. Nobody wants a continuation of that trend for the financial services industry, the largest component of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
 Still, while lower rates are always a positive for banks, the effects of the Fed's cuts may not prompt an immediate rebound in profits at many banks. Among other things, the nation's lenders have so thoroughly depleted their capital that they may not be in a position to take advantage of the profit opportunity that the rate cuts offer. Analysts writing in the UBS Mortgage Strategist made a cogent argument for this last week.
 For example, the analysts contend that right now many banks cannot take advantage of the lower cost of money to invest in higher-yielding securities. This kind of transaction is known as the carry trade, a reference to the positive interest or ''carry'' earned on the investments; such trades have been huge moneymakers for financial institutions in recent years and could help their profit pictures now. 
 A common example of a carry trade involves the purchase of a mortgage security backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. The spread between the yields on these securities and the banks' borrowing costs -- reflected by the one-month London Interbank Offered Rate -- is certainly rich. Just before the Fed began easing interest rates, this spread stood at 0.40 percent. Last week, it was 1.81 percent, UBS said.
 But the carry trade requires excess capital, and that is in short supply at many banks today. 
 There are several reasons for this. One is that during the recent lending boom, banks were not setting aside as much money in reserves for bad loans as they had been in previous periods. Now, problem assets -- loans -- are mounting and banks must play catch-up. Unfortunately, using precious capital to add to reserves does not produce profits. 
 Compounding this problem is the fact that many assets previously held off of commercial banks' balance sheets -- in the now-notorious structured investment vehicles and asset-backed commercial paper entities that ran into trouble last summer -- are migrating back onto their books. Investors are refusing to buy the paper that these vehicles issued in good times, forcing banks to bring the assets backing that paper onto their balance sheets.
 UBS estimates that financial institutions have already brought back $236 billion from off-balance-sheet land since August; it predicts that a total of $400 billion will migrate back to banks' books.
 BANKS' commercial and industrial borrowers have also been tapping their established credit lines aggressively since the capital markets seized up last August, UBS pointed out. These borrowings have risen from around $1.3 trillion to nearly $1.45 trillion at major commercial banks, depleting capital they could use elsewhere. 
 Finally, losses on consumer auto and credit card loans have only begun to uptick; if they increase as the economy softens, bank capital will be further constrained. 
 The unhappy result? Many financial institutions will not have access to the kinds of trades that traditionally have helped plump their earnings in the short term. 
 Of course, regulators can also adjust their capital requirements, reducing the amount of reserves that must be set aside for potential problem loans, to ease the way toward greater bank profitability. Back to the Citibank example: When the Fed cut the discount rate in 1990, it also reduced the level of cash reserves that banks were required to hold in noninterest-bearing accounts to make loans. Maybe regulators will repeat that move or come up with another.
 Big banks and brokerage firms have recorded around $150 billion of losses and write-downs since the credit crisis began. Investors in financial services stocks have taken their own enormous hits. 
 But these stocks put on a stunning run in recent years. From a low point of 185 in October 2002, the Amex Financial Sector index more than doubled, to a high of 378 one year ago. On Friday, the index closed at 269, down 30 percent from the peak. 
 That's a lot of pain to bear. But if a recession hits, there may be more to come. Even with the Fed on the case, a quick turnaround in the crucial financial sector is looking less likely. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Fair Game column last Sunday, about loan losses at Citibank during the 1990 recession, misstated the history of stock prices for the bank's parent, then called Citicorp. The stock traded as low as $11.125 in October 1990, not $1.39. After the Federal Reserve started cutting interest rates, the price rose to $15.625, not $2.50, by March 6, 1991; it climbed to $67.25, not $10, by the end of 1995. (The lower prices were for Travelers, a company that later merged with Citicorp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (69%)

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



245 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: This Year, Commodities Are on a Rockier Road

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
STOKED by rising demand, a falling dollar and rosy economic predictions, commodities like oil, corn and precious metals soared in price over the last few years.
 But times are changing. Now, many strategists say, the outlook is much more uncertain. They recommend paring back existing holdings, or switching from investments in raw materials to the stocks of some commodity producers.
 Ed Yardeni, the president of Yardeni Research, said that investors who have placed bets on the raw commodities -- through exchange-traded funds, for example -- should expect much more volatility this year. 
 ''For a while, commodities were just a one-way bet, but now there will be a tug of war between the bulls and the bears,'' Mr. Yardeni said.
 He also cautioned investors to remember that the impact of the dollar on commodity prices can work both ways. He said the declining dollar helped to lift commodity prices last year. But a sharp rally by the dollar could put a dent in commodity markets.
 Mr. Yardeni is not predicting an American recession. He said he expected annualized domestic economic growth to slow to around 1.5 percent in the first half of this year, and rise to around 3 percent in the second half. 
 But he did not subscribe to the fashionable theory of ''de-coupling,'' which holds that emerging economies will keep chugging along no matter what happens to the American economy. He predicted that even a slowdown in domestic growth -- without a full-blown recession -- would be enough to damp global demand for a whole range of commodities.
 David Wyss, the chief economist of Standard & Poor's, puts the risk of an American recession this year at 60 percent. ''If there's going to be a recession, we're probably already in it,'' he added.
 But Mr. Wyss agreed with Mr. Yardeni in at least one way, saying that even an economic slowdown could be enough to prompt more volatility in commodity markets. Mr. Wyss said that some of the most vulnerable commodities might be the ones that have staged the biggest rallies in recent years, like oil and gold. 
 He predicted that oil could fall to around $70 a barrel at some point this year. Lately, it has been hovering around $90 a barrel, so such a decline would be more than 20 percent. While he said that gold ''follows its own rules,'' he attributed much of its recent climb, to over $900 an ounce, to weakness in the dollar. But Mr. Wyss said he expected the dollar to stabilize soon.
 Richard Bernstein, the chief domestic strategist at Merrill Lynch, said that whether or not the American economy slipped into recession, investors should be prepared for slower global growth this year, and he advised investors to ''lighten up on commodities.''
 For example, if an investor had put 2 percent of his portfolio into a commodity E.T.F. a few years ago, the fund's value might have grown to 4 or 5 percent of that portfolio today. It's time to return to the original allocation, he said. 
 Looking at the various types of commodities, some strategists are most optimistic about the outlook for agricultural products like corn, wheat and soybeans. They argue that two big stories are behind the rise in crop prices: the diversion of land to grow crops for production of biofuels like ethanol, and an increase in food consumption in emerging markets, particularly in Asia.
 Mr. Bernstein said that both of these trends were real -- but long term. ''When people start talking about long-term stories, they tend to ignore the short-term cyclicality of commodities,'' he said.
 In the near term, Mr. Bernstein said that if oil prices fell, there would be less incentive to bolster ethanol production. And he said that ''everybody in Asia is not going to wake up tomorrow and say, 'gee, I want a burger.' '' Those cultural shifts are usually measured in years or even decades, he said, not months.
 But Michael Lewis, the global head of commodities research at Deutsche Bank, favors agricultural products now largely because ''there's a fight between feeding people, cattle and cars.'' He predicted that crop prices would continue to rise and might not peak until sometime in 2009.
 But by this point, he said, agricultural sector stocks might have more room to rise than the prices of crops. He recommended looking at stocks like Monsanto, the seed and pesticide maker based in St. Louis, Mo.; the Potash Corporation, the fertilizer maker in Saskatchewan; and Archer Daniels Midland, the giant grain processor based in Decatur, Ill.
 Among commodities, his only other current favorites were precious metals. He said gold could rise to more than $1,000 an ounce this year. But he said that this prediction was based largely on continuing weakness in the dollar. ''The only thing that would make us really worried about gold prices now would be a rapid turnaround in the dollar,'' he said.
 Mr. Lewis was much less sanguine about the outlook for industrial materials and energy, both sectors that rely heavily on strong economic growth.
 For example, he predicted that oil prices could fall from around $90 a barrel today to around $80 by the middle of this year. He said they might rebound to around $90 by year-end, but he advised caution. ''This is not a buying opportunity,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Corn is unloaded at Lincolnway Energy's ethanol plant in Nevada, Iowa. Some strategists remain upbeat about the outlook for agricultural products. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: METALS MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (72%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



246 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; GLOBAL CLASSROOMS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2883 words

HEADLINE: Universities Rush to Set Up Outposts Abroad

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
When John Sexton, the president of New York University, first met Omar Saif Ghobash, an investor trying to entice him to open a branch campus in the United Arab Emirates, Mr. Sexton was not sure what to make of the proposal -- so he asked for a $50 million gift. 
 ''It's like earnest money: if you're a $50 million donor, I'll take you seriously,'' Mr. Sexton said. ''It's a way to test their bona fides.'' In the end, the money materialized from the government of Abu Dhabi, one of the seven emirates.
 Mr. Sexton has long been committed to building N.Y.U.'s international presence, increasing study-abroad sites, opening programs in Singapore, and exploring new partnerships in France. But the plans for a comprehensive liberal-arts branch campus in the Persian Gulf, set to open in 2010, are in a class by themselves, and Mr. Sexton is already talking about the flow of professors and students he envisions between New York and Abu Dhabi. 
 The American system of higher education, long the envy of the world, is becoming an important export as more universities take their programs overseas. 
 In a kind of educational gold rush, American universities are competing to set up outposts in countries with limited higher education opportunities. American universities -- not to mention Australian and British ones, which also offer instruction in English, the lingua franca of academia -- are starting, or expanding, hundreds of programs and partnerships in booming markets like China, India and Singapore.
 And many are now considering full-fledged foreign branch campuses, particularly in the oil-rich Middle East. Already, students in the Persian Gulf state of Qatar can attend an American university without the expense, culture shock or post-9/11 visa problems of traveling to America. 
 At Education City in Doha, Qatar's capital, they can study medicine at Weill Medical College of Cornell University, international affairs at Georgetown, computer science and business at Carnegie Mellon, fine arts at Virginia Commonwealth, engineering at Texas A&M, and soon, journalism at Northwestern. 
 In Dubai, another emirate, Michigan State University and Rochester Institute of Technology will offer classes this fall. 
 ''Where universities are heading now is toward becoming global universities,'' said Howard Rollins, the former director of international programs at Georgia Tech, which has degree programs in France, Singapore, Italy, South Africa and China, and plans for India. ''We'll have more and more universities competing internationally for resources, faculty and the best students.'' 
 Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, internationalization has moved high on the agenda at most universities, to prepare students for a globalized world, and to help faculty members stay up-to-date in their disciplines.
 Overseas programs can help American universities raise their profile, build international relationships, attract top research talent who, in turn, may attract grants and produce patents, and gain access to a new pool of tuition-paying students, just as the number of college-age Americans is about to decline. 
 Even public universities, whose primary mission is to educate in-state students, are trying to establish a global brand in an era of limited state financing. 
 Partly, it is about prestige. American universities have long worried about their ratings in U.S. News and World Report. These days, they are also mindful of the international rankings published in Britain, by the Times Higher Education Supplement, and in China, by Shanghai Jiao Tong University. 
 The demand from overseas is huge. At the University of Washington, the administrator in charge of overseas programs said she received about a proposal a week. ''It's almost like spam,'' said the official, Susan Jeffords, whose position as vice provost for global affairs was created just two years ago. 
 Traditionally, top universities built their international presence through study-abroad sites, research partnerships, faculty exchanges and joint degree programs offered with foreign universities. Yale has dozens of research collaborations with Chinese universities. Overseas branches, with the same requirements and degrees as the home campuses, are a newer -- and riskier -- phenomenon. 
 ''I still think the downside is lower than the upside is high,'' said Amy Gutmann, president of the University of Pennsylvania. ''The risk is that we couldn't deliver the same quality education that we do here, and that it would mean diluting our faculty strength at home.'' 
 While universities with overseas branches insist that the education equals what is offered in the United States, much of the faculty is hired locally, on a short-term basis. And certainly overseas branches raise fundamental questions: 
 Will the programs reflect American values and culture, or the host country's? Will American taxpayers end up footing part of the bill for overseas students? What happens if relations between the United States and the host country deteriorate? And will foreign branches that spread American know-how hurt American competitiveness?
 ''A lot of these educators are trying to present themselves as benevolent and altruistic, when in reality, their programs are aimed at making money,'' said Representative Dana Rohrabacher, a California Republican who has criticized the rush overseas. 
 David J. Skorton, the president of Cornell, on the other hand, said the global drive benefited the United States. ''Higher education is the most important diplomatic asset we have,'' he said. ''I believe these programs can actually reduce friction between countries and cultures.'' 
 Tempering Expectations
 While the Persian Gulf campus of N.Y.U. is on the horizon, George Mason University is up and running -- though not at full speed -- in Ras al Khaymah, another one of the emirates. 
 George Mason, a public university in Fairfax, Va., arrived in the gulf in 2005 with a tiny language program intended to help students achieve college-level English skills and meet the university's admission standards for the degree programs that were beginning the next year. 
 George Mason expected to have 200 undergraduates in 2006, and grow from there. But it enrolled nowhere near that many, then or now. It had just 57 degree students -- 3 in biology, 27 in business and 27 in engineering -- at the start of this academic year, joined by a few more students and programs this semester. 
 The project, an hour north of Dubai's skyscrapers and 7,000 miles from Virginia, is still finding its way. ''I will freely confess that it's all been more complicated than I expected,'' said Peter Stearns, George Mason's provost. 
 The Ras al Khaymah campus has had a succession of deans. Simple tasks like ordering books take months, in part because of government censors. Local licensing, still not complete, has been far more rigorous than expected. And it has not been easy to find interested students with the SAT scores and English skills that George Mason requires for admissions. 
 ''I'm optimistic, but if you look at it as a business, you can only take losses for so long,'' said Dr. Abul R. Hasan, the academic dean, who is from the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology. ''Our goal is to have 2,000 students five years from now. What makes it difficult is that if you're giving the George Mason degree, you cannot lower your standards.'' 
 Aisha Ravindran, a professor from India with no previous connection to George Mason, teaches students the same communications class required for business majors at the Virginia campus -- but in the Arabian desert, it lands differently. 
 Dr. Ravindran uses the same slides, showing emoticons and lists of nonverbal taboos to spread the American business ideal of diversity and inclusiveness. She emphasizes the need to use language that includes all listeners. 
 And suddenly, there is an odd mismatch between the American curriculum and the local culture. In a country where homosexual acts are illegal, Dr. Ravindran's slide show suggests using ''partner'' or ''life partner,'' since ''husband'' or ''wife'' might exclude some listeners. And in a country where mosques are ubiquitous, the slides counsel students to avoid the word ''church'' and substitute ''place of worship.'' 
 The Ras al Khaymah students include Bangladeshis, Palestinians, Egyptians, Indians, Iraqis, Lebanese, Syrians and more, most from families that can afford the $5,400-a-semester tuition. But George Mason has attracted few citizens of the emirates. 
 The students say they love the small classes, diversity and camaraderie. Their dorm feels much like an American fraternity house, without the haze of alcohol. Some praise George Mason's pedagogy, which they say differs substantially from the rote learning of their high schools. 
 ''At my local school in Abu Dhabi, it was all what the teachers told you, what was in the book,'' said Mona Bar Houm, a Palestinian student who grew up in Abu Dhabi. ''Here you're asked to come up with your personal ideas.'' 
 But what matters most, they say, is getting an American degree. ''It means something if I go home to Bangladesh with an American degree,'' said Abdul Mukit, a business student. ''It doesn't need to be Harvard. It's good enough to be just an American degree.''
 Whether that degree really reflects George Mason is open to question. None of the faculty members came from George Mason, although that is likely to change next year. The money is not from George Mason, either: Ras al Khaymah bears all the costs. 
 Nonetheless, Sharon Siverts, the vice president in charge of the campus, said: ''What's George Mason is everything we do. The admissions are done at George Mason, by George Mason standards. The degree programs are Mason programs.''
 Seeking a Partnership
 Three years ago, Mr. Ghobash, the Oxford-educated investor from the United Arab Emirates, heard a presentation by a private company, American Higher Education Inc., trying to broker a partnership between Kuwait and an American university. 
 Mr. Ghobash, wanting to bring liberal arts to his country, hired the company to submit a proposal for a gulf campus run by a well-regarded American university. American Higher Education officials said they introduced him to N.Y.U. Mr. Ghobash spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on the company's fees, talked with many N.Y.U. officials and paid for a delegation to visit the emirates before meeting Mr. Sexton, the university president, in June 2005. 
 Mr. Sexton said he solicited the $50 million gift to emphasize that he was not interested in a business-model deal and that academic excellence was expensive. Mr. Ghobash declined to be interviewed. But according to American Higher Education officials, $50 million was more than Mr. Ghobash could handle. 
 So when the agreement for the Abu Dhabi campus New York University was signed last fall, Mr. Ghobash and the company were out of the picture, and the government of Abu Dhabi -- the richest of the emirates -- was the partner to build and operate the N.Y.U. campus. The Executive Affairs Authority of Abu Dhabi made the gift in November 2007. 
 ''The crown prince shares our vision of Abu Dhabi becoming an idea capital for the whole region,'' Mr. Sexton said. ''We're going to be a global network university. This is central to what N.Y.U. is going to be in the future. There's a commitment, on both sides, to have both campuses grow together, so that by 2020, both N.Y.U. and N.Y.U.-Abu Dhabi will in the world's top 10 universities.'' 
 Neither side will put a price tag on the plan. But both emphasize their shared ambition to create an entity central to the intellectual life not just of the Persian Gulf but also of South Asia and the Middle East. 
 ''We totally buy into John's view of idea capitals,'' said Khaldoon al-Mubarak, chairman of the Executive Affairs Authority. ''This is not a commercially driven relationship. It's a commitment to generations to come, to research. We see eye to eye. We see this as a Catholic marriage. It's forever.'' 
 It is also, for New York University, a chance to grow, given Abu Dhabi's promise to replace whatever the New York campus loses to the gulf.
 ''If, say, 10 percent of the physics department goes there, they will pay to expand the physics department here by 10 percent,'' Mr. Sexton said. ''That's a wonderful opportunity, and we think our faculty will see it that way and step up.'' 
 Mr. Sexton is leading the way: next fall, even before the campus is built, he plans to teach a course in Abu Dhabi, leaving New York every other Friday evening, getting to Abu Dhabi on Saturday, teaching Sunday and returning to his New York office Monday morning. 
 ''The crown prince loved the idea and said he wanted to take the class,'' Mr. Sexton said. ''But I said, 'No, think how that would be for the other students.' '' 
 Uncharted Territory
 While the gulf's wealth has drawn many American universities, others dream of China's enormous population. 
 In October, the New York Institute of Technology, a private university offering career-oriented training, opened a Nanjing campus in collaboration with Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, and dozens of American universities offer joint or dual degrees through Chinese universities. 
 Kean University, a public university in New Jersey, had hoped mightily to be the first with a freestanding undergraduate campus in China. Two years ago, Kean announced its agreement to open a branch of the university in Wenzhou in September 2007. Whether the campus will materialize remains to be seen. Kean is still awaiting final approval from China, which prefers programs run through local universities. 
 ''I'm optimistic,'' said Dawood Farahi, Kean's president. ''I'm Lewis and Clark, looking for the Northwest Passage.'' 
 In fact, his negotiations have been much like uncharted exploration. ''It's very cumbersome negotiating with the Chinese,'' he said. ''The deal you struck yesterday is not necessarily good today. The Chinese sign an agreement, and then the next day, you get a fax saying they want an amendment.'' Still, he persists, noting, ''One out of every five humans on the planet is Chinese.''
 Beyond the geopolitical, there are other reasons, pedagogic and economic. 
 ''A lot of our students are internationally illiterate,'' Dr. Farahi said. ''It would be very good for them to have professors who've taught in China, to be able to study in China, and to have more awareness of the rest of the world. And I think I can make a few bucks there.'' Under the accord, he said, up to 8 percent of the Wenzhou revenues could be used to support New Jersey. 
 With state support for public universities a constant challenge, new financing sources are vital, especially for lesser-known universities. ''It's precisely because we're third tier that I have to find things that jettison us out of our orbit and into something spectacular,'' Dr. Farahi said. 
 Possibilities and Alarms
 Most overseas campuses offer only a narrow slice of American higher education, most often programs in business, science, engineering and computers. 
 Schools of technology have the most cachet. So although the New York Institute of Technology may not be one of America's leading universities, it is a leading globalizer, with programs in Bahrain, Jordan, Abu Dhabi, Canada, Brazil and China. 
 ''We're leveraging what we've got, which is the New York in our first name and the Technology in our last name,'' said Edward Guiliano, the institute's president. ''I believe that in the 21st century, there will be a new class of truly global universities. There isn't one yet, but we're as close as anybody.'' 
 Some huge universities get a toehold in the gulf with tiny programs. At a villa in Abu Dhabi, the University of Washington, a research colossus, offers short courses to citizens of the emirates, mostly women, in a government job-training program. 
 ''We're very eager to have a presence here,'' said Marisa Nickle, who runs the program. ''In the gulf, it's not what's here now, it's what's coming. Everybody's on the way.''
 Some lawmakers are wondering how that rush overseas will affect the United States. In July, the House Science and Technology subcommittee on research and science education held a hearing on university globalization. 
 Mr. Rohrabacher, the California lawmaker, raises alarms. ''I'm someone who believes that Americans should watch out for Americans first,'' he said. ''It's one thing for universities here to send professors overseas and do exchange programs, which do make sense, but it's another thing to have us running educational programs overseas.'' 
 The subcommittee chairman, Representative Brian Baird, a Washington Democrat, disagrees. ''If the U.S. universities aren't doing this, someone else likely will,'' he said. ''I think it's better that we be invited in than that we be left out.'' 
 Still, he said he worried that the foreign branches could undermine an important American asset -- the number of world leaders who were students in the United States. 
 ''I do wonder,'' he said, ''if we establish many of these campuses overseas, do we lose some of that cross-pollination?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carnegie Mellon University's campus in Doha, Qatar, where an American education is available to Persian Gulf students. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMARA ABDUL HADI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Aisha al-Qaissieh, above, is among the students taking an accounting class in Abu Dhabi offered by New York Institute of Technology, one of the many American institutions that are trying to become global universities. At left, in a dormitory for students at George Mason University's campus in Ras al Khaymah, a Nigerian student, Maryam Bugaje, right, works as a dormitory supervisor.
 Georgetown is one of several American universities that are extending their reach into the Persian Gulf. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAMARA ABDUL HADI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); TERRORISM (62%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SINGAPORE (93%); INDIA (92%); QATAR (92%); CHINA (92%); GULF STATES (91%); NIGERIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



247 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
How to Pay Tomorrow's Bills
 To the Editor:
 Re ''My Birthday Wish: Not Burdening Our Children'' (Economic View, Feb. 3), in which N. Gregory Mankiw said we should stop asking what the government can do for us and start focusing on how we can prepare the economy for future generations: 
 The column accepts that Social Security is ''pay as you go,'' but doesn't follow through on what the implications of the overpayment into the Social Security account should be. Social Security intrinsically is much more an insurance plan than a continuing budget item; it makes much more sense for me to think of my Social Security payments as premiums for my old-age benefits than as payment for someone else's. The historical definition was a political necessity.
 Regarding the cost of health care in the 1950s versus today, of course the level of care and its associated cost are much higher now. However, as one whose enthusiasm for the free market in all things is well under control, I wonder how much less today's cost would be without the advertising and marketing by today's health care providers. Richard Attanasio
 Cortlandt Manor, N.Y., Feb. 3
 To the Editor:
 I couldn't agree more with the column's view that the nation is passing too much debt along to the next generations. Debt clocks should be placed in the legislative chambers of all levels of government. Let these officials look at their own respective debt clocks each time they pass budgets increasing our debt.
 It is time for a return to pay-as-you-go budgeting, means testing for all government assistance programs, balanced budgets, actual surpluses and down payments to reduce long-term debt for all levels of government. How ironic that after winning the cold war against communism, it may be mismanagement of our economy that defeats us in the end. Larry Penner
 Great Neck, N.Y., Feb. 4
 To the Editor:
 The column asks where funding for entitlement programs for the elderly will come from, but doesn't consider how much money would be freed up if we ended such futile and hugely expensive projects as the war in Iraq. 
 And why can't we recognize that people who have spent decades working and paying taxes are no less entitled to public support than young people who have not even begun to work? Why are those on Social Security and Medicare considered a burden by some people when children receiving public education are not?
 Felicia Nimue Ackerman
 Providence, R.I., Feb. 3
 The writer is a philosophy professor at Brown University.
 Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); AGING (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); COLD WAR (71%); HEALTH CARE (68%); IRAQ WAR (62%); PHILOSOPHY (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



248 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Spotlight on Cuba

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO. 
''Cuba: Artists Experience Their Country,'' Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street, Clinton, through March 30; (908) 735-8415 or www.hunterdonart museum.org.

 BODY:
Back in 1992, when I visited Cuba to attend the Havana Biennale, I knew it was only a matter of time before the world took notice of the country's artists. The following year New York's Museum of Modern Art staged ''Latin American Artists of the 20th Century,'' a landmark event for the exposure of Cuban artists. Among them was Jose Bedia, who is also in the compelling show ''Cuba: Artists Experience Their Country,'' now at the Hunterdon Museum of Art. 
 Mr. Bedia, who was 34 in 1993, painted outsize outline drawings of mythical figures influenced by African, Afro-Cuban and Native American religions and cosmology. Spirituality is still a part of his work, though after leaving Cuba for Mexico in 1993 he began making symbolic drawings that reflect on contemporary life, history and culture in his homeland. On display here is his drawing ''Isla Cimarrona'' (1994), a rough representation of Cuba as a dangerous and forbidding place. (Cimarron means wild in Spanish.) 
 Mr. Bedia is one of 25 artists and artists' collectives assembled for this exhibition, one of the largest the museum has mounted and easily among the most notable shows in New Jersey right now. All the works are borrowed from collections and galleries in the New York metropolitan area, a decision that had nothing to do with the United States' economic embargo against Cuba. According to the exhibition's curator, Kristen Accola, who visited Cuba in 2006, it was simply prohibitively expensive to try to ship artwork from the island. 
 The only artist in the exhibition who is no longer alive, Ana Mendieta (1948-1985), was sent with her sister by her parents in 1961 to the United States, where they lived in orphanages in Iowa before their mother joined them. Ms. Mendieta moved to New York in 1978 and married the minimalist sculptor Carl Andre in 1985; later that year she died after falling out the window of their 34th-floor apartment. (Mr. Andre was charged with murder but acquitted.)
 Ms. Mendieta was deeply involved with Santeria, the Afro-Cuban religion, and began to use art to explore connections between spirituality, the body and nature in experimental performances documented in photographs and videos. Showing here is a 1980 video of one of her earthwork pieces, in which she created a fiery, smoking silhouette of her body in the earth using gunpowder.
 She was an important influence and inspiration for many artists in this exhibition, among them Mr. Bedia but also Tania Bruguera, who is known for her political performances and sculpture. Ms. Accola has included one of the artist's earlier sculptures, ''Estadistica'' (1998), basically a Cuban flag made out of strands of human hair. It is described in the exhibition catalog as ''a symbol of the all-encompassing sacrifice Cubans make for their country.'' If so, it is a sad sort of work. 
 Those with some knowledge of Cuban art will no doubt find echoes of Ms. Mendieta's concern with cultural displacement and the reinvention of identity in the work of several other artists here, among them Raul Cordero (painting), Carlos Garaicoa (photography), Alejandro Lopez (video), Kcho (drawing and painting), Ernesto Pujol (multimedia) and Jose Angel Vincench (collage). Many of these artists also use art to make sophisticated, if sometimes covert, political statements.
 I was especially taken with Ricardo Elias's photographs of a Braille version of Fidel Castro's book ''History Will Absolve Me.'' That it is a Braille book suggests that its words are for the blind -- those who cannot see the reality of contemporary life in Cuba. Mr. Elias also photographs the book up close and from odd angles, transforming it into a beautiful if abstract object. In this way meaning becomes about appearance, rather than content. 
 Mr. Lopez's contribution is the most memorable. It is an installation of the remnants of a performance in which he dressed up as a fictitious Cuban astronaut (in a red velvet cape and colorful body armor) and walked the streets of New York dragging a giant cigar, his spacecraft, on the back of a tricycle. The work is a spoof of the idea of a Cuban space program. A video of the performance shows the artist interacting with the public to explore how much Americans know about Cuba and the Cuban people. 
 There is so much other great art showing here -- more than 30 works -- that it seems a shame not to be able to mention every artist individually. That is a fine testament not just to the quality of the work but also to the eye of the curator, Ms. Accola, who deserves to be commended highly for this project.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NOTABLE COLLECTION: Works by the Cuban artists Sandra Ceballos, above
Jose Angel Toirac, above right
 Fernando Rodriguez (''Economy of Vertical Space''), far right, and Alejandro Lopez, who spoofed the idea of a Cuban space program. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); HISTORY (77%); FILM (77%); RELIGION (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (69%); MURDER (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



249 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER FREQUENT FLIERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Curves in the Road to Miles Redemption

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
DAVID BORAK, an environmental policy analyst from Washington, has 300,000 frequent-flier miles with United, but for five months now, he hasn't been able to use them for a family vacation in Rome next summer. While his dates are flexible, he said there were no seats available for the so-called Saver price of 50,000 miles.
 Exasperated, he posted a message on FlyerTalk.com, a Web site where travelers share tips about getting the most out of loyalty programs, venting his frustration: ''I could not even find one lousy award ticket (economy or business) for IAD-FCO for the next 12 months!'' he wrote, using the airport codes for Dulles and Leonardo da Vinci Airports. ''What gives?''
 There are similar gripes about nearly every frequent-flier program. ''I've been looking for standard coach seats IAH-HNL for the 1st week of August since last October,'' a Continental OnePass member recently posted, referring to the airports in Houston and Honolulu. ''No luck whatsoever.'' A Southwest Rapid Rewards member who couldn't find any award seats from Virginia to Denver, asked in a post last December, ''Is this a trend?'' 
 In a word, yes. Travelers have long complained about the difficulty of booking frequent-flier tickets, but now it's becoming even harder. One issue is the airline load factor. Seats filled with paying passengers averaged 80 percent in the year ended October, up one percentage point from 2006. The industry considers that level a near-capacity load factor, and as a result, airlines have less incentive to offer award seats on planes they can easily fill with paying passengers. 
 Meanwhile, airlines are issuing miles on credit card payments for everything from groceries to rent, resulting in a glut of miles competing for a shrinking number of seats. On top of this, airlines have been tweaking their frequent-flier programs, making miles both harder to redeem and cheaper in value. 
 On Feb. 1, Continental upped the number of miles required for some of its so-called EasyPass awards, raising the price of a first-class domestic flight to 100,000 miles from 90,000, and the price of the so-called SaverPass award to 50,000 from 45,000. And Delta did away with a key selling point of its premium SkyChoice awards (which cost twice as much, 50,000 miles for a domestic ticket, as its basic SkySaver award): a guarantee of an award ticket as long as there was an open seat on the plane. ''SkyChoice Award Ticket Reservations will continue to be available on most Delta flights,'' according to a statement on delta.com, ''but seats will be limited and possibly unavailable on some flights.''
 Tim Winship, editor at large for SmarterTravel.com and the publisher of FrequentFlier.com, said, ''The currency has been devalued.'' He added, ''It's been this incremental process whereby they raise a little here, they raise a little there, they cut back on the availability of restricted awards, which has the effect of forcing people to redeem twice as many miles.''
 And if award-ticket inflation weren't enough, many airlines have also imposed shorter expiration dates. American, United and US Airways have 18-month expiration policies, and Delta has cut the life span of its SkyMiles from three years to two. The latest to cut back is Alaska Airlines. Effective April 1, it will wipe the miles from any account that has been idle for two years. 
 The airlines say they give away plenty of award seats each year. In fact, they say, more frequent-flier tickets are being awarded than ever: American Airlines issued 4.8 million AAdvantage award tickets and upgrades last year, up about 85 percent from 2006. And Continental issued 1.84 million OnePass award tickets and upgrades last year, up 7.6 percent from the previous year. Those numbers, however, don't reflect how many customers tried to use their miles and failed. 
 Indeed, many frequent fliers have given up trying to score the cheapest award tickets, which typically start at 25,000 miles, saying that it's an exercise in futility. ''I never expect to get the saver awards,'' said Chris Schmandt, a research scientist from Winchester, Mass., who is an elite flier on United. ''I basically go into it thinking I'm going to spend the premium award.''
 And judging by the recent mileage cutbacks, it's probably not going to be any easier. To get the most out of their miles, customers are going to new extremes. To redeem tickets for her parents from Newark to Honolulu for a winter vacation, Mary Tuohy, an elite Continental flier from Manalapan, N.J., searched every day for six months. ''This was my daily job from June until November -- checking on a daily basis, sometimes twice a day,'' she said. Eventually the effort paid off, though it still required some creative booking. The airline suddenly released some award seats on the dates she wanted, and Ms. Tuohy was able to use 55,000 miles for one ticket (coach on the outbound flight, first class on the return). For the second ticket, she paid $1,150 for coach seats and used 17,500 miles to upgrade the return flight to first class. 
 Beyond obsessively checking for new award seats, there's unfortunately little that mileage members can do to improve their chances. One strategy is to search for flights with less demand, like off-season destinations. Award tickets to Europe, for example, are still available if you travel before the summer high season. A recent search on aa.com found plenty of American Airlines tickets between New York and London through June 15 that only cost 40,000 miles -- its cheapest MilesSaver award category. 
 Award tickets may also be available on new routes that have yet to gain traction. Delta, which recently added nonstop service from Kennedy Airport to St. Lucia, still had a smattering of its lowest SkySaver awards (30,000 for the Caribbean) available in a recent search for February and March, despite its being St. Lucia's high season. 
 Be sure to check for award seats on partner airlines. Some airlines are starting to make it easier to do so online. Delta's Web site now lets you search for award tickets for SkyTeam alliance partners, including Continental and Northwest. And don't hesitate to pick up the phone and call the airline directly, recommended Randy Petersen, editor of InsideFlyer magazine. While most airlines charge fees for making award reservations by phone, a booking agent can often pull together an award itinerary using partner airlines. All the major carriers are part of an airline alliance like oneworld, SkyTeam or Star Alliance, which allow travelers to redeem miles for flights on other members. 
 Check out the online forums of FlyerTalk.com, FrequentFlier.com and FlightBliss.com, where mile-obsessed travelers share their strategies for earning and redeeming miles. Some airlines also point out routes on their Web sites that have good award availability at a given time of year. American Airlines recently listed Phoenix; Santa Ana, Calif.; and Colorado Springs among its February AAdvantage Hotspots. US Airways offers its own ''best bets for award travel'' on usairways.com. 
 If you can't find a coach ticket, consider upgrading on longer flights. ''You may be better served from a value standpoint,'' said Mr. Winship of FrequentFlier.com. While a coach ticket from Dallas to Los Angeles costs 25,000 miles, it may be worth only $198 if you bought it yourself. Upgrading to first class, on the other hand, sets you back 30,000 miles, but the ticket would normally cost $1,158 based on recent prices. For the extra legroom, tastier meals and state of mind, it may be well worth your while.
 Give April in Dublin a Try
 Frequent-flier miles are becoming harder to redeem for airline tickets. Here are some tips:
 Search for off-season destinations, like Europe in the spring. The fact that airlines are offering deals like $398 to Dublin suggests that there are likely to be seats up for grabs for travelers looking to use miles.
 Look for new routes, like Delta's flight from Kennedy Airport to St. Lucia, which started on Nov. 15, or American's from Kennedy Airport to St. Kitts, as more seats are often available on recently started routes.
 Cast a wider net by seeking out partner airlines. No award seats to Australia on American? Try its partner Cathay Pacific, which flies there via Hong Kong. 
 Keep checking. Airlines typically load seat inventory 330 days in advance but can release award seats at any time based on cancellations, changes or demand levels. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Practical Traveler column on Feb. 10 about redeeming frequent flier miles misstated the cut-off date for an American Airlines award for tickets between New York and London that cost only 40,000 miles; the offer is through May 15, not June 15. 
The Practical Traveler column on Feb. 10 about redeeming frequent flier miles misstated the cut-off date for an American Airlines award for tickets between New York and London that cost only 40,000 miles; the offer is through May 15, not June 15. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WESLEY BEDROSIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); LOYALTY MARKETING (90%); AIRLINES (89%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); TRENDS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (72%) ITALY (90%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



250 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Going Global With Concerns on Health Costs

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
The United States has long been an unusual study in medical care, with employers assuming much of the cost. Now, though, as the employers say ''enough,'' calls are deepening for the government to take on more of that role through nationalized health care. 
 The opposite situation is unfolding in other parts of the world. As long-running national health systems become overburdened, more employers are paying for workers' supplemental health care costs.
 In countries like India, China and Russia, in fact, health care is the No. 1 benefit desired by workers, said Francis Coleman, senior international consultant with Watson Wyatt, which recently conducted a survey on the subject.
 Employers across the globe are projecting big year-over-year increases in their medical costs, the survey of medical insurers shows. In many cases, costs are rising faster than the inflation rate.
 It's a sign that the United States is far from alone in its hand-wringing over health care. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: COST HEADACHES: Medical costs paid by employers are expected to rise sharply in many countries. (Source: Watson Wyatt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (83%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



251 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Lessons From the Founding Fireplaces

BYLINE: By LARY BLOOM. 
E-mail: conn@nytimes.com

DATELINE: CHESTER 

 BODY:
 DEEP in the winter of our oil-bill discontent, it seemed a wise idea to visit the toasty living room of Charles Van Over for instructions on staying warm the old-fashioned (and more economical) way -- by lighting a fire.
 It's true that Mr. Van Over, at 70, has been much more widely known for his advice in the kitchen than other parts of the house. He served as a restaurant consultant even before he and his wife, Priscilla Martel, opened Restaurant du Village, which helped make Chester a destination. (They sold it in 1990). Their 1997 book, ''The Best Bread Ever,'' argued that the food processor is the key to the perfect loaf. (Mr. Van Over still makes that bread for upscale restaurants.) Recently, he patented the Batard Folding Picnic Knife (and corkscrew), marketed by Lamson & Goodnow. 
 Even in those modern enterprises, Mr. Van Over honored the past. He is a student not only of culinary history but also of the struggles of American pioneers. It was that legacy that taught him the proper way to burn wood. 
 Back then, he lived in Essex, in a house with six fireplaces, where he went through five cords each winter. Like others who yearn for the warmth of the hearth, he did it wrong. The heat escaped up the chimney, and the logs -- though creating spectacular flames -- were consumed quickly. 
 In 1975, the Old Farmer's Almanac helped set him straight. It made clear how Colonial America relied on wood to heat its houses and cook its food. The principles these Colonials employed, with a dab of modern science, became the basis of what might be called the Charlie Van Over Fire School. 
 On a night in January, I attended class. Perhaps by learning this lost art I could help reduce our nation's dependence on foreign oil -- building a proper fire on winter nights could result in a few ounces less of imports. Perhaps readers of this column, collectively informed, could make a bigger difference. And while I was dreaming of accomplishments, I thought that by passing along Mr. Van Over's lessons we could reduce the number of people watching ''American Idol'' -- they'd prefer the abstract expressionism created by their fireplaces. As I say, I was dreaming. 
 When I entered Mr. Van Over's living room, I noticed there was no grate in his fireplace, and the base held an enormous pile of ashes. He said: ''Laziness, not necessity, is the mother of invention.''
 He explained that part of his discovery resulted from his failure to clean out the ashes. The almanac article confirmed that such failure is good for the hearth. The embers ''provide the heat,'' Mr. Van Over said. ''In the old days, a grate was used only when there was a wood shortage, and coal had to be substituted. Coal needs air underneath to burn. If you use a grate with wood, the heat escapes up the chimney.'' 
 The first element of Mr. Van Over's fireplace architecture, above the ashes, is the backlog -- the largest log, eight to ten inches in diameter, and put, naturally, in the back. ''A perfect backlog,'' he said, ''will burn for many hours before having to be replaced -- in our house we call them all-day suckers.'' Smaller logs, the fore logs, belong in the front and atop the pile. 
 He crumpled newspaper pages and placed them in the trough between pieces of seasoned oak. He forages for kindling: twigs, wine corks, spent candle nubs, waxed cardboard boxes, leftover logs from the last fire and even small chunks of Duraflame. 
 ''Don't forget about pine cones,'' Ms. Martel chimed in.
 ''Darling,'' Mr. Van Over replied, ''we want to keep it simple for people.''
 Indeed, it was simple. That's really all there was to it, except to light the fire and watch as it burned slowly and consistently. (Watching the fire is also a safety measure -- never leave it unattended, Mr. Van Over reminds us. Also, andirons can be used to keep logs from rolling out. As for the ashes, keeping a pile as a base is safe, says James Gryzbowski, Chester's fire chief, who recommends cleaning the chimney at least once a year.)
 As we admired the ever-changing work of natural art, Mr. Van Over mentioned that sometimes he uses a Tuscan grill, stored next to the fireplace, for cooking veal stew or beef steak. 
 That night, though, we ate dinner cooked the new-fashioned way, on a gas stove.
 Even so, when we were done, a good three hours after Mr. Van Over first lighted the logs, the original fire still burned. No wood had been added. It was 30 degrees outside and 72 in the living room, with none of the warm air coming from the furnace.
 In one retro night, we had returned to an era when consumption meant preservation. And we felt the glow all around us.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY C.M. GLOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



252 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Now, Feed the Data to the Subprimeoscope

BYLINE: By STEVE BODOW. 
Steve Bodow is the head writer for ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart'' on Comedy Central.

 BODY:
AS a nation, the central question we face just now -- even more than, ''Can I still exchange this dreck for something I might actually wear?'' -- is whether our economy is entering a recession (''recession,'' of course, being technically defined as two consecutive quarters in which office managers keep warning everyone to stop using FedEx for personal mail).
 The stakes could not be higher. When forecasters determine that a recession is possible, businesses and individuals can quickly curb spending and investment, thus causing a recession. Still, getting it right is hard; economic forecasting is like reading tea leaves -- extremely difficult, unless you arrange the leaves into letters and numbers, which is no picnic, either. 
 First some statistics. Inflation has jumped to 4.1 percent. Fourth-quarter personal savings were under 0.5 percent. On employment, the Labor Department reported that nonfarm payrolls dropped 17,000 in January. That was down from December's 18,000 gain, which had been revised up by 4,000, which was down from an earlier Commerce Department revision of up by 6,000, according to the Treasury Department. 
 Lastly, Web searches for the word ''recession'' are up 155 percent, year-over-year, even after controlling for references to hair loss and gum disease. Accordingly, we start with a baseline recession likelihood of 7+.
 Here are some other factors:
 THE HOUSING MARKET We are clearly in the ''contraction'' phase of an extended period of inappropriately robust residential real estate price appreciation. This is widely seen as ''bad,'' and explains the uptick in men walking around in barrels. In fact, October sales of existing homes sank by one-fifth, with sales of make-believe homes faring little better. Additionally, home prices are set to fall nationwide this year. This hasn't happened since 1933, meaning that 2008 will be the first time housing costs will decrease in color. 
 The subprime loan crisis has only exacerbated -- in lay terms, ''more baddened'' -- the trend, which runs particularly high in minority neighborhoods, as well as certain ''transitional'' areas on the verge of becoming ''so over.'' Such news obviously encourages the bears out there; should you encounter one, call animal control and stay in your home, existing or otherwise.
 Supplementary recession delta: +1.5
 CONSUMER SPENDING Time was when no matter what happened to the United States economy, Joe and Julie Consumer were its saviors. Taking advantage of low interest rates, they used their house as an A.T.M., their garage as an ornate neoclassical lobby with chained pens, and the gazebo out back as an armored safe-deposit vault. 
 The money flowed only quicker after the bitter divorce between Joe and his first wife, the former Jill Consumer, nee Jillian Shoppingspree, now back to using her maiden name, thank you very much; lawyers, therapists, physical therapists, and, as Joe and Jill competed for the let's-be-honest already nearly imperceptible affections of an increasingly sullen preteen Joe Jr., toy and candy and sporting goods stores. Everyone made out as the Consumers kept spending like drunken sailors. (Drunken sailors, notably, were seen during the last Fleet Week buying low-risk bonds. In hindsight, something was up.)
 Enter the subprime meltdown. Credit is tight, and the Consumer family -- a metaphor, really -- is badly overextended. Does this spell ''recession?'' Early signal: the preliminary December index of consumer sentiment fell to 74.5 from 76.1. This puzzled economists, who had expected the index to stand at 6 feet 2, a result of thinking they were being asked about something else entirely.
 Contracibility:
 54th percentile 3/5dwnarrow 4/5
 THE DOLLAR Our once-mighty currency has hit lows against the euro, the Japanese yen, the Chinese yuan, World of Warcraft gold pieces, aluminum, copper, sugar and Splenda. But a weak dollar has advantages, allowing more foreign buyers to afford our products, whatever they still are. Special lasers and things.
 Obtuse quality ranking:
 good/pretty good
 OIL It is hard to overstate oil's impact on the overall economy. One could write an entire book on the subject, though no one would read it, because come on. Sure, all of the Middle East's political and religious tensions will cease on March 3, 2009, at precisely midnight local time. (See our white paper, ''The End Times: Draw They Nigh?'')
 Yet the fact remains: Continually increasing demand for oil will inflate prices and hamper growth, until and unless Lake Huron is suddenly found to consist of liquefied brachiosaurus. And even then we'd have to share with Canadians.
 Doom harbinger: Darkness. Darkness all around, + or - rabies
 THE POLITICAL OUTLOOK Some clarity here. Heading into the 2008 election, leaders of both parties have examined the data and, remarkably, reached the same conclusion: Their opponents are ill-informed, irresponsible, crazy rascals. Republicans know that there won't be a recession. Democrats are sure that there will be. Both parties can't possibly be right, but given their records, it's highly probable that both are wrong.
 Fiscal threat appraisal: 3/5shower2 4/5
 After a battery of further research, market checks and watching Fox Business News with the sound turned down, we assimilated available data and metadata into our proprietary model and metamodel. The results -- in which we have 85 percent confidence -- show a 70 percent likelihood of a shallow-to-medium recession with a 60 percent chance of its lasting between 6 and 12 and 18 and 24 months. And you can take that to the bank.
 A final note: This will be our final recession forecast until further notice. We've been laid off. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); EXISTING HOME SALES (75%); PERIODONTAL DISEASES (72%); HOME PRICES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); ANIMAL CONTROL (65%); HAIR LOSS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



253 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: A League of Their Own

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
AVERAGE apartment sale prices in Manhattan soared last month to the highest levels ever, showing the tenacity and power of the luxury market. 
 With at least 15 closings at the expensive new condominiums at 15 Central Park West, and a steady stream of sales at the most exclusive co-ops, including a record-setting $46 million sale on Fifth Avenue, the average apartment sold for nearly $1.75 million, according to a compilation of preliminary industry statistics.
 That was 21 percent above the average sale price reported in the last quarter of 2007 in a market study by Prudential Douglas Elliman. 
 Meanwhile, the average sale price of a condo approached an astonishing $2 million in January, while co-ops, which had poked above $1.1 million in the last few quarters, hit $1.5 million, based on transactions filed by the middle of last week.
 Yet, despite the continuing euphoria in the luxury market, there were signs that the rest of the market was in a holding pattern. The number of closings in January rose sharply compared with a weak December, but remained below levels seen in both co-ops and condos for most of last year.
 And the median price -- the price at which half of all sales were above and half below -- was roughly flat in January, at about $857,000. That was slightly above the median reported last quarter and slightly below the level recorded during the summer. Median prices reflect the broader market without the influence of the mega-sales. 
 Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist at two brokerage firms, Halstead Property and Brown Harris Stevens, says the pace of sales at the upper reaches of the market was set by the availability of trophy apartments that rarely change hands, while buyers in the rest of the market are ''more sensitive to what is going on in the economy and with interest rates.''
 ''Many want to sit on the fence and wait,'' he said. ''Some people have the misconception that we have the same inventory here as in the rest of the country, and it is not even close.''
 The big transactions last month included the $46 million sale of a co-op apartment at 1060 Fifth Avenue, at 87th Street, to Scott A. Bommer, a hedge fund manager. A $32 million duplex at 740 Park Avenue, near 71st Street, sold to D. Randall Winn, the managing director of Capital IQ, a division of Standard & Poor's that provides financial analysis tools, and his wife, Tamara Winn. She is a daughter of Ira Rennert, the billionaire investor who is sometimes credited with having the world's largest home, in the Hamptons. 
 Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chairman and chief executive of Goldman Sachs, paid $26 million for a four-bedroom 6,130-square-foot duplex on the 16th and 17th floors at 15 Central Park West, with an 1,100-square-foot terrace and park views.
 There were also two sales at 1040 Fifth Avenue, at the corner of 85th Street. In mid-January, Mr. Bommer sold his 14th-floor apartment there for $21 million to Jeff T. Blau, the president of the Related Companies, which built the Time Warner Center. 
 Two days later, Edgar Bronfman Jr., the chief executive of the Warner Music Group, and scion of the Bronfman liquor fortune, paid $19.5 million for a similar A-line apartment four floors down. That apartment is now back on the market with a $24 million asking price.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 15 Central Park West 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); STATISTICS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



254 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; PRESERVATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Views Clash Over Old Buildings in Yonkers

BYLINE: By DIANA MARSZALEK

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
 WITH at least two more old Yonkers buildings poised for redevelopment and possible demolition, local and state preservationists are beefing up efforts to save the city's historical properties before they vanish. 
 While such preservation efforts ramped up late last summer, after the historic home known as the Smith-Collins house was razed, preservationists say their work has grown more urgent as the fate of two other old properties, the Glenwood Power Station, on the riverfront, and the Masonic Temple, on Broadway, is being decided.
 City leaders and local history buffs, as well as leaders of the Preservation League of New York State, are hoping to get the two buildings deemed historic landmarks and to see city approval of an ordinance that would require automatic review of requests to raze buildings at least 75 years old. In January, the state preservation league put the power station on its list of New York's most endangered sites. 
 Such efforts, however, will most likely face a stumbling block at City Hall, where a spokesman for Mayor Philip A. Amicone said the mayor would not support initiatives that put preservation before private enterprise. David Simpson, Mr. Amicone's director of communications, said that whether to save certain structures -- particularly those needing expensive repairs -- should be up to the private sector, not city government.
 ''That's not our job,'' Mr. Simpson said. ''We need jobs and economic activity, and if preservation efforts become a roadblock, this mayor is not going to support them.'' 
 The prospect of losing Yonkers's old buildings does not sit well with individuals like Jerry Jerome, a lifelong resident of the city and a 40-year veteran of the Yonkers Historical Society. 
 ''It's kind of sad,'' said Mr. Jerome, who is one of the society's vice presidents.
 He said his interest in preserving the city's historic properties, including an original public bathhouse and Teutonia Hall on Buena Vista Avenue, was piqued late last month when a demolition company held a salvage sale at the Masonic Temple, which dates to 1917 and is owned by neighboring St. Joseph's Medical Center. The salvage sale raised concerns that the building is facing doom, he said.
 The prospect of the loss of two bronze plaques honoring Yonkers's world war veterans was particularly troubling, Mr. Jerome said. The plaques are about 5 feet by 5 feet and had hung inside the temple on the first and second floors for decades, Mr. Jerome said. 
 The sale was halted after one day by the demolition company because of insurance issues. Michael J. Spicer, St. Joseph's president and chief executive, has since said the hospital has told the salvage company not to sell the plaques and instead will find them an appropriate home. 
 Staving off demolition of the Glenwood Power Station, which has been vacant for more than 40 years, recently re-emerged as a priority for preservationists after a proposed development of the site, which included incorporating the existing building, fell through, said Chuck Lesnick, the City Council president. Preservationists consider the power station, with its two smokestacks, to be an important remnant of early 20th century industrial architecture.
 ''It's very important that we make a statement now,'' Mr. Lesnick said.
 He said he was hoping for rapid approval of a revised proposal that would make demolition of buildings 75 years old or older subject to the city Landmarks Preservation Board's review. There is no such automatic review now.
 ''There is a place for shiny new buildings in our city, but they should be built in and among the historic gems that we have,'' Mr. Lesnick said.
 But Mr. Simpson, the mayor's spokesman, said Mr. Amicone opposed the proposed demolition ordinance, saying it could stifle development, and would veto it if it is approved.
 About 5,000 buildings in Yonkers are 75 years or older, but only a portion of them are actually historical properties, and about a dozen each year are slated for demolition, Mr. Lesnick said.
 However, without a historical landmark designation -- neither the power station, which dates to 1906, nor the Masonic Temple has one -- the decision about whether a property is worth saving is up to the owner. 
 Mr. Spicer, the St. Joseph's president, said that while the medical center currently had no approved plan for the site, the most likely possibility includes razing the temple and replacing it with a new physicians' office building. The temple is dilapidated and deteriorating, leaving little prospect for reuse, he said.
 ''It would be a good use of property that right now is an eyesore to the community,'' Mr. Spicer said.
 Similarly, there is no concrete proposal for the power station (the most recent plan called for using the structure as the base of a large condominium complex), although the building is on the market, Mr. Lesnick said. A master plan for its location does include the building's demolition, he said. 
 Other threatened buildings include the vacant Teutonia Hall, built in 1891; it is being eyed by developers. An original bathhouse on Yonkers Avenue, one of several built around the turn of the century to encourage public hygiene as a means of warding off disease, is also on preservationists' wish list. It currently houses a public pool.
 ''We don't want to homogenize the development,'' Mr. Lesnick said. ''We want to have distinctions in our buildings.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ISSUES: While efforts are under way to save sites like the Masonic Temple, above, and the Glenwood Power Station, left, Mayor Philip A. Amicone is against a proposed ordinance, saying it could stifle development. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORY (89%); SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); APPROVALS (69%); VETERANS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



255 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: After Evacuation, Artists Begin an Effort to Save Their Haven

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
The tale of the warehouse-turned-loft building by the banks of the East River in Brooklyn seemed a familiar one, at first. 
 Artists move into a decrepit building, quietly rehabilitate it, live and work there. The city eventually catches on and issues a flurry of violations, forcing the artists into the streets. Developers circle, landlords yield and sell. Condos ensue.
 The roughly 200 residents of 475 Kent Avenue in South Williamsburg were determined that their story have a happier ending. After all, the landlords were on their side -- an unusual alliance. So the residents tackled every violation they could at the building, an 11-story warehouse that had been home to artists, photographers and musicians for more than a decade.
 But they have not been able to move back in, leaving 200 lives, and scores of livelihoods, in limbo. And one reason for the delay is a lesson learned from the deadly fire in the former Deutsche Bank building last year. 
 Three weeks ago, after a routine inspection, firefighters found the building's standpipes broken, the sprinkler system inoperable and heaps of matzo wheat in the basement. One of the landlords, Nachman Brach, operated a two-oven artisan bakery there seasonally, for the Jewish High Holy Days. Not only were the ovens a fire threat, the firefighters concluded, but dust from the grain could explode.
 Within hours, the city evacuated the building, forcing hundreds of people out on one of the winter's iciest nights, scrambling to find places to sleep. The oldest resident was an artist in her 60s; the youngest was a newborn. 
 Those who had to leave included Eve Sussman, whose video ''89 Seconds at Alcazar'' was the toast of the Whitney Biennial in 2004, and David Alan Harvey, the photographer. Melvin Gibbs, who played bass with the Rollins Band, lived there, as did Connie Crothers, the jazz pianist, and Vic Thrill, the lead singer of the 1990s indie punk group the Bogmen. So did Deborah Masters, whose relief mural, as long as a football field and filled with vignettes of street life in New York, is installed at John F. Kennedy International Airport.
 ''I have thousands of tons of sculpture in there. I would need tractor-trailers to house this stuff. And where am I supposed to get money for this in today's economy?'' Ms. Masters asked at a heated meeting on Monday evening between residents and city officials. ''This is a not a bunch of hipsters. These are people who do real stuff.''
 Stories like these rarely end well for artists. Dozens of residents were ousted from lofts in the Dumbo section of Brooklyn after the city found violations in 2000. The tenants fought bitterly with their landlord, Joshua Guttman, accusing him in a lawsuit of harassment and trashing their homes, which he denied. They eventually settled, but they had to leave. Tenants evicted in October from a warehouse at 17-17 Troutman Street in Ridgewood, Queens, have not been allowed back. 
 But things have gone differently at 475 Kent, as the building is known. Granted access during the day, the residents have tackled some violations: clearing debris, fixing fire alarms, replacing light bulbs in exit signs. They say the landlords have helped as well, removing the matzo wheat and having the standpipes fixed.
 ''The intentions have always been good on the part of the landlords,'' said Lillian Maurer, a sculptor and a longtime tenant who lived on the eighth floor and is now temporarily living upstate. ''I don't believe they are trying to put people out of the building.''
 The building does not have a residential certificate of occupancy, but that is not the immediate problem. The immediate problem that stands between residents and their homes is the broken sprinkler system, city officials said. The repair and partial installation, the city said, could take three months. So residents resolved to hasten the process. Twenty people got together and updated plans for each 12,500-square-foot floor. An architect from the sixth floor, Bart Javier, digitally compiled the data to send to the landlords' engineer, for review for the city, a crucial step in getting the sprinkler in. 
 The hope was that the city would allow residents back in as the system was repaired. After all, the building's floors were concrete and fireproof, and the standpipes worked again. Local politicians urged the city to bend.
 But the Fire Department stood firm. In the wake of the fire in August at the former Deutsche Bank building in Lower Manhattan, where a standpipe was not working and two firefighters died, a fire official said it was too risky to let people in while the sprinkler system was being fixed. 
 ''We're sorry you were victimized,'' Deputy Assistant Chief Edward Kilduff, the Brooklyn borough commander with the Fire Department, told residents at last week's meeting. ''But in an age of accountability, we're not taking any chances.'' 
 Mr. Brach, one of the landlords, was devastated by the crackdown, tenants said. He is also losing money. By New York standards, rents at 475 Kent are reasonable but not cheap, ranging from $1,000 to roughly $4,000. Neither Mr. Brach nor his partner, Morris Hartman, would comment for this article.
 ''It was a pure loss for him in every way, a sheer disaster,'' said Xan Price, a filmmaker who lived on the seventh floor. ''He was sitting with his head in his hands, sobbing.''
 Residents were heartbroken and begged officials to let them back in. More than 100 run their businesses out of the studios at 475 Kent. With a partner, Rob Swainston just started a fine art printing studio and has three 4,500-pound presses there. Ms. Masters has her thousands of pounds of plaster, cement and molds. Lee Boroson, a sculptor who helped create studios at the warehouse 10 years ago, said he would almost certainly have to turn down commissions. 
 ''So many people are such die-hard enthusiasts about this building,'' said Ms. Maurer, a sculptor. ''But not everyone can wait too terribly long.''
 The artist hive that became 475 Kent was born 10 years ago. At the time, Ms. Sussman; her companion, Simon Lee, an artist; and Mr. Boroson had been ousted by rising rents and aggressive landlords from artist enclaves elsewhere. The Kent Avenue building, which sits near the Brooklyn Navy Yard, had piqued their interest for years, looming decrepit and foreboding. 
 ''It was dark and looked like it was going to fall down,'' said Mr. Boroson, also a teacher at the Rhode Island School of Design. ''The windows were cinder-blocked up, or just bowed and broken. There were weird bits of metal and wood everywhere. It was a patched-up, Band-Aided building in the worst kind of way.''
 Painstakingly, foot by foot and floor by floor, the three began breathing life into 475 Kent. Colonies of rats were chased out and puddles of pigeon droppings mopped up. Windows were unsealed to reveal startling views of the Manhattan skyline, and of the Manhattan and Williamsburg Bridges. Pipes were stretched; walls were built.
 Word spread, and more artists followed. Ms. Masters moved from Dumbo in 1998, building studios on the seventh floor using money that she said she received from a different settlement with Mr. Guttman. The boxy, soaring building soon became a place where ascendant and established sculptors, writers, filmmakers, musicians, printmakers and photographers worked, collaborated and thrived, and became enmeshed in one another's lives. 
 Dinner parties drew upward of 80 guests. People worked with their doors open. Partnerships were forged. Romances bloomed. Careers did, too.
 ''This community has been organically growing by word of mouth for over 10 years,'' Mr. Thrill, ne Billy Campion, wrote in an e-mail message. He lived in a fourth-floor studio with his wife, Mary Clare, who is nearly six months pregnant. ''It's full of incorporated artists and independent businesses that have worked so hard to find the right setup for something they've been at for 10, 20, 30 years.''
 Mr. Swainston, a printmaker, moved to 475 Kent after graduating from college in 1997. Encouraged and inspired by the people he met, he went on to earn a master's degree in fine art at Columbia, and recently helped found a printing business, S11 Press/Prints of Darkness. He was married on the roof of 475 Kent in August 2001 to Alison Dell. 
 The wedding was a communal affair, set against the backdrop of the bridges to Manhattan, the city's skyline and the twin towers. Ms. Dell wore a dress made by Ashley Tyler, a designer who lived on the ninth floor. Mr. Lee, who lived on the 10th floor, officiated. Bill Warren, from the sixth floor, prepared food in Ms. Masters's kitchen. D.J.'s from the ninth floor spun tunes. Aaron Shepherd from the eighth floor tended bar. 
 ''Somehow it was just part of living there that people were incredibly generous with their time and abilities, and pulled together to get the job done,'' Ms. Dell wrote in an e-mail message.
 During the next few years, the residents watched nervously as other loft buildings throughout the city were deemed illegal and evacuated. But even as Schaefer Landing, a glass-encased condo tower, rose just blocks away, 475 Kent seemed somehow immune. 
 Then, on Jan. 20, a Sunday, the Fire Department came. Shortly after dusk, a vacate order was issued, and the tenants were given until 1:30 a.m. to gather what they needed and get out. A girls yeshiva, which Mr. Brach also owns, and runs in an adjoining building, was ordered shut.
 It was cold, with temperatures sinking to 21 degrees. Frantic phone calls were made as people sought shelter in the East Village, in Bushwick, in Ridgewood, anyplace where friends had extra beds or couches or space to spare on their floors. 
 Those who can hold out until 475 Kent reopens say they will, because they cannot imagine being anywhere else.
 ''This week, I went to look at what real estate had to offer in the neighborhood,'' said Hagai Yardenay, a videographer who lived on the eighth floor. ''All the new construction is tiny, very cookie-cutter, very clean and hygienic. You could almost smell the pharmacy. 
 ''This building is a lot more grungy, but it's real,'' he continued. ''It's magical. It's different. You can't replicate it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The artist Simon Lee helped turn the building at 475 Kent Avenue in Brooklyn into a haven for artists. Three weeks ago, the Fire Department said it was unsafe, and 200 residents were evacuated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A29)
The 11-story building needs a functioning sprinkler system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELLE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Deborah Masters' artwork has been stuck at 475 Kent Avenue since the building was evacuated.
 Guy Lesser, right, lived in the building. During the day, residents can enter and correct problems. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); LITIGATION (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (74%); MUSIC (74%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (74%); FIRES (73%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (68%); BAKERIES (51%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (51%); AIRPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



256 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; YOUR HOME; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Insurance Appraisals: High-Tech Protection

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
GONE are the days when buying homeowner's insurance meant telling your local insurance broker how much you paid for your house and then tacking on a buffer for inflation. 
 Now, particularly for high-end homes and apartments with guaranteed replacement cost coverage, insurers often send out appraisers for a first-hand look at what they will be insuring.
 And, increasingly, that first-hand look involves more than just looking around.
 ''We're applying what used to be commercial technology to uncovering hot and cold spots behind walls and beneath flooring,'' said Mark Schussel, a spokesman for the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies in Warren, N.J. 
 Chubb's appraisers are using HomeScan cameras that employ infrared thermography to spot water damage and fire risk.
 Areas that show up as ''cold spots'' could indicate moisture in a wall or lack of insulation. ''Hot spots,'' Mr. Schussel said, ''could be a sign of electrical arcing, which can lead to a fire.'' 
 If moisture is detected, the appraiser will attempt to find its source. 
 ''We check to see if the gutters are cleaned, whether there is good flashing around the chimney, whether the exterior grading is such that water moves away from the house and whether the roof is nearing the end of its useful life,'' said Scott Spencer, Chubb's worldwide appraisal and loss-prevention manager. 
 The appraisers will even go so far as to make sure that an expensive painting is not hung over a fireplace, where heat and smoke could damage it.
 In storm-prone areas, the company will recommend installation of impact-resistant glass and in colder climates, the installation of low-temperature sensors, to protect pipes from freezing. 
 Gary Raphael, a vice president of Fireman's Fund Insurance in Novato, Calif., said that instead of infrared cameras, his company's appraisers use moisture meters to determine if there are leaks. 
 ''Water behind a wall can do a significant amount of damage, and you may not even know it's happening,'' he said. 
 The appraisers will also examine the plumbing system, including water heaters, toilets and sinks, to identify potential problems.
 Dorothy Sarna, the national director of risk-management services and loss prevention for the AIG Private Client Group in Manhattan, said that her company's appraisers pay attention to items as seemingly insignificant as an ice maker, to make sure it is not leaking.
 In areas and at times that hurricanes are likely, they will instruct clients on how to protect the house and its contents. That could include installing storm shutters where possible, or even moving rugs and valuable furniture to an interior room. 
 ''Loss prevention encompasses a whole range of opportunities to protect clientele,'' Ms. Sarna said. ''We had one client with a valuable wine collection, and we suggested that he install a backup generator to protect the wine in case the power went out.''
 ''Identifying problems is one thing,'' she said. ''Providing solutions is another.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); THERMAL SENSORS (88%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); HUMIDITY & MOISTURE SENSORS (74%); WEATHER (74%); FIRES (73%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (60%)

COMPANY: CHUBB CORP (85%); FIREMAN'S FUND INSURANCE CO (64%)

TICKER: CB (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



257 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; WOODLAWN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Return Trip on the Shamrock Express

BYLINE: By JAMES ANGELOS

 BODY:
IN the north Bronx neighborhood of Woodlawn, where it seems every storefront is adorned with a shamrock, there has been talk lately that the Irish may be coming back.
 In recent years, many Irish immigrants returned to Ireland, drawn by a rapid economic expansion there that began during the 1990s and provided additional work opportunities. Stricter immigration laws in the United States after 9/11 helped drive away many of the undocumented. 
 But some signs suggest that the trend may be reversing.
 ''There's been a renewed interest in people coming back,'' said Siobhan Dennehy, executive director of the Emerald Isle Immigration Center of New York, whose offices are in Woodlawn and in Woodside, Queens, another Irish stronghold. 
 In the past two months, she has noticed more new immigrants coming in to inquire about apartments and job opportunities, she said. Many of the recent arrivals had lived in New York but returned to Ireland within the past few years, with the intention of remaining. As the Irish economy slowed recently, however, and with the cost of living there high, they are returning.
 Danny Moloney, the owner of Liffey Van Lines, a mover, has also seen changes. This month, his company is serving six families who are moving to the New York area from Ireland. Six months ago, Mr. Moloney said, he knew of no one making the move.
 Although a recent article on the subject in The Irish Voice has been the talk of Woodlawn, not everyone is convinced that the numbers are rising.
 ''I haven't seen this new wave everyone's been talking about,'' a waitress at Eileen's Country Kitchen, a busy restaurant on McLean Avenue, just beyond the city line, said in a brogue as she poured coffee for a customer one recent Monday afternoon. ''If there had been new faces in town, I would have seen them.''
 But across the street at the Butcher's Fancy, at least one new face was in evidence, that of Ryan McDade, a 21-year-old with blue eyes and an easy smile, who was standing behind the counter in a white butcher's coat, cleaning a deli slicer. With the rare benefit of a green card, he arrived from Northern Ireland in September. There, he had been a welder, working mostly on fences and gates, but a slowdown in building caused work to dry up.
 ''There was nothing for me there,'' Mr. McDade said. As to the future of Irish immigration to New York? ''They'll be coming back,'' he said, ''because there is no work left in Ireland.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''They'll be coming back,'' predicts Ryan McDade, right, an immigrant who works at the Butcher's Fancy, near Woodlawn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COST OF LIVING (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); RESTAURANTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (91%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



258 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Warning: Fast Driving May Lead to More Trading

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
 IF you get speeding tickets, watch out: The chances are good that you will also engage in possibly dangerous investing behavior, too. That is the implication of a new study that found that individuals who receive more speeding tickets tend to churn their portfolios.
 The study, ''Sensation Seeking, Overconfidence and Trading Activity,'' has been accepted for publication by The Journal of Finance. The authors are Mark S. Grinblatt, a finance professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and Matti Keloharju, a finance professor at the Helsinki School of Economics. A version is at http://www.anderson.ucla.edu/documents/areas/fac/finance/06-06.pdf. 
 The professors were able to find a correlation between speeding tickets and trading frequency after receiving access to several data sets of Finnish investors. Though the professors did not have access to the investors' identities, one of these databases contained details of speeding tickets issued between mid-1997 and the end of 2001 to residents of Helsinki and surrounding areas. Another had information on the portfolios and trading records of all Finnish households from 1995 through 2002. The Finnish government also provided data on the incomes, age, marital status, gender, occupation and homeownership status of all those filing tax returns in 1998 and 1999.
 These rich data sets enabled the professors to eliminate from consideration other possible causes of trading activity and focus on the distinct influence of speeding tickets. They found that, other things being equal, an investor's portfolio turnover rate rose 11 percent after each additional speeding ticket he received. That is a surprisingly strong correlation, and is highly significant from a statistical point of view, according to the professors.
 In an interview, Professor Grinblatt acknowledged that the propensity to speed did not remain constant throughout life. As people grow older, they are likely to become more conservative drivers -- and, not coincidentally, to trade less often. But he stressed that he and his co-researcher controlled for factors like age when conducting their tests. So one way to interpret their findings is that, between two people of the same age, the one who gets a speeding ticket is likely to have 11 percent more turnover in his portfolio.
 Why would the tendency to speed be associated with more trading? One possible factor that the professors explored was overconfidence: If a driver deludes himself into thinking that he can avoid being caught when speeding, he may also delude himself into believing he has above-average stock-picking ability.
 After studying overconfidence, however, the professors concluded that it was not the source of the link. They had also been granted access to the extensive psychological tests that the Finnish armed forces administered to all men upon their induction into mandatory military service, and overconfidence was one trait these tests carefully measured. The professors found that while overconfident investors tended to trade more, the trait was not correlated with their number of speeding tickets.
 (The Finnish authorities devised a way of providing the results of these tests, along with the other sets of data, without divulging anyone's identity, thereby respecting Finland's strict privacy laws.)
 The professors' findings about overconfidence, along with results of other complex tests they conducted, led them to conclude that the correlation between speeding tickets and more frequent trading was caused by something quite different: thrill-seeking. They found that thrill seekers -- those who look for a new and risky experience just for the fun of it -- trade more often not because they have an inflated belief that they can beat the market, but because they find a static portfolio too boring.
 DID the thrill seekers nevertheless improve their returns by trading often? No, the professors found. They found that the stocks bought by the thrill seekers fared no better, on average, than those they sold. 
 If anything, Professor Grinblatt said, the thrill seekers were worse off, after considering transaction costs. They ''cannot justify their trading in terms of their performance,'' he concluded.
 The study provides yet more evidence that psychological motivations play a large role in investment decisions. The implication is that, before we initiate any trade, it's wise to engage in some honest self-reflection about our motivations. Are we trading because there is compelling evidence supporting it, or simply because we find our long-held stocks aren't exciting enough? 
 Undoubtedly, all of us would benefit from periodically asking ourselves this question, but Professor Grinblatt said that it was especially important to ask it after we've been pulled over for speeding. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (89%); SPEED LIMITS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); CONSERVATISM (66%); INTERVIEWS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) FINLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



259 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
Waving Goodbye to Hegemony
 Parag Khanna (Jan. 27) may be right in general outline and in some specifics with his argument for an emerging new world order led by China, the European Union and the United States. But he poses not a single meaningful obstacle for either China or Europe along their paths to such emergence. Under his scenario, the two move only from strength to strength -- sewing up oil and gas contracts, filling power vacuums and winning not so much hearts and minds as some share of transient loyalty from unfailingly canny ''second world'' states. This while the U.S. apparently stands by helpless. 
 His thesis rests on the notion that the aforementioned second-world states will be key in determining how this new world order forms up and, further, that the Middle East is home to the largest share of these states. Fine, but surely then the U.S. relationship with Israel is worth some discussion here. He fails, however, to mention Israel, much less discuss this defining relationship and the implications for the U.S. in the region. 
 The markets for oil and gas figure centrally in Khanna's scenario. If, though, the production, marketing and consumption of oil and gas are going to continue to drive the global economy, the unanimity of the scientific community's predictions for the dire consequences attending that behavior need to be addressed as a central economic concern. Startlingly, Khanna gives global warming only brief mention as an example of a problem needing to be worked out. 
 JAMES MCCARTHY
 Los Angeles
 If the prescience in Parag Khanna's extraordinary article is even half true, I am unwilling to commit to any candidate running for president in 2008 without hearing his or her comments and proposed programs on the topic. I suggest every televised debate present these questions. SUSAN SILVER
 New York
 Parag Khanna identifies important truths, but only some. American problems are perceptively identified, while profound, existential threats to China and Europe are studiously ignored. China is the first country of scale to attempt to graft an autocratic polity onto a free-market economy, and the jury is still out on the ultimate success of this experiment. China is the first culture in history that will have to deal with an enormous cadre of men who may never find wives. 
 We face socioeconomic problems indeed, starting with Medicare, but solutions are known if unpalatable. No one has ever had to solve China's demographic problem. And Europe's demographics are cratering, too. Will the Muslims filling the void carry on in the same ways?
 It is injudicious to predict change by looking at only one side of the coin. JOHN ROGITZ
 San Diego
 Parag Khanna's article misses the one alliance that could keep the United States from losing its strategic and economic influence -- that with Mexico. Mexico, literally on our doorstep, offers a growing market of more than 110 million people, tax-paying guest workers to replace a graying U.S. population, abundant raw materials and a vital link with Latin America. The only thing in the way is the need for the U.S. to do some ''European Union-style'' investment in the infrastructure of Mexico as well as increased investment in education. The rich European countries made Spain, Portugal and Greece their best customers. Now they are doing the same thing with their eastern members. Oh, and yes, the United States needs to look at Mexico as its most important partner, not its problem.
 JAMES C. CLARK
 Chula Vista, Calif.
 How It's Couched
 Daphne Merkin's interesting essay (Jan. 27) suggests that nowadays ''the tweaking of serotonin and dopamine levels is considered more effective than examining the wrong turns of the psyche'' and that ''psychotherapy... has always required a degree of blind faith.'' Popular notions, these, but clinicians familiar with the research of the past 30 years believe otherwise. Well-controlled studies of cognitive-behavioral and other types of psychotherapy have shown them to be as effective as medication for certain kinds of psychological problems, like panic attacks. Indeed, for some disorders, cognitive-behavioral therapy may have longer-lasting effects than medication. Experienced psychiatrists know that both psychotherapy and medication have their proper place and often work best when combined. RONALD PIES, M.D.
 Lexington, Mass.
 What Happened in Vegas Stayed in His Novel
 In his otherwise excellent profile (Jan. 27), Charles McGrath observes that Charles Bock is a ''little old to be a first novelist'' at age 38. Good thing Henry Miller, Anais Nin, Joseph Conrad, George Eliot, Stephen Carter, Julia Glass and the nonagenarian writer Millard Kaufman, to name a few, didn't think they were all washed up when they turned 38.
 McGrath's comment points to how much publishing has followed Hollywood in revering youthful talent. Discovering the next hot 25-year-old novelist has become quite the craze among publishers this past decade. Who knows? Perhaps a few years from now, the notion that a writer actually gets better with age will be an anachronism.
 SUSAN JOSEPHS
 Los Angeles
 Questions for Sheryl Crow
 I'm sure Sheryl Crow's song ''Gasoline'' is highly topical, and it certainly touches on an unusual subject for pop music, but she and Deborah Solomon (Jan. 27) are mistaken in their assumption that it is the first song to deal with the issue of high fuel costs. In 1979, the Kinks humorously addressed high gas prices and the oil shortage in their song ''A Gallon of Gas.'' Sample lyrics: ''I've been waiting for years to buy a brand new Cadillac/But now that I've got one I want to send it right back/I can't afford the gas to fill my luxury limousine/But even if I had the dough no one's got no gasoline.'' JOE DUDMAN
 Portland, Ore.
 Old-School Economics
 Thank you for Christopher Caldwell's article (Jan. 27) and the fascinating statistics that accompany it. Who knew that in America today more people make their living by shuffling and dealing cards in casinos than by operating lathes? Who knew that there are almost three times as many security guards as machinists?
 And let's just think about what it must be telling us about where our national effort is directed. What are blackjack dealers and casinos about? They are there to entertain the population with gambling while stripping them of their money. And what are security guards about? Their function is of course to protect the property of the affluent from the poorer population. Is that what we want our nation to be about, distracting the population while the rich get richer? 
 Caldwell is right that we need to address the real needs of people working in today's economy, but we should also be thinking about what kind of an economy would be more appropriate to our ideals and real needs as Americans. CAROLINE HERZENBERG
 Chicago
 The most troubling part of Caldwell's essay was its disregard for the larger cultural implications of welcoming ''the new economy.'' America's historic task of manufacture informed our national character with virtues that we now relinquish to our own and the world's peril. Caldwell's prototypical economic change, replacing machinists with ''people who make their livings shuffling and dealing cards in casinos,'' relegates the greater part of life, day by day, minute by minute, to mindless entertainment. Others, on starvation wages, will provide our own and the world's necessities while America will provide diversions.
 JEFF ZORN
 San Francisco
 Minorities for Money?
 I disagree with the Ethicist's advice (Jan. 27) regarding financial incentives for hiring minority candidates. While he is correct that presenting a diversity of backgrounds and viewpoints is an important part of any university's mission, the financial incentives as described are unethical and possibly illegal. The university's acceptance of a job application is an implied promise that the candidate will be assessed based on her qualifications for the position, not the interviewer's potential financial gains. 
 Also, it is incorrect to say that the incentives serve to ''broaden the pool of people considered for the job'' -- these incentives fall too late in the process to do so. The goal of a broad applicant pool is a venerable one, but the university would be better served by using the money to finance support programs for minority employees and recruitment programs for minority candidates; that way, the money would be used to attract and retain a diverse work force and applicant pool, not as an incentive for interviewers to choose one candidate over another based on anything but qualifications. ERIN KUKA
 San Francisco
 A Cutting Tradition
 Female circumcision is neither mandated nor recommended in Islam (Sara Corbett, Jan. 20). Your photo gallery shows a particular practice in a particular ethnic group. Culture, not religion, dictates much of what Muslim and non-Muslim people do worldwide. The distinction is essential to make in these times when Islam and Muslims are under the microscope.
 ANISA MEHDI
 Maplewood, N.J.
 Cultural awareness is important, but when a cultural practice harms so many women, we should speak out against it. Let us not label the culture as ''bad,'' but the practice as harmful to women, and one that should be eradicated. Often, this practice represents a transition to womanhood, and advocates should work within the cultural context to find a harmless ritual that could replace female genital mutilation while still accomplishing the symbolic goal. HUMA FARID
 Boston
 The Moral Instinct
 Steven Pinker's thoughtful and fascinating article ( Jan. 13) misses the mark on one point. Bill Gates and Norman Borlaug may have contributed far more to human welfare than Mother Teresa, but she is revered for more than her ''aura of sanctity.'' 
 Most people, I submit, measure the moral worth of an action not only by the good it does but also by the risk or sacrifice it entails. Someone who dives into a freezing river to rescue a drowning person is more admired than someone who throws that person a rope from the safety of the shore, even though both acts save a life. By the same token, Mother Teresa scores moral points for living a conspicuously austere life in order to serve the poor. Any psychological theory of how moral judgments are actually made must take account of perceived costs as well as perceived benefits.
 JEFF TRAVERS
 Cambridge, Mass

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN VAN AELST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); POLITICAL DEBATES (63%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



260 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Global Finance Leaders Warn Of Risk From U.S. Housing Woe

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Finance leaders from the world's wealthiest nations warned Saturday that global economic woes could get worse from the slump in the American housing market, but offered few specific remedies. 
 In a statement issued after meetings in Tokyo, the finance ministers and central bank chiefs of the Group of 7 industrialized nations offered a more pessimistic view of the global economy than they did four months ago, after their last meeting. They also said the fundamental elements of the global economy remained strong and the United States was likely to avoid recession.
 The finance leaders from the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada warned that global growth could continue to slow as a result of the credit crisis set off by America's subprime mortgage problems. The statement also pledged joint action to calm shaken financial markets, but it was short on specifics, especially on steps to rekindle growth. 
 It did not press member nations to pick up the slack from the slowing United States economy by stimulating their own domestic growth. It also did not contain any dramatic joint action, like a coordinated cut in interest rates, as some had hoped.
 ''The world confronts a more challenging and uncertain environment than when we met last October,'' the statement said. ''We will continue to watch developments closely and will continue to take appropriate actions, individually and collectively, in order to secure stability and growth in our economies.'' 
 Members urged China to absorb more imports by raising the value of its currency, which would make foreign goods cheaper for Chinese consumers. They also called on oil-producing nations to help cut energy prices by raising output. Some warned that higher fuel and food costs could cause global inflation.
 Members also said their economies were expected to slow by varying degrees and there was no single fix for global economic troubles. They said they spent much time discussing the severity of housing market troubles in the United States and Washington's efforts to respond.
 The United States Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said after the meeting that he expected market volatility to continue as investors try to assess the fallout from the housing market problems. 
 He also said the United States economy would keep growing this year and he was confident of its long-term health.
 One concrete step to come out of the meeting was a call for banks to fully disclose their losses from the subprime meltdown and quickly rebuild their balance sheets. The German finance minister, Peer Steinbruck, said members agreed that write-offs at banks related to subprime mortgages could reach $400 billion, about four times estimates just a couple of months ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (59%); PEER STEINBRUECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (88%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



261 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths THOMAS, RAYMOND DWIGHT

 BODY:
 THOMAS--Raymond Dwight, of Naples, Florida and formerly of Cherry Hill, New Jersey, died suddenly on January 25, 2008 in Naples, just before his 87th birthday. The third child of Eugenie Hattie Beardsley and Cecil Calvert Thomas, he was born on February 5, 1921 in Chico, California, and raised in Washington, DC. He received a B.S. in Agricultural Economics in 1942 from Cornell and an MBA in 1947 from the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business. 
He served as a deck officer aboard the USS Whipple on convoy escort duty from 1943 to June 1945, when as a Lieutenant (senior grade), he took command of an LSM. After a career in international marketing at the Studebaker Corporation, Avco and Philco International, he started a second career in banking in 1963 at the Fidelity Bank, from which heretired in 1981 as the Executive Vice-President of the Bank and head of the Trust Department. He was predeceased in 2001 by his wife of 58 years, Sara Thomas. He is survived by his sons, Thomas R. Thomas, of Farmington, New Hampshire and Floyd D. Thomas, of Lawrenceville, Georgia, his daughter, Ann F. Thomas, of New York City; nine grandchildren, and two greatgrandchildren. He is also survived by the beloved companion of his later years, Vicki Slawson Barbash, of Naples, Florida. A quietly committed crusader for social justice, gender equality, and political freedom throughout his entire life, he will be deeply missed by all those whose lives he touched. A Memorial Service will be held on Saturday, February 16, 2008, at 11am at the Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Greater Naples, Florida. Donations may be made in his memory to the Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Greater Naples or the the Shelter for Abused Women and Children, P.O. Box 10102, Naples, Florida 34101. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CHILDREN (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); WOMEN (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); AGRICULTURE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (67%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (65%); GENDER EQUALITY (65%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (63%)

COMPANY: FIDELITY BANK HOLDINGS LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (93%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



262 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Borrowers Still Slow to Get Help, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
DESPITE mounting publicity about ways to avoid foreclosure, most borrowers who are struggling to keep up with mortgage payments remain unaware that their lenders are willing to help them.
 A report released late last month by Freddie Mac, one of two government-sponsored businesses that acquire mortgages from lenders and sell them to investors, said that 57 percent of delinquent borrowers did not know about workout options from lenders and companies that service loans on a lender's behalf. 
 That figure has dropped slightly from 61 percent three years ago, but Ingrid Beckles, Freddie Mac's vice president for servicing and asset management, said that it was still ''way too high.'' 
 ''The industry has to continue to come together as it has been, and recognize you can't just make one call to a borrower who's having trouble,'' Ms. Beckles said. ''You have to really try.''
 The Freddie Mac survey, conducted from late October through mid-November, asked borrowers who were more than a month late on their mortgage payments if they knew about foreclosure-avoidance options available from loan servicers. Those options include delaying or reducing payments (''forbearance'' in industry parlance) and restructuring loans, among other things.
 The statistics could understate current awareness among borrowers, Ms. Beckles noted, since the survey was taken before the completion of a mass mailing by Hope Now, an industry group formed to address the foreclosure crisis.
 Hope Now, which is based in Washington, sent nearly 500,000 letters to late-paying borrowers in November and December. 
 Those letters highlighted Hope Now's toll-free counseling services -- (888) 995-HOPE (4673) -- and underscored the message that lenders and servicers want to help borrowers avoid foreclosure.
 Professionals say that lenders typically lose much more money when they foreclose than when they work with borrowers to keep their mortgages viable.
 Meanwhile, the foreclosure crisis shows no signs of abating. According to RealtyTrac, a data collection company in Irvine, Calif., lenders took steps to foreclose on nearly 1.3 million properties last year, a 75 percent increase from 2006. December's foreclosure filings nearly doubled from a year earlier.
 In Connecticut, RealtyTrac reported that foreclosure filings doubled last year, to 11,860. New Jersey's foreclosure filings jumped by 34 percent from 2006, to 31,071 homes. PropertyShark.com reported that foreclosure auctions in New York City jumped 24 percent in January, to 266, compared with January 2007. 
 Even as foreclosure-relief plans move forward at both the federal and state levels, analysts expect worsening problems this year and next, as interest rates rise for millions of people with poor credit who took out adjustable-rate mortgages in recent years.
 Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, recently told a Congressional panel that 2.8 million mortgage holders would default on their loans this year and next. (Default here means that the borrower is at least 120 days late on a payment.) 
 The Freddie Mac survey suggests at least one important shift, Ms. Beckles said. Late-paying borrowers who have been called or sent letters by servicers responded, saying they wanted to avoid foreclosure, at a rate that was 7 percent higher than in 2005.
 ''Given the volumes of people who are in default or are facing imminent foreclosure,'' she said, ''this is a really big difference.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate Chart line graphs for both 3--year fixed rates and 15-year fixed rates. (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUCTIONS (61%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



263 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3208 words

HEADLINE: Will Disney Keep Us Amused?

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: ANAHEIM, Calif. 

 BODY:
-- VISIT Disney's California Adventure -- a 55-acre theme park next door to the fabled progenitor of the modern amusement Mecca, Disneyland -- and you will find a noisy reminder of what happens when a company loses its focus and cuts corners. 
 The Walt Disney Company built the park on the cheap in 2001, and many rides are copies of familiar carnival workhorses like the Ferris wheel. A lack of landscaping can leave guests sweltering. Outdoor shows were borrowed from other Disney properties. And the theme, built around tributes to California, is modest except for an occasionally unintentional ghost-town atmosphere: The park draws about 6 million visitors a year, a trickle compared with the 15 million who swarm Disneyland.
 Now, Disney is embarking on a $1.1 billion, five-year effort to get California Adventure on track. The blueprints call for ripping out ho-hum rides and adding elaborate new ones, rebuilding the park's entrance -- a hodgepodge of turnstiles, a miniature Golden Gate Bridge and pastel tile murals -- to shift the focus to Disney iconography. 
 In June, Disney will unveil a glimpse of the shoot-for-the-moon bet it is making on California Adventure's makeover, with the introduction of a ride called Toy Story Mania. More than three years in the making, and estimated to cost about $80 million, the attraction essentially puts guests inside a video game. 
 Riders, wearing 3-D glasses, board vehicles that career through an old-fashioned carnival midway, operated by characters from the popular ''Toy Story'' film franchise. Vehicles stop at game booths -- 56 giant screens programmed with 3-D animation from Pixar -- and riders play virtual-reality versions of classic carnival games.
 But much more is riding on the attraction than a complex turnaround of just one theme park. Toy Story Mania, which Disney is also installing in Florida, reflects the larger pressures and challenges facing the company's $10.6 billion parks and resorts business. To stay relevant to younger, digitally savvy visitors while also delivering growth to investors, Disney, the company that invented the modern theme park, knows that it has to devise a new era of spectacular attractions rooted in technology.
 One-upmanship increasingly drives this intensely competitive business, and Disney's rivals are also trying harder to gain market share. Universal Studios, part of NBC Universal, has more than quadrupled its spending on new rides, introducing attractions in California and Florida that are based on ''The Simpsons.'' Universal is teaming up with Warner Brothers to bring a small Harry Potter-theme park to Florida in late 2009. Niche players like SeaWorld and Legoland are also muscling in on Disney's territory.
 At its core, however, Toy Story Mania represents an effort to solve a puzzle that poses a much larger threat to Disney and the broader amusement park business. The quickening pace of daily living, advances in personal technology and the rapidly changing media landscape are combining to reshape what consumers expect out of a theme park, Disney executives say.
 Toy Story Mania, which carries a modest price tag compared with some other Disney efforts, demonstrates one way that the company is fighting back, said Jay Rasulo, the chairman of Walt Disney Parks and Resorts. 
 ''Bigger and more expensive is not necessarily the answer,'' Mr. Rasulo said. ''You want people leaving thinking, 'Wow, only Disney could do that.' ''
 Consumers' fixation on instant gratification and personalization has been reshaping the entertainment industry for some time, but it has finally caught up to the theme park business in visible ways. For instance, Disney has spent much more effort -- and money -- developing ways to entertain people as they stand in line for Toy Story Mania. 
 An animatronic figure with an estimated $1 million price tag will sing songs and interact with guests as they wait. Employees dressed as ''Toy Story'' characters will stroll among the crowds. 
 ''There's an erosion of patience,'' said Bruce Vaughn, the chief creative executive for Walt Disney Imagineering, the company's development group. ''People's tolerance for lines is decreasing at a rapid rate.''
 Mr. Rasulo said that younger visitors, in particular, expect customized entertainment. So Toy Story Mania's computers will accommodate riders of various skill levels.
 ''Guests are pretty much no longer interested in being passive viewers,'' Mr. Rasulo said.
 To address shifting tastes, the broader amusement park industry will have to rewrite its operating rules, said Jerry Aldrich, the founder of Amusement Industry Consulting. ''Disney is already there, but a lot of parks are just waking up to this,'' he said.
 The health of the parks and resorts unit is crucial to Disney's overall performance. Its lucrative sports unit, ESPN, makes more money, and its movie studio basks in Hollywood glamour. But the parks, where people interact with Mickey and his pals, are the reason that the Disney brand is so powerful, analysts say. As the theme parks go, so goes Disney.
 Lately, Wall Street has been sounding alarm bells about the unit -- and not just about California Adventure. While Disneyland and the cluster of Florida parks that make up Disney World have been churning out record profits on strong increases in attendance, some investors worry that the troubled domestic economy will tear a hole in the business. In late January, a Citigroup analyst downgraded Disney's stock to a sell, citing concern about lower demand for hotel rooms at the resorts.
 DISNEY strongly rejects the skepticism, and some other analysts agree. Disney's chief financial officer, Thomas O. Staggs, said the company saw no indication that consumers were cutting back. ''We are pleased with the current pace of business at our parks, particularly given the record attendance we achieved last year,'' he told analysts on Tuesday during a conference call, held as the company released fiscal first-quarter earnings. 
 Vacationers from Europe and Asia, benefiting from a weak dollar, could pick up some of the slack in the event of an economic downturn, but that could lead to cannibalization -- Disney needs those same visitors to patronize theme parks in Paris, Hong Kong and Tokyo. 
 Although its performance has drastically improved from its early days, Disneyland Resort Paris is still struggling after 10 years of changes and heavy capital investment. The park in Japan is cruising right along, but attendance at nearby Hong Kong Disneyland, the company's newest park, has fallen more than 25 percent since its 2005 opening. Disney told analysts on Tuesday that attendance in Hong Kong has recently ''improved significantly'' because of new promotions.
 To make certain that Toy Story Mania is a hit -- part of a strategic effort to keep mining revenue from the 13-year-old ''Toy Story'' franchise -- Disney is pulling every lever in its vast arsenal. 
 Pixar, the Disney-owned studio working on ''Toy Story 3'' for a 2010 release, contributed animation and general creative advice. Disney VR Studios, the company's video game unit, customized software, while the parks and resorts unit handled the heavy lifting of design and construction. The media networks division, which includes ABC, will help publicize the ride once it opens -- along with hundreds of other promotional partners.
 ''We have an incredible number of engines at this company, and every one is firing around this franchise,'' Mr. Rasulo said.
 WORK on Toy Story Mania got under way on a stiflingly hot September day in 2005, when a team of Disney creative developers went to the Los Angeles County Fair. The goal was to research how carnival games operate.
 Two developers, Kevin Rafferty and Robert Coltrin, had devised an idea for a new California Adventure ride that would juxtapose the old-fashioned romance of a carnival midway with high-tech video game elements. They had a hunch that ''Toy Story'' and ''Toy Story 2,'' the Pixar films about toys coming to life, would provide a good theme. But they didn't know much about carnival games. 
 ''We looked at each other and said, 'Are the games we remember from our childhoods even relevant anymore?' '' Mr. Coltrin said.
 At the fair, the two were thrilled as they walked through rows of game booths -- wooden structures that carnival operators call ''stick joints'' -- to find crowds enjoying classic games like the ring toss and water guns. ''We were like, 'Score!' and gave each other a high-five,'' Mr. Coltrin recalled.
 Using digital cameras, members of the development team documented details, from the colors of the canvas covering each booth -- red and yellow -- to how far apart the games were spaced. They quickly ruled out some games as options for the ride. ''Toss a coin in a cup didn't really do it for us,'' said Chrissie Allen, a senior show producer. 
 But other games, like one in which customers threw darts at balloons, piqued their interest. ''We thought, 'This just might work,' '' Ms. Allen said.
 Reassembling at Disney's offices in Glendale, Calif., the team worked on the concept that would become Toy Story Mania. Because carnivals sell commotion, there would be lots of flashing lights, barkers trying to capture riders' attention, buzzers and bells.
 Mr. Rafferty and Mr. Coltrin dreamed up a fanciful story: The classic toys in ''Toy Story'' had come to life and staged a carnival under their owner's bed while he was away at dinner. Little Bo Peep would operate the balloon darts; Ham, the talking piggy bank, would cheer riders as they tossed virtual eggs at barn animals. The culmination would be ''Woody's Rootin' Tootin' Gallery,'' a twist on old-fashioned shooting galleries. 
 They would use full-scale 3-D animation, a first for a Disney ride. That, Mr. Vaughn said, would make riders feel as if they were inside a video game or a virtual world. ''We look at it as gaming meets immersive storytelling,'' he said.
 While Mr. Vaughn and his colleagues were cogitating in the fall of 2005, Disney had its hands full. Robert A. Iger had just taken over the company after the exit of Michael D. Eisner and was working to extend Disney's partnership with Pixar, an effort that would result in a $7.4 billion acquisition.
 When Mr. Rasulo and his team presented Mr. Iger with plans for Toy Story Mania, Mr. Iger was interested but cautious. Would that dovetail with much larger efforts to overhaul the entire park? The ride could handle up to 1,500 riders an hour. Was that enough? An improved relationship with Pixar looked promising, but what if a deal couldn't be reached? Would that hinder plans to build a lavish ride around Pixar's core creative property?
 But Mr. Iger liked a couple of the important parts of the proposal. Imagineers (Disney's term for creative developers) suggested building versions of the ride at the same time in California and Florida -- a Disney first -- to leverage the development costs. Another component involved the ease with which the ride could be rethemed every season.
 ''The chance to take simple games that people have loved playing for generations and pairing them with cutting-edge technology just sounded exhilarating to everybody,'' Ms. Allen said. 
 BUILDING elaborate models is among the first formal steps in creating a Disney attraction. Engineers, paying attention to scale and sight lines, want to find out how a planned addition would affect the existing park.
 Models are built on large tables equipped with wheels. The company keeps room-size models of entire parks, and engineers will eventually wheel the new model into that area to see how it looks.
 To give birth to Toy Story Mania, Mr. Rafferty and Mr. Coltrin went to work turning drawings of the ride into foam models, toiling in the same 1950s-era building in suburban Los Angeles where Walt Disney himself once tinkered. 
 Tweaks started to happen. The team added turrets to the top of the ride for a more dramatic flair. They shifted the direction of the facade by a few degrees to make it more visible from the park entrance. ''And we knew at this stage that we wanted a little piece of magic out in front as a tease to people as they waited in line,'' Mr. Coltrin said.
 Upstairs, designers entered blueprints for the ride into a computer program. This would allow them to start building and refining the entire project, which is made up of 150 computers, with 90 of them moving around on the ride vehicles and communicating with one another via a secured wireless network. With a click of a mouse, developers could jump to any spot inside in the vehicles for a virtual dip into how the experience might look to someone on the ride.
 ''We don't want anybody to be able to see multiple versions of Woody at the same time, and seconds make a difference,'' said Mark Mine, the technical concept designer. ''Every part of the ride has to be magical.
 ''It is much easier and less expensive to do this before the concrete has been poured,'' he added. ''As rides become more complicated, your ability to tweak in the field gets harder and much more expensive.''
 Across the street, in a cold, unmarked garage, Ms. Allen helped to conduct ''play tests'' on rudimentary versions of the ride. More than 400 people of all ages -- all had signed strict nondisclosure agreements -- sat on a plywood vehicle set up in front of a projection screen and played various versions of the games. Disney workers studied their reactions and interviewed them afterward.
 ''We were looking to see if some effects were too scary,'' Ms. Allen said, ''or if there wasn't enough laughing happening during certain sequences.'' 
 Among the discoveries: People wanted to be able to compare scores after they were finished playing, while some children had a hard time reaching the cannonlike firing controller, christened by Disney as a ''spring action shooter.'' Engineers added a computer screen to vehicles to display scores and installed the controls on movable lap bars. 
 ''We were trying to find out things we didn't even know to ask about,'' said Sue Bryan, a senior show producer.
 The ride's psychological components started to take shape during this phase. Disney decided that riders were happier when they got a bigger visual payoff. (One of Little Bo Peep's balloons now pops with greater force when hit with a virtual dart and a blast of air shoots into a rider's face.) A game involving shooting at a paper target was dropped. (''It was hard to make paper interesting,'' Ms. Bryan said.) And developers decided that the last game before the exit needed to be the easiest, so riders would feel that they were coming out as winners, even if they weren't very good.
 After Disney closed the Pixar deal, in January 2006, Toy Story Mania became more elaborate. Mr. Iger wanted Pixar -- and particularly one of its co-founders, John Lasseter, who had worked as a skipper on the Jungle Cruise ride at Disneyland after college -- to contribute to creative advances in the parks. Disney had incorporated Pixar movies into its theme parks before, but Pixar's involvement in those efforts was modest, Mr. Vaughn said.
 ''The minute Pixar became 100 percent part of the family, it could go whole hog and dive in,'' he said.
 One of Mr. Lasseter's major concerns about Toy Story Mania centered on the animation, various developers said. Disney had hired an outside contractor to handle it, but Mr. Lasseter insisted that Pixar staff members who were involved in creating the films should also work on the ride.
 The Disney team had also decided to leave out Buzz Lightyear, the modern spaceman toy in the films, because he was already showcased in an older ride called Astro Blasters. But Pixar felt that the character was essential to the ''Toy Story'' franchise. Buzz will now be a host of a game, and he shares top billing on the ride's marquee.
 Creating what Mr. Coltrin had called ''a little piece of magic'' was another area of special attention for Mr. Lasseter and his lieutenants. To entertain people as they waited in line, the developers decided to place one of Disney's signature animatronic figures outside. It would draw attention like a carnival barker, but also be sophisticated enough to interact one on one with guests, adding another element of customization.
 Only one ''Toy Story'' figure was considered for the role: Mr. Potato Head.
 WORK on Mr. Potato Head started last year in a heavily guarded Disney research plant a few miles from the company's headquarters in Burbank, Calif. Developers had to make a five-foot-tall plastic potato sing, dance and seemingly hold conversations with people at random. The robot also had to be able to remove his ear and put it back on.
 ''It's all in the math,'' said Jimmy A. Thomas, the lead mechanical designer.
 When Walt Disney introduced animatronics in the 1960s, coining the word in the process, his creations moved in simple ways through the use of pneumatic valves and hydraulic pumps. The children in the It's a Small World attraction wowed patrons simply by blinking their eyes and bowing.
 Modern visitors expect much more. Mr. Potato Head -- with help from a dozen video cameras, several computers, an unseen ride operator and a $1 million budget -- will be able to make his mouth form words, a first for Disney animatronics. 
 The comedian Don Rickles, whose gravelly voice brought the character to life in the films, was hired to record 750 words and four songs. The hidden ride operator, armed with a computer and cameras that scan the crowd, will then choose phrases based on the actions and appearance of people standing in front of it. (''Hey, you in the red baseball hat.'')
 The goal was to make the character so perfect that it looked as if it had just stepped out of the movies. Pixar executives tightly monitored every detail and helped direct Mr. Rickles. At a recent taping, the Pixar team put him through his paces.
 ''Let's put a little more chuckle in that line,'' said Roger Gould, Pixar's creative director, sitting in a recording studio as 10 other executives and engineers took notes and adjusted instruments.
 Mr. Rickles complied, repeating a line that would play if the ride stopped unexpectedly. ''Folks, we're having a little delay here,'' he said. ''For your safety, please stay seated inside the game tram.''
 Among Disneyphiles, at least, the wait for Toy Story Mania to open is unbearable. Blogs like Blue Sky Disney and Mice Age, which are not affiliated with the company, have been chronicling minute details of the construction. (''The first ride vehicles have just arrived in California from their production facility in Osaka, Japan!'') 
 Al Lutz, the publisher of Mice Age and a critic of what he calls California Adventure's ''cheap strip-mall stucco'' aesthetic, says fans are keen to see the ride's over-the-top details. Disney is, after all, a company that studied how the sun struck the earth differently in various locations to determine the color of paint to use on the fairy-tale castle at the center of each resort.
 ''Young people are going to be fighting to be first in line,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Walt Disney Company is building a robotic Mr. Potato Head to greet visitors at a theme park that is being digitally refitted to entice the video generation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CY1)
Creative developers at Disney test a 3-D ride that includes virtual-reality versions of classic carnival games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Kevin Rafferty, left, a developer, and Roger Gould, standing, creative director at Pixar, worked with Don Rickles on the script for Mr. Potato Head. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DISNEY) (pg.CY8) chart: AMUSEMENT AND DISAPPOINTMENT: While Disney World and Disneyland continue to enjoy large numbers of visitors, their sister park California Adventure has stumbled since it was founded in 2001. (Source: Economics Research Associates
TEA
 the Walt Disney Company) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (89%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); RESORTS (71%); ANIMATION (69%); VIRTUAL REALITY (69%); ANIMATED FILMS (68%); COMPUTER GAMES (64%); MARKET SHARE (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (94%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (92%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (51%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



264 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2396 words

HEADLINE: Brothers In Arms

BYLINE: By ADAM B. ELLICK; Jigar Mehta contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Mahammed Farooqi, a 49-year-old Pakistani news addict, was snoring through the story of his generation.
 It was 8 a.m. on Dec. 27, and Benazir Bhutto, Pakistan's opposition leader, had just been assassinated as her motorcade inched through a dense crowd in her homeland. 
 Under ordinary circumstances, Mr. Farooqi would have been the first to know about such a politically transforming event. Every night, while his wife is sleeping peacefully in the bedroom, he dozes on the sofa in the living room of his house in Dix Hills on Long Island, with the television set on. 
 On this historic Thursday, however, neither the television nor the incessant callers from around the world managed to wake him. The previous day, Mr. Farooqi, the editor and publisher of The Pakistan Post, a free, Queens-based newspaper that reveres Ms. Bhutto, had completed his weekly 34-hour sprint to churn out his 20-page issue. 
 Among the more persistent callers was Khalil ur Rehman, a journalist who is Mr. Farooqi's counterpart on the other side of the political fence.
 Mr. Khalil, a stout, bearded 55-year-old who lives in Shirley, Long Island, is the editor of The Urdu Times, the city's other top Pakistani weekly. His publication fervently supports President Pervez Musharraf, the former general who had been Ms. Bhutto's chief rival since 2002 and who was immediately accused by some members of her party of orchestrating her assassination. He has denied the charge.
 Predictably, the two editors reacted to the killing in totally opposite fashion.
 ''I told him Pakistan isn't dying,'' Mr. Khalil said. ''This thing will be good for Pakistan.''
 But in the opinion of Mr. Farooqi, the killing extinguished hope for democracy in the country from which they both emigrated decades ago. ''He's a fascist,'' Mr. Farooqi said of his counterpart. ''He was happy. He said life goes on.'' 
 The contrast between these two men transcends politics and publishing.
 Mr. Farooqi is a disheveled, chain-smoking Muslim who boasts of his journalistic exclusives. Mr. Khalil is a dapper, entrepreneurial atheist who enjoys his whiskey and boasts about the lucrative advertisements he garners for his publication.
 While their Urdu-language pages exploit the divided political loyalties within New York's 400,000-member-strong Pakistani community, these two editors are physically divided only by the wall between the unmarked storefronts in which they work, on Hillside Avenue in the Pakistani enclave in Jamaica, Queens.
 With parliamentary elections in Pakistan scheduled for Feb. 18, these neighboring storefronts offer a window into Pakistan's embattled politics. Yet in a nation haunted by 60 years of political turmoil, the situation is never as it appears. Nor is the 17-year relationship between these men, who, despite their differing styles and ideologies, were business partners and are now best friends. 
 Shudders and a Shrug
 The morning after Ms. Bhutto's killing, in the second-floor newsroom of The Pakistan Post, Mr. Farooqi stared blankly at satellite television coverage showing Ms. Bhutto's coffin bobbing atop a protesting crowd.
 ''I'm a psych patient today,'' he said, lighting a cigarette. ''I'm talking, I'm walking, I'm driving, but I have no will to do anything.'' 
 A year ago, on one of Ms. Bhutto's final visits to New York, Mr. Farooqi had urged her to return home from exile. ''I said to her: 'You keep saying Pakistani people should speak out against the regime. Why should they when you're in New York with a big car, a driver and kids in Dubai? You have to face the problem.' '' Now he feels guilt-stricken.
 Next door, in the basement newsroom of The Urdu Times, a very different mood prevailed. There was no television; instead, Mr. Khalil bent over a computer screen and proudly pointed out his newspaper's 14 online editions, which are published in the United States, Canada and Britain. 
 ''He talks too much about -- what do you call it? -- democracy,'' Mr. Khalil said of his rival editor. ''He's confused. Bhutto became the prime minister twice, and both terms she wasn't able to resolve the problems.'' 
 New Lives, Two Newspapers
 Mr. Farooqi has two addictions: cigarettes and journalism. He fixates on both each night, waking up on the hour to smoke -- burn marks line his fingers -- or to telephone sources in Pakistan in pursuit of his next exclusive. 
 ''My only skill is journalism,'' he said a few days after Ms. Bhutto's death, taking a break from drafting an editorial. ''I can't do anything else, can't fix a car. My children always say, 'Turn off the phone.' But you know, it's an addiction. To educate people on what is going on, this is my love, this is my passion, this is my romance, this is what I believe my body desires. It's my peanut and butter.''
 Born in a lower-middle-class family in Karachi, Mr. Farooqi began his journalism career in Pakistan in the early 1980s, and in 1986 covered Ms. Bhutto's initial return from exile. It would be his first of dozens of interviews with her; two decades later, in Washington, Ms. Bhutto would preside over the official debut of the English-language edition of his newspaper. 
 But in 1986, with the political situation in Pakistan worsening, the 28-year-old idealist immigrated to Queens. On his second day in Jamaica, he took a job at a grocery store, where for three years he earned $1 an hour dusting magazines. Later he drove a taxi.
 During those years, Mr. Farooqi started two monthly newspapers. The first folded after one issue. The second lasted 10 issues. His big break came in 1991, when he met Mr. Khalil.
 Mr. Khalil was raised in an upper-middle-class publishing family in Islamabad. His parents, who were traditional, disapproved of his marrying, claiming he was too young, but he married anyway, and in 1977, at age 24, he moved to Jamaica in search of personal and religious liberation.
 He found it. ''My five children have never set foot in a mosque,'' he said proudly, as if describing a straight-A report card.
 Like Mr. Farooqi, Mr. Khalil spent several years working in menial jobs as a grocery store clerk and a deliveryman, but by 1981 he was running a pair of carpet stores. In an expression of his interest in social change, he also became active in the city's then burgeoning Pakistani community. 
 In 1982, when an Indian immigrant began publishing an anti-Pakistani newspaper, Mr. Khalil was so perturbed that he barged into the man's office and begged him to stop writing negatively about his homeland. The publisher dared Mr. Khalil to knock him out of business. 
 An hour later, Mr. Khalil was planning his first newspaper, The Eastern Times. The paper eventually folded, but a few years later, now back on his feet financially, Mr. Khalil was offered a chance to take over a Pakistani newspaper, The Urdu Times. 
 Mr. Khalil jumped at the offer. In 1991, he moved the paper's office from Manhattan to Jamaica and promptly hired a down-and-out as his editor. That man was Mr. Farooqi. 
 A Rift, Then a Bond
 It seemed like a match made in newspaper heaven. But after only three months, a bitter fight ensued involving financial matters. Regarding this dispute, the two men agree on only one fact: Days after the fight, Mr. Farooqi started The Pakistan Post, and the two didn't speak for the next three years. But by 1994, in response to rising immigration from Pakistan, the Urdu-language newspaper market began to swell. Prompted by economic considerations, the two leading publishers agreed to meet with each other. In a bid to monopolize the market, they said, they set a minimum advertising rate, and they have coexisted ever since. 
 Their publications, meanwhile, became local heavyweights, so much so that in 1995, Ms. Bhutto's party, which was then in power, offered each newspaper $95,000 for a year of positive coverage. At the time, both editors declined the offer and publicized it. 
 Last May, the two had a full-fledged reconciliation, which they both attribute to ''old age.'' Now they talk several times a day and are bound by a shared skepticism of many groups within the Pakistani community, which, they contend, do not have local interests at heart. And each man is the other's favorite companion.
 ''If I don't find Mr. Khalil in the evening,'' Mr. Farooqi said, plopping a cigarette butt into a stale cup of Dunkin' Donuts coffee, ''I go directly home.'' 
 On another occasion, Mr. Khalil said: ''The moment I walk into my home, my wife says, 'You're hanging around him?' I say, 'How do you know?' She says, 'Because you smell like cigarettes.' '' 
 ''And believe me,'' Mr. Farooqi interjected. ''When I get drunk, my wife says, 'You're with Khalil.' ''
 At least once a week the two men travel around the city inspecting the 200 newspaper distribution spots, mostly at diners like Kebab King in Jackson Heights and Punjab Restaurant in Coney Island, where their free papers are stacked atop metal racks. On these visits, they ensure their papers are displayed more prominently than the eight smaller Pakistani weeklies that also compete for the top shelf. Yet theirs is a delicate friendship. On one recent drive, the men were asked if they would ever merge their newspapers.
 ''Don't ask touchy questions!'' Mr. Farooqi replied with some heat. ''All right?''
 Nasim Syed, a poet and political commentator who has written for both publications, describes the friendship by stretching his hands back and forth as if he is playing an accordion. 
 ''Come back next week,'' Mr. Syed said, ''and they won't be friends.'' 
 The Fate of a Nation
 Six days after the Bhutto assassination, in a ballet that involved a complicated blend of political passion and global technology, both Mr. Farooqi and Mr. Khalil were working grueling overnight shifts to close their first issues following her death. 
 Because neither of the editors can type quickly in Urdu, both men fax handwritten articles to Pakistan, where they are typed and laid out. Final proofs are e-mailed back to the editors, and printing takes place at separate presses in Queens. 
 By 8 that night, Mr. Farooqi's grief was all but forgotten. 
 ''This is the defining moment for Pakistan,'' he said of the forthcoming elections. ''I have the feeling that if we don't understand the situation, we're going to lose the country.''
 Later that night, Mr. Farooqi began working his phone every two minutes, dialing Pakistan with impressive dexterity for a man who cannot type. 
 ''I've already asked him five times,'' he said to a source in Urdu. ''I'll ask him one more time. Give him the phone. Give it to him in the bathroom.''
 News had arrived: The date for the new election would be announced at 9 in the morning, six hours after both papers were scheduled to go to press. Without a flash of hesitation, Mr. Farooqi opted to wait.
 His main headline, on the other hand, was already written: ''The Benazir killing robs her party, and robs the people of Pakistan.'' The articles suggested that Ms. Bhutto had been killed not by radical Islamists but by agents of the Musharraf regime. 
 Asma Amanat, a 24-year-old intern who produces the English-language supplement that The Pakistan Post publishes, smirked as the proofs arrived. ''It's a Bhutto flier,'' she said within hearing of her boss. Flipping through the pages of a previous edition, she added: ''Here's Bhutto. This is about Bhutto. That's Bhutto there.'' 
 ''She's my critic,'' Mr. Farooqi said of his intern. ''But I don't support Bhutto. I always support democracy, free speech and human rights. And if you believe in that, you have to support Bhutto.'' 
 Next door at The Urdu Times, Mr. Khalil's ads were in place. He couldn't be bothered to wait for the announcement of the new election date. 
 He summarized his lead story with a shrug: ''Musharraf is committed to democracy. He's sincere: Nothing will change.''
 Mr. Khalil acknowledges that his politics are driven more by practicality than by ideology. ''This used to be a passion, but now it's a business,'' he said. ''For the last 25 years, my kids, my wife, everybody suffered because of this newspaper. So nowadays we write whatever our readers want.''
 Ideally, he said, Pakistan would not be run by a military dictatorship. But he does not believe that a country in which a plate of biryani still buys a vote is ready for democracy.
 President Musharraf, he said, has developed local industry and is the appropriate strongman to confront potentially divisive radical Islamists. ''Opposition parties are just dynasties,'' he said of the Bhutto family, which owns numerous houses abroad. ''She corrupted the nation. At least when the army corrupts, they spend it locally.''
 Ripples of Resentment
 In both newsrooms, the awkward friendship causes uneasiness among the small staffs.
 At 9 at night, without a knock or a buzz, Mr. Khalil climbed the steps to The Pakistan Post and walked into the cloud of smoke that is Mr. Farooqi's unventilated office.
 Mohammad Farrukh, The Post's 36-year-old editor, looked up in disgust. ''No one should come to our office,'' Mr. Farrukh said as he stood out of earshot in the hallway. ''We're not a grocery store. We're not a gas station.''
 In the basement next door, where Mr. Khalil's wife, Anjum Khalil, and his 30-year-old son, Atif, serve as his overnight staff, there is similar discontent about the relationship between the men.
 ''If I had a fight like that, I probably wouldn't talk to that person,'' said Atif Khalil, a bookish individual who reads Noam Chomsky between fielding calls from his layout liaison in Pakistan. ''But my dad still sends me up there to help him with computer problems.''
 Still, no manner of repairs can aid the ailing Urdu-language press. Immigration from Pakistan ceased after the attacks of 9/11, as thousands of illegal immigrants from Pakistan left the United States for Canada and Dubai. Compounding the problem, most members of the younger generation cannot read or write in Urdu.
 And as these two men ponder an uncertain future, they are haunted by one dispiriting thought: despite 16 years of weekly reports, little if anything has changed in their homeland.
 ''I'm born in chaos, and I'm now working in chaos, and I have a feeling that when I die, Pakistan will be in the same position,'' Mr. Farooqi said. ''Since my childhood, I haven't heard any good news about my country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COMPETITORS, FRIENDS: Mahammed Farooqi, above, and Khalil ur Rehman, below, rival newspaper editors in Queens who will be closely following the elections in Pakistan on Feb. 18. (PHOTOGRAPHs BY MICHAEL NAGL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CY1)
RIVALS: Khalil ur Rehman, top, with his wife and managing editor of The Urdu Times, Anjum Khalil, and Samina Bilqees, above, a Pakistan Post employee.
TEA BREAK: Mahammed Farooqi, left, and Mr. Khalil in Jackson Heights. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE AND BELOW, RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BOTTOM LEFT, MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CY8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PUBLISHING (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); ELECTIONS (66%); RETAILERS (65%); RELIGION (60%); SMOKING (50%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (89%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



265 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; POLITICS ISSUE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Left Wing and a Prayer

BYLINE: By R. SCOTT APPLEBY. 
R. Scott Appleby is a professor of history and a director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame.

 BODY:
THE PARTY FAITHFUL 
 How and Why Democrats Are Closing the God Gap. 
 By Amy Sullivan. 
 256 pp. Scribner. $25. 
 SOULED OUT 
 Reclaiming Faith and Politics After the Religious Right. 
 By E. J. Dionne Jr. 
 251 pp. Princeton University Press. $24.95. 
 The leadership of the Democratic Party, to its misfortune, has tended to confuse the religious right with religion, period. As a result, they can now look back at a long campaign of successful efforts to alienate white Christians, who make up two-thirds of the American electorate. 
 At the 1972 national convention in Miami, for example, when party progressives banished the Chicago mayor Richard J. Daley and his 58 handpicked delegates, most of them ethnic Catholics, in order to lend greater gender and racial balance to the Illinois delegation. At the failure, during the Carter years, to prevent the loss of jobs by blue-collar Catholics in the Rust Belt. At the elevation of abortion rights to canonical status and the silencing of Democratic voices in opposition, like that of the Pennsylvania governor and pro-life Catholic Robert Casey, a convinced liberal on universal health care, poverty reduction, education and the like, who was denied the podium at the 1992 Democratic National Convention. (However, many alienated Democrats came home to vote for religiously literate Bill Clinton in 1992, whose pro-choice mantra promised that abortions during his administration would be ''safe, legal and rare.'') 
 Nor were the party elites terribly distraught when their 2004 presidential nominee, John Kerry, a serious Catholic who mumbled and stumbled around that potentially appealing fact early in the campaign, landed in hot water with a handful of ultra-aggressive Catholic bishops. Although this minority's heavy-handed threats to deny Communion to a pro-choice Catholic candidate were met with quiet disdain -- episcopal omerta -- by a majority of their fellow bishops, who hate abortion but resist politicizing the Eucharist, the Kerry campaign mounted no effective response.
 As for white evangelicals, well, the attitude has been -- let the Republicans carry the fundamentalist mantle. After all, aren't all born-again Christians hopelessly conservative, concerned more with undermining the teaching of evolution, standing in the way of stem-cell research and bashing gays than with promoting a just economic order or protecting the rights of women and minorities? 
 In short, the Democratic Party's long string of counterproductive responses to the enduring influence of the religious right has had the cumulative effect of driving away any type of base with the word ''faith'' attached to it, and opening the door to the Republicans' shrewd, if cynical, courting of religiously conservative white Christians. It's been a self-defeating failure, since there are millions of moderate and progressive Christians ready to embrace a reasonable alternative. 
 Now two savvy, genre-bending, unapologetically faith-based new books take that failure as an object lesson. ''The Party Faithful,'' by the respected political journalist and progressive Baptist Amy Sullivan, is a kind of sophisticated self-help manual for Democrats who are looking for a way ''of leveling the praying field.'' Sullivan provides a brisk history of Democratic miscalculations, along with a running commentary. ''Souled Out,'' by the respected political journalist and progressive Catholic E. J. Dionne Jr., is a deeply personal and searchingly intelligent reflection on the noble history, recent travails and likely prospects of American liberalism. Dionne envisions ''a radically new role for religious groups in American politics,'' an integration of personal morality with a championing of the common good that, he says, is ''not only possible but necessary, for the sake of our public life and for religion's sake as well.''
 Both authors blend reportage, analysis of voting patterns, historical precedents, personal religious testimony and unvarnished advocacy. They lament the reduction of religion to narrow ideological concerns and its identification with one political party. Both explore religious alternatives to the right-wing politics of fear and exclusion, and hold up a wide array of individuals for emulation: stereotype-busting evangelicals like Jim Wallis, Rich Cizik and Rick Warren; influential Catholic liberals like the Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, the architect of major documents on just war and nuclear-era peace; and independent-minded politicians like Tim Ryan and Rosa DeLauro, House Democrats who are attempting to break the pro-choice/ pro-life stalemate by pushing programs to reduce the number of abortions. 
 Strikingly, both authors announce the demise of the religious right and proclaim the advent of a new era of religious engagement in the direction of what might be called faith-friendly liberalism. ''American politics is at a turning point,'' Dionne asserts. ''Evangelical Christians are an increasingly diverse group,'' broadening their political agenda to include environmental issues and a commitment to international human and religious rights, as well as to economic policies that address poverty. Mainline Protestants and Roman Catholics are poised to renew their ''rich history of social concern,'' Dionne says, and he concludes, ''There is very good reason to believe that in the coming years, America's religious communities will no longer be seen as the natural allies of political conservatism.''
 This would indeed be a marked departure from the recent past, when, in Sullivan's words, ''a showdown between the religious left and religious right was like a tricycle going up against a Mack truck.'' The disparity reflected a three-decade head start by religious conservatives flush with cash, coupled with the Republicans' ''incredibly sophisticated methods of reaching religious voters.'' Meanwhile, according to several veteran Democratic operatives cited by Sullivan, ''the only method the party had for identifying Catholics was to guess based on surnames.''
 Are Sullivan and Dionne to be believed, or is this the triumph of wishful thinking over political reality? Sullivan admits to setting out to prove her Dem-dissing pastor wrong, and Dionne, burdened by what he poignantly describes as ''the agony of liberal Catholicism,'' could be forgiven for mistaking the creativity of a few Catholic politicians and the enthusiasms of younger Catholics as benevolent signs of more liberal times to come. 
 In their defense, however, consider the following points of light. Since at least 1993, when she gave her (unfairly derided) ''politics of meaning'' speech, Hillary Clinton has spoken thoughtfully and frequently about the relationship between her faith and her political convictions. More recently, John Edwards has acknowledged the strength he drew from his Southern Baptist heritage when his son died, and he also cites the religious source of his work on behalf of the underprivileged. And in his balanced and straightforward presentation on religion and politics, delivered to the Call to Renewal convention in June 2006, Barack Obama stated flatly that ''secularists are wrong when they ask believers to leave their religion at the door before entering into the public square.Frederick Douglass, Abraham Lincoln, William Jennings Bryan, Dorothy Day, Martin Luther King -- indeed, the majority of great reformers in American history -- were not only motivated by faith, but repeatedly used religious language to argue for their cause.''
 Whenever Democrats used to talk about religion, Sullivan comments, journalists jumped into the '' 'gotcha' mode to prove that the rhetoric is just a ploy to pander to voters.'' Clearly, however, none of the three leading Democratic candidates for president have been intimidated by the still powerful reputation of their party as fundamentally irreligious. Rather, they seem committed to reversing that reputation. If this new Democratic outlook succeeds in sparking the moral imagination of our religion-drenched nation, Dionne and Sullivan will be proven prophetic: a powerful political change is gonna come.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ABORTION (88%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); WOMEN (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%)

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%); BOB CASEY (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Souled Out (Book)>; The Party Faithful (Book)>; Souled Out (Book)>; The Party Faithful (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



266 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE CHATTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 189 words

 BODY:
''When the water is up to your neck, it's wrong to let your head sag.'' 
 Josef Ackermann, chief of Deutsche Bank, after he said the company would stick to its pretax profit goal of 8.4 billion euros in 2008 despite economic uncertainty.
 The company avoided big subprime losses.
 ''What we say now is, 'If we can't afford it, we can't buy it.' ''
 Elena Gamble of Elk City, Okla. She and her husband, who have $10,000 in highinterest debt, are among consumers who have drastically cut back on spending.
 ''Skinny, skinny, skinny.''
 Dave Fothergill, a director of the agency Red Model Management, on the fashion industry's preference for male models who look chickenchested, hollow-cheeked and undernourished.
 ''We all needed quality dental care, fast.''
 Jennifer Gates, who lives in California and has gone with family members on ''dental vacations'' to Mexico, where she says they save tens of thousands of dollars on dental work.
 ''I think some papers aren't going to make it.''
 Brian P. Tierney, publisher of The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Philadelphia Daily News, on the grim financial situation of the newspaper industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: JOSEF ACKERMANN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



267 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; POLITICS ISSUE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2123 words

HEADLINE: Describing the Elephant

BYLINE: Reviews by MICHAEL LIND. 
Michael Lind, the Whitehead Senior Fellow at the New America Foundation, is the author of ''The American Way of Strategy.''

 BODY:
HEROIC CONSERVATISM 
 Why Republicans Need to Embrace America's Ideals (And Why They Deserve to Fail if They Don't). 
 By Michael J. Gerson. 
 302 pp. HarperOne/ HarperCollins Publishers. $26.95. 
 SURRENDER IS NOT AN OPTION 
 Defending America at the United Nations and Abroad. 
 By John Bolton. 
 Illustrated. 486 pp. Threshold Editions/Simon & Schuster. $27. 
 As George W. Bush enters his final year as president, the struggle to succeed him has revealed deep disagreements about the definition of post-Bush conservatism. Two new books by former members of the Bush administration contribute to this debate. 
 In ''Heroic Conservatism,'' Michael Gerson, a former Bush speechwriter now at the Council on Foreign Relations, has written both a memoir and a manifesto, though he adds little to what is already known about Bush. According to Gerson, ''Christian faith lies close to the surface of Bush's identity and has genuinely influenced his political thinking.'' He is persuasive when he treats Bush's rhetoric as ''the language of the Bible-study group'' but not when he claims that the president ''is convinced that societies are capable of hopeful change because individuals are capable of hopeful change, based on his own experience.'' 
 All too often Gerson goes beyond minor airbrushing to major whitewashing. Discussing the Iraq war, he argues that because the United States does not deliberately take aim at civilians, its conduct is moral by the standards of Christian just-war theory. He mentions Abu Ghraib only once, and there is no discussion of the administration's authorization of waterboarding and other methods of torture, its attempted unilateral redefinition of the Geneva Conventions or its claim, rejected by the Supreme Court, that the president can declare any American citizen an ''enemy combatant'' and hold him without charges until he dies of old age. 
 Gerson writes of his victory in persuading Bush to ''encourage more training for defense lawyers in death-penalty cases'' without mentioning that Bush presided over 152 executions as governor of Texas, more than any other governor in modern history, issuing only one commutation (in a case of clear innocence) and no pardons. Gerson says ''it is impossible to imagine Bush attacking 'welfare queens,' as Reagan did. Governor Bush uniformly talked about the poor, addicts and even illegal immigrants in sympathetic ways.'' The journalist Tucker Carlson's chilling description of then-Governor Bush's mocking imitation of one death row inmate, Karla Faye Tucker, whom Bush refused to pardon despite the pleas of, among others, the Pope and the Revs. Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson, is hard to square with Gerson's portrait of a compassionate conservative.
 More interesting than his panegyric to his former employer is Gerson's polemic in favor of what he calls ''heroic conservatism.'' While he accuses liberals of moral relativism, Gerson's harshest criticisms are directed at the two major elements of the Republican conservative coalition, small-government libertarians and the religious right. Of libertarians, he writes: ''Republicans who feel that the ideology of Barry Goldwater -- the ideology of minimal government -- has been assaulted'' by the Bush administration ''are correct.'' He goes on to say, ''If Republicans run in future elections with a simplistic antigovernment message, ignoring the poor, the addicted and children at risk, they will lose, and they will deserve to lose.'' 
 And a partisan of the left could hardly be more hostile to fundamentalists: ''The religious right has also contributed to dangerous social divisions in our country. ... It emphasized issues of sexual morality while ignoring equally urgent matters of economic and racial justice.'' Witnessing Gerson's solitary attempt to purge the Republican Party of its most powerful factions, one thinks of Shakespeare's Coriolanus, who tells the Roman mob that has come to banish him: ''I banish you!''
 Gerson calls for a Republican Party that is ready to replace the libertarian-social conservative coalition. His heroic conservatism would be a synthesis of faith-based programs for the poor at home and abroad, inspired by Catholic social thought (which attracts Gerson, an evangelical Protestant), and what Gerson thinks of as a Wilsonian foreign policy. He defends the Iraq war by declaring that the Bush administration's claimed goal of using the invasion to kick-start democratization throughout the Middle East is in the tradition of Woodrow Wilson. But his argument depends on severing Wilson's support for democracy from collective security and international law and attaching it to the doctrine of preventive wars of regime change. 
 ''Like Wilson,'' Gerson writes, ''Bush believes that history has a moral direction. ...Unlike Wilson, Bush does not believe this vision is fulfilled in the decline or replacement of the nation-state by international institutions. It is fulfilled by the growth in strength and number of democratic societies.'' 
 But Wilson did not believe in the decline of the nation-state; on the contrary, he wanted to multiply independent nation-states by means of national self-determination and sought the voluntary cooperation of all sovereign states, even nonaggressive autocracies. The idea that the way to world peace is through unprovoked wars is alien to the thought and practice of Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman and John Kennedy, all of whom Gerson claims as inspirations for George W. Bush.
 Where social issues are concerned, Gerson's heroic conservatism is actually closer to the Social Gospel Protestant tradition and its equivalents on the Catholic left than to Republican orthodoxies or to the ''national greatness'' declarations of the neoconservatives. At one point he speaks of ''the tradition of abolitionists and religious reformers, of Catholic conscience and natural rights, of Lincoln and the Declaration.'' As one might expect, a number of conservative reviewers have been hostile to such a point of view, and with them it is reasonable to ask why Gerson considers himself a conservative at all, inasmuch as his heroes are mostly progressives, liberals and radicals. A devout Christian educated at Wheaton College, Gerson tells us that Jimmy Carter's campaign autobiography was a life-changing read for him, and subsequently he was drawn to politicians and activists like Carter, who seemed to combine religiosity with reformism: the repentant Watergate felon Chuck Colson, founder of Prison Fellowship; the anti-abortion Democratic governor of Pennsylvania Bob Casey; and the ''bleeding-heart conservative'' Jack Kemp. Gerson went to work as a speechwriter because candidate George Bush's claim that he would remake the Republican Party in the name of ''compassionate conservatism'' was ''an exhilarating prospect for me.''
 Gerson worries, however, that the Iraq war has ''directly undermined the president's attempt to redefine the ideology of the Republican Party.'' If the war had gone well, ''the president could have been a colossus in American politics'' and ''a transformative figure, a Republican Roosevelt.'' But the transformative presidents represented powerful strains in their parties. Even if the war had been a success, what constituency would have helped Bush purge his party of the libertarians and narrow-minded Protestant fundamentalists Gerson detests, in favor of militant Wilsonianism and Catholic-inspired welfarism? Nor is it clear that Bush shares Gerson's understanding of heroic conservatism. 
 Unlike Gerson, a latecomer to the Republican right who does not like what he found, John Bolton is a proud, lifelong member of the Goldwater-Reagan conservative movement, which he has followed in its march through the institutions, as an aide to Reagan's attorney general Edwin Meese, a State Department official in the administration of the first President Bush, and undersecretary of state for arms control and international security in the second Bush administration. When his appointment as ambasssador to the United Nations in 2005 sparked a Senate confirmation fight, Bolton became a lightning rod for administration critics. In many ways, however, he simply followed in the footsteps of Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Jeane Kirkpatrick, who also appalled diplomats but pleased the public by standing up for American interests and values at the United Nations. 
 In ''Surrender Is Not an Option,'' Bolton describes his experience as United Nations envoy. He explains that he is not opposed to international institutions on principle. But he argues that the United States should engage in forum-shopping among them in order to get the result it wants: ''Unilateral American action (Grenada, Panama), bilateral alliances (U.S.-Japan), multilateral defense alliances (NATO), ad hoc military coalitions (Persian Gulf Wars One and Two), regional organizations (O.A.S.) and enforcement coalitions of the willing (Proliferation Security Initiative) are all legitimate and potentially effective alternatives.'' 
 Bolton is persuasive when he argues that other nations take this instrumental view of international organizations. His discussion of opposition to the enlargement of the United Nations Security Council shows a keen eye: ''China, which wasn't any more enthusiastic about India than it was about Japan, could hide behind Pakistan; Britain and France, which saw their very seats in danger of eventually being lost to one permanent seat for the E.U., could hide behind Italy, which was determined Germany would not get on the council.'' He is also right to note the danger that many of the states currently renouncing nuclear weapons under the Nonproliferation Treaty may go on to acquire them ''as the number of nuclear aspirants grows, since almost all states have more than one enemy.'' 
 But Bolton undercuts his own credibility by incendiary rhetoric aimed at a conservative audience. Those who believe in a stronger role for international institutions are ''the High Minded elite who worship at the altar of the Secular Pope'' -- like the State Department, which is full of obstructionist careerists allied with ''the High Minded in academia.'' Throughout his book he refers to European diplomats as ''EUroids.'' What is more, '' 'moral equivalency,' a disease of the sophisticated, is especially prevalent among EUroid diplomats and is highly contagious, frequently spreading to State's permanent bureaucracy.'' While Moynihan and Kirkpatrick confronted a genuine anti-American coalition of the Soviet bloc and a number of third world countries, Bolton rails against a supposed coalition of ''the Europeans'' with ''the third world countries, sometimes referred to as 'the Group of 77' (G-77), although there were actually about 130 of them (this being the U.N., who was counting?).'' 
 If Bolton is to be believed, the United States is in dire straits indeed, facing a global EUroid-third-world coalition that is aided and abetted by decadent American liberals, professors, career civil servants, the major news media -- and even elements of the Bush administration. He tells us that he thought of resigning on May 8, 2006, when Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice ''sidelined our Security Council drive for sanctions against Iran.'' Not since Secretary of State Colin Powell's ''surrender on Iran at the September 2004 foreign minister's dinner in New York had I been so depressed.'' 
 Bolton says that when he decided to leave at the end of his recess appointment, because ''I didn't like the direction of our policy on too many issues, particularly Iran, North Korea and Arab-Israeli issues,'' he consulted Vice President Cheney before sending a letter to President Bush. As a defender of the Iraq war, Bolton worries that wars of regime change have been discredited: ''Iraq's continuing civil war has led many in the United States and abroad to conclude that the decision to overthrow Saddam was incorrect, with the obvious implication that toppling other rogue regimes, such as those in Iran or North Korea, would also be a mistake.'' 
 The current ascendancy of populism in the Republican Party and national politics as a whole spells trouble for Bolton's Goldwater-Reagan conservatism, as well as for Gerson's heroic conservatism. The populist right shares Bolton's suspicions of international institutions, but not his enthusiasm for wars of regime change. And populists favor big government programs that help the economically distressed working and middle classes, whom Gerson completely ignores in his focus on race rather than class. The moment for Bolton's movement conservatism may have passed. The moment for Gerson's heroic conservatism never arrived.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Bolton at the United Nations, 2006.
 Michael Gerson, left, with President Bush and Karen Hughes before the 2002 State of the Union address. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC DRAPER/THE WHITE HOUSE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS (ABOVE) AND MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (86%); WRITERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); RELIGION (73%); LAWYERS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); IMMIGRATION (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (68%); TORTURE (68%); CAPITAL CRIMES (67%); HISTORY (66%); PARDONS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

TITLE: Heroic Conservatism (Book)>; Surrender Is Not an Option (Book)>; Heroic Conservatism (Book)>; Surrender Is Not an Option (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



268 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2183 words

HEADLINE: To Have and Give Not

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 FOR years Eli Broad, the billionaire philanthropist whose influence seems to waft into so many corners of this city's cultural scene, has promised that Los Angeles will take its place among the world's great arts capitals.
 So the art world was taken aback last month when, on the eve of the opening of the Broad Contemporary Art Museum, a $56 million addition to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art for which he chose the architect and paid the bill, Mr. Broad abruptly seemed to undermine his own cause. 
 Rather than pledge to donate his extensive collection of contemporary art to the new institution -- a move that some viewed as inevitable, given that his name was to be on the door -- Mr. Broad said he had decided instead to keep it in his private foundation. Far better, he argued, to lend the 2,000-odd works to museums around the world than to risk their being largely relegated to storage in Los Angeles. 
 If the decision has not cast a pall over what has been billed as the museum's breakout moment, it has certainly raised questions about its ability to execute an ambitious three-stage expansion plan that is being promoted by its director as a wholesale transformation of the institution. Suddenly the sense that Los Angeles was poised to rival New York and London as the center of contemporary art has given way to the impression that even its most prominent booster might not be fully behind the city and its largest cultural institution. 
 Mr. Broad says nothing could be further from the truth. 
 ''I have total confidence in Lacma,'' he said in an interview last month at his office in West Los Angeles. But he added firmly, ''We did not build the collection and are not continuing to build it to have 80 percent of it in storage,'' something that often happens with large collections once they are passed along to a single museum. ''I've seen too much of that happen.''
 With 58,000 square feet of new exhibition space, a total roughly twice the size of the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Broad Contemporary Art Museum is the centerpiece of an extensive overhaul of the Los Angeles museum's campus and collections that is expected to continue for much of the next decade. Given the scale of its ambitions, the museum clearly has a lot to lose from any perception that it does not fully control its own future. 
 ''Anything that makes Lacma more of a centerpiece of L.A.'s cultural life is a great thing, and this is a real milestone in its development as an encyclopedic museum,'' said Elizabeth H. Ondaatje, a former RAND Corporation researcher and an author of its 2007 report ''A Vision for the Arts in Los Angeles.'' ''The challenge now is that it needs to get up to the next level.''
 The quandary faced by the museum in both celebrating and exhibiting its independence from a prominent donor is evident when its charismatic director, Michael Govan, who took over in 2006, dismisses the importance of Mr. Broad's decision while simultaneously admitting that he hopes he will relent to some degree.
 ''He has 2,000 works, so there's plenty to go around,'' Mr. Govan said recently. Both he and Mr. Broad (whose name rhymes with road) say the museum still has first choice of the most desirable pieces in Mr. Broad's art trove: works by luminaries like Jeff Koons, Cindy Sherman, Roy Lichtenstein and Robert Rauschenberg. 
 And on a recent tour of the new building, Mr. Govan also revealed his continued hope that once Mr. Broad and his wife, Edythe, see the public's reaction to the completed addition, they will turn their current loans to the new building into permanent gifts. 
 ''This is the first step, I think,'' he said.
 Mr. Govan acknowledges that the museum's identity as encyclopedic has shifted in recent years, particularly since Mr. Broad's largess put contemporary art at the center of its geography. While it is most often described as a comprehensive museum in the vein of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, it enjoys depth in certain areas -- Korean art, for example -- yet has limited resources in others. 
 ''It was never contemplated that contemporary art would be such a strong center of the museum,'' Mr. Govan said. ''It has added immeasurably to the identity of the institution as well as to its collection.'' 
 That devotion to contemporary art is destined only to grow under Mr. Govan. The museum's plans for a second and third phase of its transformation call for contemporary outdoor sculptures to dominate the grounds, with a proposed sculpture of a locomotive by Mr. Koons suspended from a crane high above the entrance.
 Mr. Govan, who ran the Dia Art Foundation in New York for 12 years before landing in Los Angeles, is in many respects the perfect person to lead the museum's transformation. At Dia he showed considerable imagination in expanding the audience for contemporary art by transforming an abandoned biscuit factory into a sprawling light-drenched space suitable for large-scale works.
 But to be lured, he required some assurances about the intentions of his most prominent patron. Mr. Govan said he had read news reports that the previous director, Andrea Rich, resigned in part because of disputes with Mr. Broad, including one over hiring a curator for the new Broad contemporary art center. At the time both Mr. Broad and Ms. Rich said publicly that it was simply time for her to move on.
 Mr. Govan said he had met with Mr. Broad and made clear that he expected to have control and direction over the Broad Museum, which would function as just another division. ''His answer was, simply, 'Yes,' '' he said.
 Today Mr. Govan even plays down the clout that Mr. Broad wields at the museum. 
 ''He has no more control than the other 45 people sitting around the table at the board meeting,'' Mr. Govan said. ''I don't know how many people in New York think Eli Broad is the chair, or he's the only donor.'' On the contrary, he said, Mr. Broad has never been chairman and ''he's not even the largest donor to the institution in its history,'' an honor that goes to the Ahmanson Foundation, which has given some $100 million, much of it for acquiring European paintings.
 Since Mr. Broad announced his big gift in 2003, ''you've seen more investment by other people: more board members, more annual giving, more capital giving,'' Mr. Govan added. ''So the cliche is kind of backwards, that he's got his hands on and he's in charge and doing this. 
 ''In fact, it's just the opposite. After he made his investment, it allowed the institution to build strength, and he's been letting the institution do its work.''
 Yet few would dispute that Mr. Broad has been an outsize presence on the board for years, especially since 2001, when the museum embarked in earnest on reimagining its 20-acre campus.
 Like Los Angeles itself, formed out of the haphazard conjoining of dozens of small cities and independent communities, the museum grew in disjointed fashion. Established as an independent entity in 1961, it opened a three-building Lincoln Center-like campus in 1965, designed by the Los Angeles architect William Pereira on six acres along Wilshire Boulevard.
 Two more buildings were added in the 1980s, including a pavilion for Japanese art and a center for modern and contemporary art, which increased gallery space by one-third. In 1994 the museum bought the May Company building, an Art Deco landmark on the corner of Fairfax and Wilshire, expanding the campus westward and roughly doubling its size.
 But the menagerie of buildings created confusion for visitors. As part of the initial plan to reorganize, the museum held an architecture competition for a new contemporary-art building and planned to separate each geographic or epochal subset of its collections.
 When the designs came in, it was Mr. Broad who championed the most radical option: tearing down most of the six-building complex and replacing it with a vast new structure by Rem Koolhaas, the cerebral Dutch architect.
 So persuasive was Mr. Koolhaas, supported by Mr. Broad, that only after announcing their plans did the trustees seemed to grasp that this tabula rasa approach would force the entire complex to shut down for three years and require all the money to be raised upfront, rather than in stages.
 After county residents voted down a tax increase to pay for the museum expansion, Mr. Broad took matters into his own hands in 2003, pledging $50 million for one new building for contemporary art and personally lobbying the Italian architect Renzo Piano to design it. 
 ''I went to see Renzo, and I said 'You've got to do this building,' '' he recalled. 
 In his characteristic dark suit and tie, his white hair perfectly trimmed and parted, Mr. Broad exudes the confidence and elan that one can imagine swaying even a seasoned star architect. He said he had offered Mr. Piano three simple reasons to take up his invitation. ''One, we have the money. Two, there's a program,'' or a clear architectural goal. ''And three, you only have to deal with the director and me.''
 Mr. Piano one-upped Mr. Broad, saying he would design the building only if he could execute a master plan for the entire campus. The museum assented.
 Phase 1 of that plan opens to members this week and to the general public on Feb. 16, with a three-day ''free community weekend'' running through Presidents' Day. 
 In addition to the Broad Contemporary Art Museum, the first phase includes an airy solar-powered entrance pavilion, financed with a $25 million donation from -- and somewhat controversially named for -- the oil company BP; a central concourse connecting the campus's westernmost structure with the 1965 buildings to the east; and a new grand staircase in the atrium of the Ahmanson Building.
 Mr. Govan has also made his imprint on the design. After arriving in April 2006, he added glass to the Broad building and changed the floor color. He commissioned an installation of vintage street lamps by the artist Chris Burden in front of the entrance pavilion, and a sort of palm tree retrospective by the artist Robert Irwin. 
 Now, when people approach the museum, ''they're going to see one, two, three, four artworks before they even think of buying a ticket,'' Mr. Govan said. ''That's a completely different dynamic of entry.''
 In another sign that Mr. Govan is holding his own, a separate five-member board created for the Broad Museum has essentially been disbanded. Mr. Broad said that board was intended only to oversee a $10 million gift for acquisitions, which has now been spent, mainly on a Richard Serra sculpture that takes up half of the ground floor of the new building.
 Mr. Govan insists that Mr. Broad has no influence over day-to-day decisions regarding the Broad museum. ''A lot of the art installation is a surprise to him,'' he said. ''He had to sign off on the loans so he sort of knows what the selection, plus or minus, is, but not specifically.'' 
 But Mr. Broad also noted that he and Mr. Govan have talked almost daily, and sometimes several times a day, during the final phase of construction and preparations for the opening. Joanne Heyler, the chief curator for the Broad Art Foundation, has been at the museum daily to oversee the installation of Mr. Broad's art.
 Phase 2 will bring more changes: a new exhibition pavilion, a 420-ton rock sculpture and the Koons train -- all told, an investment of some $200 million. Phase 3 will involve the more complete renovation of the existing buildings on the eastern part of the campus.
 The long-term plan is also to shore up the financial strength of the museum, whose endowment of $170 million is dwarfed by institutions like the Museum of Modern Art ($650 million last year). 
 Visitors will shoulder some of that burden. The daily admission fee will rise to $12 from $10, still a far cry from the $20 the Modern has charged since its expansion, and the cost of self-parking to $7 from $5. Mr. Broad said the museum hoped to boost annual attendance from its current level of 660,000 to more than one million. 
 Since taking over, Mr. Govan has also added several new directors, strengthening the museum's ties with Hollywood, with the addition of players like Michael Lynton, the chief executive of Sony Pictures Entertainment. 
 With a new chairman, Andrew Gordon, who is in charge of West Coast operations for Goldman Sachs, the museum hopes to make inroads into wealthy segments of Los Angeles that have historically been stingy in contributing to art institutions.
 To hear Mr. Broad tell it, the museum is now on a much sounder footing for the future, his own decision regarding his collection notwithstanding. 
 ''I feel that some burden is off my shoulders,'' he said. ''I'm not getting any younger. And look, I don't want to be a lone ranger in all of this.
 ''I'd like to make the largest gift, and I liked to help raise a lot of money. But now that we've got other, younger trustees of some prominence and wealth, I'm delighted that they're very engaged. And we've got a great leader in Michael, so it all feels pretty good to me.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A map with an article on Feb. 10 about an expansion of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art included an outdated name for one of the buildings on the museum's campus. The building next to the Bing Center is the Art of the Americas Building, not the Modern and Contemporary Art Building. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An aerial view of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. The museum will unveil the first phase in an extensive transformation when the Broad Contemporary Art Museum opens next Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR1)
Rem Koolhaas's design for an entirely new Los Angeles County Museum of Art complex was championed by Eli Broad but was ultimately abandoned. (PHOTORAPH BY THE OFFICE FOR METROPOLITAN ARCHITECTURE)
Michael Govan, above right, became director of the museum in 2006. Eli Broad financed its newest addition, the Broad Contemporary Art Museum, but will not donate his collection. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARISSA ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E32) MAP: ONE DOWN, TWO TO GO IN LOS ANGELES: The first phase of a three-part makeover of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art includes a new building for contemporary art named for the philanthropist Eli Broad, a central grand entrance, a refurbished atrium for the Ahmanson Building, a covered concourse linking east and west and underground parking. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ART COLLECTING (77%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



269 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; MOTORING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Citing 15-Year Delay, Suit Seeks Action on Rebuilt Wrecks

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

 BODY:
WHEN President Bush signed a bill that would keep millions of vehicles seriously damaged in crashes -- and potentially dangerous -- from being repaired and sold to unsuspecting buyers, consumer advocates were thrilled.
 But it was George H. W. Bush, the 41st president, who signed the bill into law in 1992. 
 And last week, with no system in place to track those vehicles and enforce the law more than 15 years later, consumer groups responded with a blend of exasperation and amazement -- and a lawsuit.
 ''It is outrageous,'' said Bernard E. Brown, a lawyer in Fairway, Kan., who specializes in automotive cases. ''It is kind of wild. It is certainly a failure of government.'' 
 The 1992 law required that a national database of stolen or badly wrecked vehicles be established. Insurance companies that wrote off cars as total losses and junkyards that received those wrecks were required to provide the vehicle's identification numbers to the government. 
 Typically, if a vehicle sustains so much damage that it is not economical to repair -- generally at least 75 percent of the vehicle's value -- insurance companies classify it as salvage or junk. The idea behind the 1992 law was to make it possible for used-car shoppers to find out if a vehicle had been declared a total loss by checking the national database. 
 It has not worked out that way for consumers.
 ''They have no idea they may be driving a deathtrap'' said Deepak Gupta, a lawyer for Public Citizen, an advocacy group that joined in suing the government to finally establish the database. 
 Joseph Fox is one consumer who might have benefited from such a database. Mr. Fox, a security guard from Philadelphia, bought a 2000 Jeep Cherokee late in 2000 for about $20,000. It was an exciting purchase for him -- his first new car.
 ''You feel like a human being when you can buy something brand new,'' Mr. Fox said.
 Mr. Fox didn't know the Jeep had been stolen in New Jersey and damaged so badly that the insurance company decided it was a total loss; that information did not appear on the title. After other repairs led to the discovery of the vehicle's history, Mr. Fox sued the dealership. The case was settled out of court; a condition of the settlement was that the Jeep would be crushed, said Cary L. Flitter, his lawyer.
 Even consumer advocates who say they have low expectations when it comes to government action are amazed by the delay in this law's implementation.
 The failure undermines other safety efforts, said Rosemary Shahan, the president of Consumers for Auto Reliability and Safety, based in Sacramento. Drivers looking for a safe used vehicle can diligently check the results of crash tests that have been performed by the government and by independent groups, she said, but they cannot be sure the vehicle they are buying was not rebuilt from a wreck. 
 Saying the government's failure has put consumers ''at an unacceptably high risk'' of economic loss and physical injury, three consumer groups filed suit last Wednesday against Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California in San Francisco. In addition to Ms. Shahan's group and Public Citizen, Consumer Action of San Francisco joined the suit.
 ''The government should obey the law just as much as anybody else,'' Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, said. 
 Ms. Claybrook also raised the issue of consumer losses resulting from fraud and deception in the sale of junk and salvage cars. A 2001 study done for the Justice Department concluded that the mandated tracking system and database could prevent fraud losses of $4 billion to $11.3 billion annually. 
 The suit asks the court to declare the Justice Department's failure to implement the program unlawful and set a deadline for it to start operating.
 Consumer advocates say that if the law is implemented it would disrupt a chain of events in which consumers are the big losers. Typically that chain starts with a vehicle so badly damaged that the insurance company decides it is not worth repairing. The junk vehicle is then sold at an auction. An unscrupulous buyer can rebuild it with an emphasis on cosmetic improvements while ignoring safety and reliability.
 Implementing the law was initially the responsibility of the Department of Transportation. Dismayed by a lack of progress, Congress turned it over to the Justice Department in 1996. 
 A top official there, James H. Burch II, denied that there has been any federal footdragging over the last decade.
 ''This isn't something that has been ignored since 1997,'' Mr. Burch, deputy director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance, said. ''Things have been done.'' 
 William L. Brauch, a special assistant attorney general in Iowa and director of the consumer protection division, is among several consumer advocates who say they suspect the delay is a result of pressure from groups including the insurance industry. 
 Money is the reason. Insurance companies can make more money selling salvage vehicles if the buyers know they can rebuild them and sell them at a profit because their crash history can be hidden, said Ms. Shahan.
 ''You know when you see the bids on these things they are not dismantling them,'' she said.
 David F. Snyder, vice president and assistant general counsel for the American Insurance Association, responded that it made no sense for the insurance industry to put dangerous vehicles on the road. That would cause serious injuries and huge economic losses, he said.
 Mr. Snyder declined to say whether the insurance industry had lobbied against implementation of the 1992 law, finally describing the question as ''irrelevant.'' He said the real problem centered on getting all the states to adopt the same standards in marking titles.
 Mr. Burch of the Justice Department said he was not aware of the insurance industry's lobbying against the law. ''From what I have seen, insurance is supportive,'' he said. 
 Part of the 1992 law has been implemented. Called the National Motor Vehicle Title Information System, it is an effort at the national network required by the law. It was developed by the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators. Not all states participate, though they are required to. 
 Mr. Brown, the Kansas lawyer, said a huge failure of the system was that it still did not get information from every junkyard and insurance company. 
 Consumer advocates -- including the groups filing the suit in San Francisco -- also say there is no excuse for the Justice Department not to have produced the regulations detailing how and when the insurance and salvage companies are to provide information. ''There was an opinion for some time'' that the law was so clear that those regulations were not needed, Mr. Burch said. 
 But Mr. Gupta, the lawyer for Public Citizen, said the law clearly stated that the Justice Department had to establish the regulations. ''The government doesn't have any choice,'' he said. ''It has to do what Congress told it to do.'' 
 Mr. Burch now says he hopes those regulations will be available for public comment before the end of June. Then the comments will have to be reviewed by federal officials. 
 Without regulations requiring all insurance companies to report salvage vehicles, it is impossible to know how many rebuilt wrecks return to the road, Mr. Brown said.
 Experian Automotive, an Illinois company that sells information gathered from state motor vehicle departments, said its records showed that there were about seven million vehicles on the road that at one time were damaged so badly that the titles were marked as ''junked, scrapped, unrebuildable, salvage or rebuilt.'' 
 A 2001 study done for the Justice Department said about 2.5 million vehicles were totaled each year and it estimated that about 1.5 million were rebuilt and returned to the road.
 Advocates like Ms. Shahan say the State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company, which has at least twice tangled with state officials over failing to mark salvage titles, demonstrates why the law must be fully implemented.
 In January 2005 State Farm agreed to pay $40 million to resolve complaints from an alliance of 49 attorneys general about not marking the titles of about 30,000 salvage vehicles. The insurer did not admit any wrongdoing. The State Farm case would probably not have occurred had the 1992 law been fully implemented, Mr. Brauch said. 
 Mr. Fox, the buyer of the wrecked-and-repaired Jeep, said he wished the government had protected him from the hassle -- and from being duped.
 ''I feel bad,'' he said. ''They are not doing their job. If you pass a law, pass it so people are treated right.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VICTIMS: Before getting a Ford, Joseph and Dotsy Fox bought a Jeep without knowing it had been stolen and wrecked. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MERGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); LITIGATION (75%); INSURANCE (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



270 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; POLITICS ISSUE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Bush

BYLINE: By ALAN EHRENHALT. 
Alan Ehrenhalt is executive editor of Governing Magazine and author of ''The United States of Ambition'' and ''The Lost City.''

 BODY:
COMEBACK 
 Conservatism That Can Win Again. 
 By David Frum. 
 213 pp. Doubleday. $24.95. 
 An author who has published a book extolling George W. Bush as a leader of heroic proportions faces a challenge in deciding what to write next. Given the current state of popular opinion, he might understandably wish to choose a different subject altogether. Or he might simply dig in and argue that Bush will one day be recognized as a great statesman unappreciated in his time. Or, more interestingly, he might decide to pull back from his earlier posture of admiration, take a serious look at what has gone wrong over the past seven years of Republican stewardship, and offer suggestions for how the party and the American conservative movement in general might attempt to recover. 
 David Frum, to his credit, has chosen Option 3. Four years after portraying the president's leadership as ''nothing short of superb'' in ''The Right Man,'' Frum, a former Bush speechwriter, has written ''Comeback,'' in which he concedes he didn't get his man entirely right the first time. The new book is by no means an anti-Bush confessional; the author is almost painfully reluctant to make a full break, to the point where he can be maddeningly inconsistent. ''What judgment will future generations render upon George W. Bush?'' Frum asks in the first chapter. ''I hope and believe it will be a positive one.'' Three pages later, he is lamenting that the president has ''led his party to the brink of disaster.''
 Puzzles of that sort appear often in ''Comeback,'' leaving the impression that Frum has not entirely made up his mind what to think of the man he once served. This is not necessarily a fatal flaw, because the book is not primarily about Bush. It is a treatise on how the Republican Party might escape from the trap in which it appears to be stuck. 
 Even on this larger subject, however, the reader is forced to work through a fair number of incongruities. Frum's fundamental thesis is that Republicans must move beyond the policies and ideology not only of the Bush years but of the past three decades, even if this means repudiating some of the political axioms that brought it to power under Ronald Reagan in 1980. But it is never quite clear just how much renovation Frum is willing to undertake. Loudly denouncing government, as Reagan did, will not be enough in the 21st century, he proclaims. ''There are things only government can do,'' he argues, ''and if we conservatives wish to be entrusted with the management of the government, we must prove that we care enough about government to manage it well.'' 
 This is interesting, and coming from as deeply rooted a conservative as David Frum, even tantalizing. But he has scarcely finished announcing his breakthrough before he lapses back into vintage Reaganism, urging his readers to ''get mad again about the perversities and inefficiencies inflicted by heavy-handed government -- and to take up the cause of those victimized and exploited by government-mandated waste.'' Frum might have been wise to consider that a new brand of conservatism will need to jettison not only the attitudes of the 1980s but the rhetorical posturing that continues to accompany them.
 There are similar problems of inconsistency -- or at least paradox -- when Frum gets into the specifics of what a new conservative Republicanism might offer. Simple promises to cut taxes and reduce regulation, he writes, ''have become increasingly inadequate.'' Deregulation has largely been accomplished; taxes on the American middle class are as low as they are likely to go anytime soon. While Republicans are in the process of breaking with the anti-tax rigidities of the past, however, Frum would still like them to zero out all existing taxation of capital gains, dividends, inheritance and corporate income of any sort. The times may have changed, but some of the old standbys are simply too juicy to resist.
 To be fair, Frum does produce an example of a new tax he would be willing to impose, a tax on carbon emissions, part of a broader program that he calls ''green conservatism.'' And this is where he comes closest to delivering on his stated intention to offer Republicans something new to campaign on in 2008 and in the years beyond. Frum suggests a levy on carbon of $50 a ton, applied not only to oil but to coal, natural gas and (somewhat more lightly) ethanol. He believes it could generate more than $10 billion a year in revenue, enough to finance much of the tax repeal he seeks. Whether he is right on the economics -- and whether such a move would have political feasibility -- is a matter of debate. But it is an idea that few if any prominent Republican officeholders have thus far been bold enough to advance. 
 On social policy, Frum is similarly iconoclastic. He does not like abortion, but he urges Republicans to accept that Roe v. Wade, modified by the restrictions that states have been allowed to impose, is a compromise acceptable to most of the country, and he argues that concerted efforts to roll it back will only prove politically counterproductive. He doesn't favor gay marriage, but he thinks it is coming and that Republicans ought to stop campaigning against it, and instead come out more positively as the party that believes in a revival of conventional marriage and in ''the family as the greatest social welfare institution we have.''
 When he turns to foreign policy, Frum is less imaginative. Having cheered unrestrainedly for the war in Iraq, he now calls it ''the great wreck and failure of this presidency.'' But he shows little enthusiasm for ending American participation, even if it were done gradually. He reaches back into his 2002 phrase book to declare that Iraq is ''America's war,'' and that ''war once begun is not something from which a nation that wishes to remain great can walk away.'' Why it would be a mistake to extricate the nation from ''wreck and failure'' is a question he does not answer. Instead, Frum rather unconvincingly calls for a strategy of ''second best'' in Iraq, one in which the United States would seek to stave off further defeat by reaching deals with local Sunni and Shiite factions on a piecemeal basis. This may or may not be a workable idea; it is a little difficult to imagine Republican candidates winning widespread popular support for it anytime soon.
 If ''Comeback'' is often creative in its policy suggestions, it is nevertheless tedious in its boilerplate partisanship. Frum writes repeatedly of what ''the next Republican president'' should do; in many instances, he does not seem to care very much what any other president might do. He accepts the reality of climate change, but essentially praises Republicans for waiting too long to act on it, rather than, as he insists the Democrats did, moving too early. He considers the 100-pound weight loss achieved by Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee as comparable to Franklin Roosevelt's struggles against polio. 
 ''Comeback'' is, in short, a book in which serious reappraisal and fresh, challenging ideas are sandwiched between slabs of partisan sloganeering. Republican loyalists should find much of it provocative and worth thinking about. Other readers might benefit from it as well -- but most of them will have a difficult time making it through the bombast.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



271 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: In Hardball Move on Stimulus Plan, Democrats See Political Gain

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As President Bush, the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and Republican leaders in Congress urged the Senate to approve swiftly an economic rescue plan adopted by the House, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, suddenly seemed the odd man out, beating his partisan drum as the rest of Washington joined in a chorus of cooperation. 
 Mr. Reid assured everyone that the Senate would pass a stimulus bill no later than Feb. 15, an ambitious deadline that he personally imposed and, ultimately, met by more than a week. But he also insisted that Senate Democrats would draw up their own economic plan, reflecting their priorities. 
 Even as Mr. Bush and Ms. Pelosi repeatedly prodded the Senate to act fast, Mr. Reid stood firm as the Senate plan's cost swelled to $204 billion with an array of new provisions. 
 In the end, the Senate approved the House plan, and added more than $6 billion in payments for Social Security recipients and disabled veterans, but not before Mr. Reid tried to strong-arm Republicans into voting with him. Mr. Reid used hardball floor tactics and enlisted powerful interest groups like home builders, automakers, mortgage bankers and AARP. 
 But what seemed to be a futile, even gratuitous, display of partisan aggression that Republican leaders derided as a waste of time, Mr. Reid's allies say was a masterful effort. 
 Senate Republican leaders who initially opposed any changes to House plan in the end became advocates for expanding it to include Social Security recipients and veterans. 
 Mr. Reid came within one vote of winning passage of the larger package at a time when the worsening economy would have made it hard for Mr. Bush to argue. 
 And even falling short, supporters say, he advanced Democratic priorities and lifted the party's chances of widening its control of the Senate to a filibuster-proof 60 seats in the November elections. 
 By this calculation, some Republicans will pay a political price for voting to oppose Democratic additions to the stimulus plan, including a $1 billion increase in the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, known as Liheap, which provides subsidies for heating costs. 
 ''Casting votes against unemployment benefits, against provisions that would really revitalize the housing industry, Liheap -- how could you vote against Liheap?'' Mr. Reid said at a news conference. ''But people did. And I think they are going to walk off a cliff. They are following this president, right off the cliff. And what they don't realize is he's already over the cliff, and I think they are making a big mistake, and that's why we are going to pick up a few seats this year.'' 
 Immediately after the vote on Wednesday, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee quickly criticized Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire, who is up for re-election, for voting against the plan. 
 He was the first, but not the only, target. The Democrats also quickly accused the Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, of casting the deciding vote against the Democrats' plan. 
 Other vulnerable Republicans, including Senator Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina and Senator Norm Coleman of Minnesota, voted for the more expansive, and expensive, stimulus package. 
 And some of the provisions in the plan were framed purposely to appeal to lawmakers -- and voters -- in states where there will be vacant Senate seats that Democrats hope to win. 
 For instance, Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, who is retiring, voted for the Democrats' plan in part because it included renewable energy tax credits popular back home but that he had opposed last year when Democrats sought to pay for the credits by increasing taxes on oil and gas companies. 
 And tax incentives for the coal industry, favored by the Democratic senators from West Virginia, also holds appeal in Colorado where Senator Wayne Allard, a Republican, is retiring. 
 The Democrats now control the Senate by 51 to 49, only because two independents, Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut and Bernard Sanders of Vermont, caucus with them. 
 Democrats hope to widen that as close as possible to a filibuster-proof majority of 60 seats, though most say picking up all nine is virtually impossible. 
 More realistic projections have the Democrats gaining perhaps five seats by winning open contests in Virginia, New Mexico and Colorado, and perhaps knocking out two incumbents. 
 Mr. Reid's critics say he can now be accused of playing politics with the nation's economy, and of clinging to partisan differences at a time when voters across the country are clamoring for collegiality and cooperation. 
 And while House Democrats have expressed relief that the stimulus deal was approved and sent to Mr. Bush for his signature, some lawmakers and aides to Ms. Pelosi said they remained shaken by what might have happened if Mr. Reid had been able to muster a 60th vote to advance the larger stimulus plan. 
 Such a victory, they said, would have required a contentious process to reconcile differences with the House bill and gotten Democrats blamed for a lengthy delay, a presidential veto, or both. 
 Mr. Reid's allies, meanwhile, counter that Ms. Pelosi was too conciliatory in her deal with the Bush administration and that a veto was unthinkable given deteriorating economic conditions. 
 Defenders of Mr. Reid also said that observers perplexed by his mercurial behavior did not grasp the complexity of his job or the peculiar culture and arcane rules of the Senate, which give him far less authority than Ms. Pelosi has over the House. 
 In the case of the stimulus bill, which originated in the House, Senate rules and precedents allowed Mr. Reid to propose up to three amendments and still meet a mid-February deadline. Not only did many Senate Democrats want a say over those amendments but also any one senator, Democrat or Republican, could potentially block the legislation. 
 Aides said he sought votes everywhere, at one point asking Mr. Lieberman to push Senator John McCain of Arizona, the Republican presidential candidate, to support the Democrats' stimulus plan as a way of appealing to independent voters. 
 At one point, Mr. Reid thought he had enough Republican votes to win. Aides to Mr. McConnell, the Republican leader, say that this was not so and that Mr. McConnell knew at all times how many Republicans could safely vote with the Democrats. 
 Still, if he controlled the outcome, Democrats are hardly complaining. ''It couldn't have worked out much better from our point of view,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, who is also chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. ''We got a substantially improved package, better than the House bill, and we did it on time. At the same time, as a sort of added bonus, some of the Republicans who didn't vote for it will pay something of a political price.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, with Senators Richard J. Durbin and Charles E. Schumer, discussing the stimulus plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN ETHERIDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); VETERANS (67%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (62%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (61%); AUTOMAKERS (52%); MORTGAGE BANKING (52%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (55%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (92%); NANCY PELOSI (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); JOHN SUNUNU (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



272 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: The Bag of Tricks Is Almost Empty

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 REGARDLESS of who wins the election this fall, the next president and the next Congress will face at least three wrenching decisions that could reshape the nation's tax system for years to come.
 The looming battles are over questions that both parties have been ducking for years. How much should Americans pay in taxes to get what they want? How should the tax burden be distributed between wealthy and poor, businesses and individuals, savers and investors? 
 And the decisions are becoming harder to avoid, because they involve huge tax cuts that will disappear if Congress fails to act.
 The first issue is the future of President Bush's tax cuts, all of which are scheduled to expire at the end of 2010. Those include lower rates for every income level; tax breaks for two-income families with children; an elimination of the estate tax on inherited wealth; and Mr. Bush's signature tax cuts on stock dividends and capital gains. 
 Extending them would reduce revenues by about $3 trillion over the next 10 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Those reductions would coincide with sharply rising costs for Social Security and Medicare as millions of baby boomers enter retirement. 
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, the front-runner for the Republican nomination for president, has flip-flopped on the issue. In 2001 and 2003, he alienated many Republicans by voting against the tax cuts, arguing that they were too heavily tilted toward the rich. But as a presidential candidate, Mr. McCain competed fiercely with his Republican rivals in vowing to not only make the tax cuts permanent but also to cut the corporate tax rate.
 ''I will start by making the Bush tax cuts permanent,'' he told a gathering of conservatives on Thursday, the day Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, dropped out of the race.
 The Democratic contenders, Senator Barack Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, would extend the tax cuts for most people but revoke them for families earning more than $250,000 a year. ''I am not bashful about that,'' Mr. Obama said at the Democratic candidates' debate on Jan. 31. ''What we have right now is a situation where we cut taxes for people who don't need them.''
 The second issue is less ideological, but no less vexing: whether and how to eliminate the alternative minimum tax, or A.M.T., a parallel tax that was originally aimed at millionaires but is poised to engulf tens of millions of middle-class families because it is not adjusted for inflation.
 Republicans and Democrats alike want to abolish it, and have passed one-year ''patches'' year after year. But the one-year cost ballooned to $55 billion last year and will soon hit $100 billion.
 For budgeting purposes, the A.M.T. is set to bring in almost $1 trillion in revenue over the next decade. Despite the tax's widespread unpopularity, President Bush and Congress alike have based their budget plans on the assumption that the torrent of money will indeed materialize. Simply eliminating the tax would blow another big hole in future budgets. 
 Underlying both issues are basic questions about how much Americans should pay in taxes. Historically, federal taxes have averaged about 18.5 percent of the gross domestic product.
 That percentage sank to 16.3 percent of the G.D.P. in 2004, largely because of Mr. Bush's tax cuts, but it edged up to 18.8 percent last year as a result of booming corporate profits and investment income.
 But government spending remains above 20 percent of G.D.P., and the gap between taxes and spending is likely to widen sharply as a result of the economic slowdown this year. 
 President Bush's budget plan for 2009, which includes money for an economic stimulus package, calls for the federal deficit to more than double, to $410 billion, this year.
 The much bigger and more intractable problem, according to budget experts in both parties, is the soaring cost of old-age benefits -- especially for health care -- as the baby-boomer generation hits retirement. 
 Mr. Bush's new budget proposal calls for cutting Medicare and Medicaid spending by $196 billion over the next five years, a move that would be accomplished by deep cuts in payments to doctors and hospitals. Health care providers and senior citizens, two of the most powerful political constituencies in Washington, are certain to fight hard against any such reductions. 
 ''I don't see how you can possibly get by without raising taxes,'' said Leonard Burman, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute. ''You would have to go back to the 1950s, before we had Medicare.''
 The third decision, stemming in part from the difficulty of the first two, is whether to overhaul the entire tax code to make it cleaner, simpler and fairer.
 Idealists in both parties have argued that a top-to-bottom reform would allow Congress to erase thousands of special-interest tax breaks, reduce overall tax rates and still have enough money to eliminate the A.M.T. 
 ''I think there is a growing consensus that the only way to solve these problems is with a fundamental tax reform,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who has been pushing his own overhaul plan the past two years.
 But skeptics point out that almost none of the remaining presidential candidates in either party have campaigned on a platform of tax reform. 
 One exception is Mike Huckabee, the former Republican governor of Arkansas, who has called for replacing the income tax with a national sales tax. 
 Mr. Huckabee's plan has attracted little support from Republican leaders in Congress, and would face big political obstacles. 
 MANY experts also warn that a national sales would have to be at least 30 percent to replace the income and payroll taxes. And they warn that it would shift more of the tax burden onto middle- and low-income workers, who spend bigger shares of their earnings than the wealthy. 
 Neither Republicans nor Democrats have been candid about how they would reconcile their conflicting goals.
 Republicans argue that Congress should not even try to make up the lost revenue from tax cuts, and should focus instead on cutting spending. But a Republican-led Congress presided over big increases in government spending from 2001 to 2006, including a major expansion of Medicare in 2003 to provide prescription-drug benefits. 
 Democrats have been inconsistent themselves. In Congress, they have embraced ''pay as you go'' rules, which require lawmakers to pay for the cost of tax cuts with either tax increases or spending cuts, but the Democratic presidential candidates have yet to explain how they would simultaneously pay for a permanent fix to the A.M.T., an extension of Mr. Bush's tax cuts for the middle class, and their own plans for universal health care. 
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have both vowed that they would raise tax rates on families in the top two income brackets, with the top tax rate climbing back to 39.6 percent from 35 percent today. 
 But both have indicated that they would use that money to pay for expanded health care.
 ''One way I would pay for this is to take the Bush tax cuts that are set to expire on people making more than $250,000 a year,'' Mrs. Clinton said at the Democratic debate on Jan. 31. ''I would put that into these subsidies for the health care credits, so that people would be able to afford the health care that we are offering.''
 For a preview of the clash over revenue, consider the $882 billion tax overhaul proposed last fall by Representative Charles Rangel, Democrat of New York and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
 Mr. Rangel, going slightly further than Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama, would effectively revoke the Bush tax cuts for families earning more than $200,000 a year. Unlike the presidential candidates, however, Mr. Rangel would use almost all of that money to eliminate the alternative minimum tax, leaving none for an expansion of health care.
 Mr. Rangel and other House Democratic leaders show no interest in picking a fight over the issue before the fall elections. But when the dust settles and a new president takes over, the challenge will be hard to avoid. 

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY TIM ROBINSON)
CHART: THE COST OF ALLOWING TAC XUTS TO EXPIRE ...: If the Bush tax cuts were allowed to expire as scheduled at the end of 2010, here are some of the potential consequences for taxpayers:
 ... AND THE COST OF EXTENDING THEM: If the Bush tax cuts were extended, and the alternative minimum tax were indexed to inflation, the cumulative cost to the national budget, including interest, would be an estimated $4.3 trillion through 2018. (Source: Tax Policy Center, Congressional Budget Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FAMILY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); DIVIDENDS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); MEDICARE (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



273 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 5281 words

HEADLINE: The Professional

BYLINE: By FRED KAPLAN. 
Fred Kaplan is the national-security columnist for Slate and the author of ''Daydream Believers: How a Few Grand Ideas Wrecked American Power,'' which is out this month. He last wrote for the magazine about tensions between the Army's generals and junior officers.Gates said that he doesn't know how long troops will need to stay in Iraq, though he said the involvement would probably last 'through several presidencies.'

 BODY:
One afternoon in late November, Defense Secretary Robert Gates was flying back to Washington from the Army base at Fort Hood, Tex., where he had spoken with soldiers and spouses about the future of Iraq. Sitting across from him at his desk in the back of the Pentagon's jet, I asked him about the possibility of another military conflict: U.S. air strikes on Iran. ''The last thing the Middle East needs now is another war,'' he said quietly. ''We have to keep all options on the table,'' he went on, reciting the standard caveat. ''But if Iraq has shown us anything, it's the unpredictability of war. Once a conflict starts, the statesmen lose control.'' 
 Gates then recalled a report that he wrote about Iran policy for the Council on Foreign Relations in 2004 with Zbigniew Brzezinski, for whom he worked as a staff member in the Carter White House. ''Based on what I heard from every expert, then and now,'' he said, ''I think there's a risk that an attack would strengthen Ahmadinejad'' -- the Iranian president -- ''and solidify the Iranian people's support for their regime.'' Gates also noted a lesson from his years as deputy national security adviser, deputy director of the C.I.A. and director of central intelligence during the presidencies of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush. ''I learned to ask the question, What's Chapter 2?'' he said. ''If we do this, what will they do? Then what? Then what? Try to think two, three, four moves out.''
 He paused, then went on to say: ''Here's another lesson I've learned. Two of the presidents I've worked for got into trouble because of foreign policy: Carter and Reagan. And in both cases'' -- Carter with the hostage crisis in Tehran, Reagan with illegal arms shipments to raise money for the Nicaraguan contras -- ''they got into trouble over Iran.'' He half-smiled and cocked his eyebrows.
 It was a classic display of the traits that distinguish Gates from his predecessor, Donald Rumsfeld: caution as opposed to brashness, attention more to particulars than to grand theory and a view of history as a set of warning bells, not an outmoded mind-set to be transcended. Gates is clearly aware of the comparison. ''My favorite cartoon from my confirmation hearings,'' he said with a laugh, ''shows me holding up my hand and saying, I swear that I am not now, and have never been, Donald Rumsfeld.''
 Robert Michael Gates may be the ''anti-Rumsfeld,'' but -- contrary to the hopes, or fears, of many who have inferred too much from his moderate demeanor -- he is not the anti-Bush. He is, essentially, a loyalist, and ultimately he is discomfited by the frequent contrasts drawn with his predecessor. Gates spent much of his career as a staff member; he was the first C.I.A. director to rise through the agency from analyst to top spymaster. Even now, he never loses sight of the fact that he is not the decider. One senior Pentagon official who has worked for Gates and Rumsfeld and who was granted anonymity so he could speak frankly about his superiors, told me: ''Both have a very sophisticated understanding of how to make the boss successful. That's what they're about. The contexts are different. When Gates came in, the midterm election had obviously turned on the war. It didn't go well for the president's agenda. Gates's job was to reverse that -- to figure out what he could do differently to make the president's agenda work.'' (Rumsfeld declined to be interviewed for this article.)
 More than a year later, the biggest item on that agenda remains Iraq: if not to ''win'' the war, as was once envisioned, then at least not to lose it. It is widely known that Gates has had disagreements with Vice President Dick Cheney over how many troops to pull out of Iraq and how quickly. But on the question of whether a fairly substantial number of troops should stay there for a long time to come, there is no real space between them.
 Gates became secretary of defense with two years and a month left in Bush's presidency -- little time to accomplish much. He arrived, he said, with two priorities. ''First,'' he told me, ''was putting Iraq in a better place,'' which to his mind meant improving security so that troop levels could be cut but also harnessing bipartisan support for a long-term presence as a ''stabilizing force.'' Second was restoring ''a whole series of relationships -- with the Hill, with other agencies and with the senior military leadership.''
 The second priority was easier and in some ways more urgent. A former Pentagon official and now a defense adviser to Gates, who was granted anonymity because he is not authorized to speak publicly, told me: ''Rumsfeld was so intent on bringing in a new era, he just rammed things through. He didn't care whether anyone came with him.'' An Army general, who is still on active duty and thus not at liberty to speak on the record, qualified this point: ''If you pushed back at Rumsfeld, he accepted it.'' But, he added, senior military officers are trained not to push back too hard at civilian authority. So instead they grew silent, disgruntled and demoralized. The Pentagon was veering toward the dysfunctional. Gates set about fixing that. The adviser said: ''Gates is a man who believes in institutions. And he saw the need to repair the institution of the Defense Department.'' From the outset, and nearly every week since, Gates has met with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, usually in ''the tank,'' the chiefs' inner sanctum inside the Pentagon. Rumsfeld seldom visited the tank; when he wanted to see the chiefs, he called them into his office. 
 ''As an old Kremlinologist, I pay attention to symbols,'' Gates explained. ''This affects my interaction with people.'' He also, early on, flew to the military's various regional headquarters -- Central Command, European Command and so forth -- to talk with the combatant commanders, again on their own turf. ''I saw too many instances, when I was very junior in the C.I.A. and elsewhere,'' he recalled, ''where somebody would come in and try to impose change from the top and not listen to people. And even if they were able to implement that change in the short term, it ended the day they left office.'' He went on to say: ''It's really important, if you want lasting change, to involve the professionals in the institution. Because then the solution, at the end of the day, is their solution, and they're going to defend it once the person who initiated it is long gone. I think that a lot of people who come to government, often from business'' -- as Rumsfeld did, though Gates didn't cite this example -- ''don't understand how big public bureaucracies work and the capacity of the bureaucracy to outlast anybody.''
 Gates has taken a similarly inclusive approach to Capitol Hill. Unlike Rumsfeld, he must deal with a House and Senate controlled by the Democrats, who are aware that the president whom Gates serves is unpopular and short on time. ''I'm one of the few people in a senior level who's spent most of his career in the executive branch when one or both houses are held by an opposing party,'' Gates said. ''I know how to do this.'' 
 So far, it seems, he has been effective. ''He understands input and solicits it,'' Carl Levin, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, told me. ''He has allayed many concerns and proven to be a breath of fresh air. He consults; he cooperates.'' The consultation can be more than symbolic. For example, last spring, Gates was inclined to renew Gen. Peter Pace's term as chairman of the Joint Chiefs. Levin, however, along with several Republican senators, told him the hearings would be rough and maybe unsuccessful. Rumsfeld might have savored the fight; Gates let Pace go. Still, on the big issues, the budget and the war, Congress (to the frustration of many critics) has given Gates -- and, by extension, Bush -- pretty much everything he has asked for.
 Gates, who is 64, grew up in Wichita, Kan., where he still has family, and speaks in the steady cadences and slight twang of a Midwesterner. Short, with thin white hair and a bit of a waddle in his walk, he cuts an unimposing figure at first glance. But there is a steely glint in his eyes when he confronts a challenger. He didn't rise through the C.I.A.'s ranks, survive scandals involving his superiors and maneuver through Washington's corridors of power by being a milquetoast.
 During George H. W. Bush's presidency, as deputy to the national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, Gates headed the N.S.C.'s Deputies Committee, the group of deputy secretaries -- of State, Defense and other national-security agencies -- who prepare the paperwork, outline policy options and often make preliminary decisions for their bosses. When I phoned Scowcroft recently, he recalled: ''Before his meetings, Bob would come in and ask, 'How do we want this meeting to end up?' He and I would figure out what we wanted. And sure enough, it would end up exactly that way. And everybody loved him. They all came out of the meeting thinking that they'd come up with the solution.''
 Two weeks after the flight back from Fort Hood, I met with Gates in his spacious office on the third floor of the Pentagon and asked him about Scowcroft's recollection. He laughed. ''The story is completely accurate,'' he said. ''I made it a practice that no deputies' meeting would ever go longer than an hour. . . . I also had a rule that in almost every meeting, there would be an action'' -- a policy decision -- ''at the end.'' He required the deputies to take the decision they reached to their bosses, and to bring it back to the committee if there was a problem, the same day. This top-down streamlining, he said, was a response to his own experience as a junior official, ''sitting through endless, agonizingly stupid meetings where everybody just kind of goes round and round and round and nothing ever happens,'' as he put it. ''The natural propensity of a bureaucracy is not to have a decision . . . to chew this cud until there's no taste at all. So my view is, the way you get crisp decisions is by imposing very short deadlines and then sticking to them. Everybody gets a chance to be heard, but not three or four times.''
 His aversion to overdeliberation has sometimes backfired. In 1991, at his confirmation hearings for C.I.A. director, two of the agency's Soviet analysts told the Senate Intelligence Committee that while Gates was the C.I.A.'s deputy director in the mid-1980s, he ''politicized'' intelligence on orders from William Casey, the extremely hawkish and demanding director. ''Casey seized on every opportunity to exaggerate the Soviet threat,'' one of these witnesses, Melvin Goodman, testified. Gates, he said, ''pandered to Casey's agenda,'' ignored analysts who put forth contrary views and so served to ''corrupt the process and the ethics of intelligence.'' 
 They were grueling hearings. Gates was confirmed, though with one-third of the Senate voting against him. He prevailed in part because of strong lobbying from the White House. Also important was the testimony of other C.I.A. employees -- including Goodman's superior, Doug MacEachin -- who explained that while Gates rejected rosier (and, as it turned out, more accurate) views of Soviet intentions, he did so not because of pressure from Casey but because of his own outlook. The C.I.A. had been overestimating the Soviet threat for decades, and Gates was a product of the C.I.A. During the Reagan administration, as deputy director for intelligence, Gates had strenuous disputes with Secretary of State George Shultz over whether Mikhail Gorbachev's reforms were genuine. During the first Bush administration, Gates had similar run-ins with Secretary of State James A. Baker III. Both presidents sided with their top diplomats, and as a result the cold war probably ended sooner than it would have otherwise.
 In the end, the confirmation hearings -- which Gates recalls as ''searing'' -- did leaven his management style. John Prados, who has written several books on the C.I.A., told me that as director, ''Gates made a very conscious effort to smooth the feathers that had been ruffled.'' He gathered a large group of intelligence officers to vent their complaints, formed a task force on how to reduce the dangers of politicization and brought the agency into the post-cold-war era by reassigning hundreds of analysts from the Eastern bloc to issues like nuclear proliferation and transnational terrorism. According to Prados, when Gates took over, 60 percent of the C.I.A.'s budget was aimed at Russia; within a year, the share was 13 percent.
 Gates's tenure as C.IA. director lasted only a year. After Bush lost the 1992 election to Bill Clinton, Gates and his wife bought a lakeside house north of Seattle and vowed never to return to the nation's capital. He lectured, served on corporate boards and wrote his memoirs (published in 1996 and titled ''From the Shadows''). In 1999, at Scowcroft's suggestion, Bush Sr. asked Gates to become dean of the new Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University. Two years later, Gates became the university's president, a five-year stint that he talks about with nostalgia. In February 2005, George W. Bush asked him to become the director of national intelligence, the newly created position that grew out of reforms recommended by the 9/11 Commission. After mulling the offer for two weeks, he turned it down, he told me, because he would have no authority to hire or fire people -- and that, he knew, meant no real power. 
 When Bush asked Gates to replace Rumsfeld in December 2006, Gates said, he ''agreed with no hesitation.'' At the time, many observers took Gates's appointment as a sign that the war in Iraq would soon be wound down. Scowcroft, his old boss, had spoken out against the war before it started, and many assumed that he wouldn't have done so without at least a tacit go-ahead from Bush Sr., who was still his close friend. And Gates, the reasoning went, was no less a ''Bush 41 man.'' He was also a member of the Iraq Study Group, the commission headed by Jim Baker (another Bush 41 man) and the former Democratic congressman Lee Hamilton. (Despite their earlier disagreements, Baker picked Gates to be on the panel.) The group's report was recommending sharp troop cuts, a scaled-back mission and extensive diplomatic initiatives across the Middle East.
 The Baker-Hamilton report, however, released to great fanfare around the time Gates became secretary, was not so clear-cut. A little-noted passage, buried on Page 73, read: ''We could . . . support a short-term redeployment or surge of American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad . . . if the U.S. commander in Iraq determines that such steps would be effective.'' (Emphasis added.) The idea for a surge came from two panelists, both Democrats: the former Virginia senator Chuck Robb and one of Bill Clinton's former defense secretaries, William Perry. Gates had stepped down from the panel to become defense secretary before the report was drafted, but he told me he had no quarrel with the notion of a surge. Baker recalled in a phone conversation with me recently: ''During preliminary discussions, when we flew over to Iraq for briefings, a lot of Democrats -- as well as myself and [Edwin] Meese and Gates -- were supportive of Robb and Perry's position. Unless you improved security, you really couldn't expect the Iraqis to do what we wanted them to do. . . . Nobody disagreed with that.'' 
 It was during the panel's trip to Iraq in August 2006 that Gates was sold on the idea of a surge -- though as a prelude to troop reductions. He and the others were briefed by the multinational corps commander in Iraq, Lt. Gen. Pete Chiarelli. According to one participant in the briefing, who is still on active duty and not authorized to speak on the record, Chiarelli put forth what would be the principal rationale for the surge that eventually began last February. The main problem in Iraq, Chiarelli told them, was the sectarian nature of the Shiite-led government and its refusal to reach out to Sunnis. Before the factions could reach a political settlement, they needed Baghdad to be secure. Security was also needed for the steady supply of essential services, which in turn might build allegiance to the government and dry up support for the insurgents. Boosting security, though, meant more troops. Without more troops, Chiarelli told them, he could ''clear'' Baghdad of insurgents, but he couldn't ''hold'' the city -- he couldn't keep it secure -- much less ''build'' its infrastructure. 
 Gates and Chiarelli hit if off so well that after Gates came to the Pentagon, he hired the general to be his senior military assistant. Chiarelli gave Gates an advance copy of an article he wrote for the journal Military Review called ''Learning From Our Modern Wars,'' which called for a shift in Army doctrine away from large-scale combat against enemies of comparable strength toward ''asymmetric warfare,'' especially counterinsurgency operations. Last October, in a speech before the Association of the U.S. Army, Gates made a pitch for these ideas. To the Army hierarchy, which is dominated by tank and infantry officers who cut their teeth -- and still stack their budgets -- on old-style combat, it amounted to a rebel cry. Gates also approved a move to appoint Gen. David Petraeus, the U.S. commander in Iraq and chief author of the Army's field manual on counterinsurgency, as the head of the brigadier-general promotion board this past fall. The move was clearly intended, and widely interpreted, to help ensure the promotion of creative commanders who were previously passed over for promotion from colonel to one-star general -- in short, to start the process of institutionalizing the new style of warfare.
 Another step Gates took in that process was to accelerate production and delivery of the MRAP (for Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected) vehicle, an armored troop carrier that is much less vulnerable to roadside bombs. Gates even redirected more than $1 billion to the MRAP that was originally meant for other programs, over the resistance of some Army bureaucrats. Gates's push stemmed from the first controversy of his tenure, last winter. When the deplorable conditions for wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Army Medical Center first came to light, one senior Pentagon official recalled, ''Gates cleared his calendar'' and worked on almost nothing else. In an unusual display of accountability during the Bush presidency, he also fired the secretary of the Army, Francis Harvey.
 At the Marine Corps Association's annual dinner in July, Gates cried while eulogizing Capt. Douglas Zembiec, a marine known as ''the lion of Fallujah,'' who had recently died in battle. By that time, Gates was writing personal notes at the bottom of every condolence letter sent to families of troops killed in battle. ''I want the recipient of that note to know that the secretary of defense actually saw that letter, signed that letter, thought about that letter,'' he told me on the plane ride back from Fort Hood. ''It forces me to pay attention to every single one of the young people killed -- how they died, where their hometown is, what other members of their unit were killed. I've kept count -- 796 Americans have been killed in Iraq on my watch.'' (This was as of Nov. 27.) He denied that he keeps count as an explicit corrective to Rumsfeld's deputy, Paul Wolfowitz, who at one Congressional hearing admitted that he didn't know how many troops had died in the war that he helped to start. Still, the contrast has been widely noticed, not least by marines and soldiers.
 During his confirmation hearings for defense secretary, Gates said that he had supported the invasion of Iraq in 2003. But when Mark Dayton, the Democratic senator from Minnesota, asked if he thought in retrospect that the war was now a mistake, Gates replied, ''That's a judgment the historians are going to have to make'' -- not a ringing endorsement, though also carefully ambiguous. In my two meetings with him, he declined to elaborate further. To Gates's way of thinking, the question at this point is irrelevant. We are there. What do we do about it now?
 A debate on this question was held in the White House over a period of weeks last summer -- and one noteworthy thing about it is that a debate took place at all. Rumsfeld rarely expressed his views during interagency meetings. In many instances, his frequent ally, Cheney, would present their side to Bush later, in private. After this pattern became clear, Colin Powell, the secretary of state during Bush's first term, started occasionally resorting to the same tactic. All the major players were pushing their positions in end runs. Condoleezza Rice, then the national security adviser, lacked the ability to control them. Bush himself never laid down the law or demanded a stop to the game playing. As a result, on many vital issues, he never heard significant debate. Now, arguments are often carried out in front of the president, and Gates spends a lot of time at the White House, making sure his position is heard. 
 ''There's a new tone,'' said the former Pentagon official who is now a Gates adviser. ''People are putting away the drums.'' Specifically on the question of whether to bomb Iran's nuclear facilities, he and several officials I spoke with insisted there is no longer much debate. The National Intelligence Estimate, made public in December, which concluded that Iran had ''halted its nuclear weapons program'' four years earlier, was only one factor that took an attack off the table. (According to one of Gates's aides, who was granted anonymity because he is not authorized to speak on the matter, Gates was the one who pushed for declassification of the N.I.E.'s ''key findings,'' arguing that the report would be leaked anyway. Gates has since publicly stressed the less assuring aspects of the estimate -- that Iran is still enriching uranium and may resume the weapons program at any time. And more than his counterparts at the State Department, he has argued for stepping up economic pressures against Tehran.)
 At last summer's debate on Iraq, Cheney urged the president to resist the Democrats' call for troop withdrawals and to prolong the surge indefinitely. But the Joint Chiefs argued that they didn't have the troops to sustain the surge beyond the summer of 2008. Gates made a more political point: that if there were no prospects for gradual but substantial troop withdrawals, popular support for the war would evaporate, and the next president would probably pull out all the troops as quickly as possible, resulting in Iraq's potential collapse. On the plane from Fort Hood, Gates spelled out his position. ''We need bipartisan support for a prolonged presence in Iraq,'' he said. ''But to do that, we need to demonstrate that we're drawing down to lower levels.'' He recalled watching one of the early Democratic presidential debates. The moderator asked the candidates if they would promise to withdraw all U.S. troops from Iraq by 2013, the end of the first term. The three candidates with the highest poll ratings all declined to make that pledge. Gates remembered saying to himself, ''My work here is done.''
 Still, the matter is far from settled. In his Pentagon office, Gates told me that he doesn't know how long troops will need to stay in Iraq, though he said the involvement would probably last ''through several presidencies.'' And as for how quickly troops can be withdrawn, he seems less and less certain.
 By the end of July, U.S. troop levels will be reduced from 20 brigade combat teams, or B.C.T.'s, to 15. But this is a result of math, not policy. The surge boosted levels from 15 brigades to 20. By midsummer, the last of those five extra brigades will have reached the end of their 15-month tours of duty. There are no brigades ready to replace them. So the number of brigades will fall back to 15. 
 While Gates was visiting Fort Hood, he had breakfast with a dozen soldiers who were about to head back to Iraq for their second or third tours. Gates told them, ''My hope is that the drawdown can continue after July at the same pace, so that we're down to 10 B.C.T.'s by the end of 2008.'' This smaller force, he added, ''will almost certainly mean we'll have a different mission.'' There will still be ''pockets of fighting,'' but the effort will shift away from combat to support, training, logistics and counterterrorism.
 After the breakfast, he met with about 30 wives of soldiers who were still in Iraq. (I was allowed to sit in and take notes on both meetings as long as I didn't print the names of those participating.) Many of the wives wanted to know how much longer these 15-month deployment tours would go on. (Before the surge, tours lasted 12 months, followed by 12-month home leaves.) Gates said that he knew the extended tours were ''exhausting'' the soldiers and their families. He said that he hoped not only to pull out an additional five brigades by the end of 2008 but also to resume the 12-month tours. Sometime after that, he hoped, tours might be relaxed further, to one year deployed, then two years at home. Finally, he noted that he had authorized the recruitment of 65,000 more soldiers over the next several years. With more troops available and fewer troops needed in Iraq, rotations might be stretched out further still, to one year deployed and three years at home.
 But all these calculations depended on two crucial premises -- that security continues to improve in Iraq and that Iraqi politicians settle their sectarian disputes. If those premises don't hold, further troop cuts beyond July might not be possible; deployment schedules might not be relaxed, either. Under those circumstances, it will be hard for the Army to sign up tens of thousands of extra recruits.
 The night before his meetings with the soldiers and spouses, Gates spoke at a Chamber of Commerce dinner in Killeen, Tex., the small town whose entire economy depends on Fort Hood. ''The people who encourage young people to go into the military are less positive than they used to be,'' Gates told the packed ballroom. ''That includes the dads, who have been the foundation for recruitment. Until we reach the point where joining the Army doesn't mean an automatic assignment to Iraq, we'll have a challenge.'' This was the main reason, he said, why he's ''hopeful that we'll be able to continue the drawdowns after July'' -- to make the dads less nervous about encouraging their kids to sign up.
 Will these hopes be realized? The week after his trip to Texas, Gates flew to several Middle Eastern nations, including Iraq, where U.S. commanders told him that they could cut back to 10 brigades if that was his order -- but, they cautioned, don't expect this smaller force to secure the Iraqi population. Since that trip, Gates has spoken more cautiously about rapidly cutting to 10 brigades. During the interview in his Pentagon office, he interrupted when I referred to his earlier statements on the subject. ''I haven't said I want to be at 10 [brigades] or that we should be at 10 by the end of the year,'' he said. ''I said it's my hope that we could do that, and it will depend on the conditions on the ground and the recommendations of the senior military advisers.''
 And so Gates finds himself facing the same dilemma that has frustrated both supporters and critics of the war. On the one hand, it's probably dangerous just to pull out. Gates put it this way at his breakfast with the Fort Hood soldiers: ''I don't want to talk about how we got to where we are'' -- at his meeting with the wives, he started a similar sentence more frankly, ''Maybe we screwed this up at the beginning. . . .'' -- ''but I know damn well we'd better get the endgame right, or we're going to have a big problem, we're going to be back there in 5 or 10 years.'' He added that it's ''important to send the Iraqis a message: that we're going to be coming home, and it's time for them to step up to the plate.'' But on his trip to Baghdad, he was confronted with the gnawing question: If the Iraqis don't, or can't, ''step up to the plate,'' should we come home anyway? And if the troops don't start coming home at a faster clip, if they stay embroiled in sectarian conflicts that the Iraqis do nothing to settle, what happens to the bipartisan support that Gates has sought as his highest priority? Gates is very skillful at controlling a bureaucracy, but a war is something else. As Gates himself said on the plane from Fort Hood, once a conflict starts, the statesmen -- people like him -- lose control.
 Part of Gates's appeal may be that he seems to come from an earlier era -- one that was in some ways deadlier but in other ways calmer, more predictable. ''My view of how foreign policy gets made was very much shaped by the fact that I've spent most of my career during the cold war, where the fundamental strategy was embraced under nine different presidents,'' Gates told me in his Pentagon office. It was a time when political leaders understood that ''if you're to have any enduring goals, they have to have bipartisan support. And that's shaped my approach to Iraq and a whole bunch of other things.''
 It was easier to forge consensus when the world was divided into the realms of two superpowers and America's main task was to stand guard on the border and keep the Russians at bay. It is much harder when power is dispersed and achieving our ''enduring goals'' is said to require intervening -- and taking casualties -- in a faction-frayed Iraq. Can counterinsurgency, which by its nature involves long, twilight struggles against murky foes, be a lasting legacy for Gates or a viable centerpiece for U.S. policy? Can the Army be persuaded to embrace it? Can the public? 
 When the next president takes the oath on Jan. 20, 2009, Gates will be just 65 years old, but he insists he will retire from public life, this time for good. A friend recently gave him an electronic key chain, inscribed ''The Gates Countdown,'' with a small screen reading out how many days remain till the end of the term. He carries it everywhere, in part as a joke but not entirely. Told that those screens can be reset, he replied, ''Not this one.'' When I mentioned that some lawmakers would like him to stay on in the next administration, he replied, ''I am very wary of saying, 'Never,' '' but added, ''The circumstances under which I would do that are inconceivable to me.''
 Arrayed around his office are photos of his remote lakeside house in the Pacific Northwest -- as far away from Washington, D.C., as almost any spot in the continental United States. On one wall is a painting of nearby Mount Rainier. He said that he tells visitors, ''Those pictures are there to remind you I don't have to be doing this.'' Gates's press secretary, Geoff Morrell, tried to brighten the mood: ''I don't want you to leave the impression -- you're still having fun in this job, though, aren't you? I mean, you enjoy what you're doing, no?'' Gates stared at him, for about 10 seconds. Finally, he turned back to me and said: ''I consider that, like our soldiers, I'm doing my duty. There are a lot of other things I'd rather be doing. But this is important.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC OGDEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (89%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); JIMMY CARTER (77%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%) TEXAS, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NICARAGUA (79%); IRAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



274 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: The Tightrope of Promising A Genuine Transformation

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
 The language was soaring, the racial elements muted, the mood upbeat even though the road ahead remained unclear. 
 But the end of the speech was all about the political power of belief -- belief that the cynics would not triumph, that dreams can come true, that the human spirit is indomitable. Through war, he said, they believed. Through depression and segregation, they believed. And today, with a new day in sight, we must believe, too.
 ''We believe,'' he said, ''like Stokely Carmichael, that we are the leaders we have been waiting for. We believe, like Gandhi, that we can be the change we wish to see in the world.'' 
 He continued, ''We believe, like our founding fathers infused into the spirit of our nation, that a people united can never be defeated.''
 O.K., Stokely Carmichael was the giveaway that this was not Barack Obama. No black man running for president is going to quote the firebrand of black power and black nationalism of the 1960s. But that aside, it's hardly an accident that the language, vision and policies of Newark's mayor, Cory A. Booker, mirror the man he's supporting: Mr. Obama.
 So when Mr. Booker gave his annual address to the city on Thursday, after 19 months in office, it was a reminder of many things.
 It was a reminder that Mr. Obama, for all the extraordinary elements of his campaign, is hardly a solitary figure in American politics, but one representative of a new generation of young black politicians that includes Mr. Booker, Mayor Adrian M. Fenty of Washington, Representative Artur Davis of Alabama and former Representative Harold Ford Jr. of Tennessee. It reflected the way race hasn't been transcended, it has just been transformed. While Mr. Obama has to prove to voters nationwide that he's not ''too black,'' Mr. Booker has had to convince voters in Newark he's black enough. The multi-ethnic America of today is not the black and white world of the past.
 Most of all it was a reflection of the delicate tightrope traversed by politicians promising something genuinely transformative. It's powerful stuff, but it's dangerous, too, because the only thing worse than failing to offer hope is to offer it and then be unable to deliver.
 ''We always talked about this when I was campaigning,'' Mr. Booker said on Friday, ''that I was walking a dangerous road as far as rational politics. If we fail, we burn out in a big way. But if we succeed, we can help change this city and this country.''
 Which was why, for this year, at least, Mr. Booker's speech had the credible sound of someone who had walked through fire and survived. It's way too early, of course, to know if he'll succeed, but Mr. Booker was able to boast that in his first full year in office he had made progress in living up to his Obama-esque rhetoric. 
 Most important was his signature issue, crime. A national survey by the Police Executive Research Forum, he said, found that Newark had had the greatest reduction in crime among 168 cities. There were other things to point to: partnerships and investments that will allow the largest parks expansion and rehabilitation in the city's history; a planned 60,000-square-foot children's museum; continued and growing downtown development, including offices and homes; and what he termed the first full-service, first-class hotel added to Newark's downtown in decades. 
 Mr. Booker's vision, like Mr. Obama's, is one part the ecumenical spirit of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., one part consensus-oriented, moderate-to-liberal politics, big on things like public-private partnerships, and a willingness to at least consider some conservative ideas: school vouchers in Newark, for example. One program adopted from a success in Philadelphia offers job training and family skills, based on a shared brotherhood, to fathers who are unemployed or underemployed, and men who've been in prison. It's the sort of cultural underpinning that's necessary if the economic development downtown is to filter out to those stuck in Newark's dark corners.
 It all has great symbolic power -- a truly reborn Newark would be one of the most inspirational urban stories imaginable. Mr. Booker knows not just what it would mean for Newark but what it would mean for those stuck in all the dark corners of American life. ''We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny,'' he said, quoting Dr. King's ''Letter from Birmingham Jail.'' ''Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly.'' 
 But then Dr. King's letter also said: ''We know through painful experience that freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor; it must be demanded by the oppressed.'' Whether the sweet part of Dr. King's vision can be separated from the bitter realities, whether the raised hopes can be redeemed without a tough price, is the back story both to Mr. Booker's dreams in Newark and Mr. Obama's in the nation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark have similarities in language, vision and policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); WALKING & JOGGING (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ARTUR DAVIS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



275 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; POLITICS ISSUE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: The Candidate

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA JACOBS. 
Alexandra Jacobs is an editor at The New York Observer.

 BODY:
THIRTY WAYS OF LOOKING AT HILLARY 
 Reflections by Women Writers. 
 Edited by Susan Morrison. 
 Illustrated. 254 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $23.95. 
 I want the citizenry to elect Hillary Clinton as president of the United States next November -- if only so that we might all get a respite from seeing her offhand, controversial 1992 comment that she could have ''stayed home and baked cookies and had teas'' (rather than pursuing an outside profession) parsed and squeezed and hung out to dry again and again like the moldy old dishrag that it is. Dull economic policy briefs? Droning States of the Union with senators clapping cheerlessly in the aisles? Forced marches down the stairs of Air Force One, striding in the hot sun across the Rose Garden to the familiar strains of ''Hail to the Chief''? Bring 'em on, baby -- bring 'em on. 
 Cookies and teas; headbands and helmet hair; Gennifer Flowers and Tammy Wynette; cleavage and perhaps a soupcon of Botox. ''Thirty Ways of Looking at Hillary,'' an impressive if somewhat exhausting anthology about the first feasible female presidential contender, is a prism focused almost exclusively on such familiar emblems of the domestic realm -- not welfare reform, but the inner confines of the White House. 
 Indeed, reading the book, whose contributors are all lacking Y chromosomes and almost exclusively culled from the East Coast liberal establishment press, feels a bit as though a high court of American letters, or a line of literary Rockettes, were rummaging repeatedly through Mrs. Clinton's past and perhaps future kitchen and bathroom cabinets, closets and underwear drawers: an experience both intimate and mundane. (It might have been fun to throw -- well, not Ann Coulter, but maybe some saucy right-winger into the mix.) The title is a riff on the Wallace Stevens poem ''Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird,'' but much of the contents also conjure the Paul Simon song ''Fifty Ways to Leave Your Lover'': reflective, yes, but also resigned, repetitive and thematically ambivalent. 
 Many of the women here may be poised to pull the lever, or punch the chad, for Hillary Clinton, but none of them appear ready to do it with any degree of zest; even the noted feminist Katha Pollitt, back bravely in front of her computer Googling Hillary haters after writing a much-mocked article about cyberstalking an ex-lover, says it's the ''sulfurous emanations'' she finds online that might drive her to vote for Clinton, not the candidate's stance on the issues. And so they dance around this looming decision in slow, concentric circles, occasionally bumping up against one another. The Pulitzer Prize-winning Washington Post fashion reporter Robin Givhan praises Hillary's penchant for pantsuits but bemoans that ''she still hasn't become what we crave, even need: an icon of female power.'' Some 25 pages later, Leslie Bennetts, who earlier this year released the excellent pro-career treatise ''The Feminine Mistake: Are We Giving Up Too Much?,'' refers contemptuously to ''an overwrought fashion writer'' from The Washington Post -- guess which? -- who raised the dubious disgrace of Mrs. Clinton's exposed decolletage last July. Me-ouch!
 Which is not to suggest in the slightest that this is some kind of bitchy quilting bee. Mostly the writers collected herein, very few of whom have met the candidate in person, choose to confront far obscurer texts than one another's recent work, perhaps because doing so helps them defer the difficult task of fixing their subject on the page. The New Yorker writer Rebecca Mead, author of a book about the extravagance of American weddings, deconstructs ''Kisses for My President,'' a 1964 movie starring Polly Bergen as the chief executive and Fred MacMurray as the hapless first fellow, a long-lost pop culture artifact that frankly doesn't seem to warrant revival; one wishes she had spent more time supporting her provocative conclusion that ''it's impossible to imagine Hillary's election being anything other than her marriage's ultimate consummation.''
 Several other writers are moved to personal reminiscences, as if all the prying into the Clintons' affairs compels them to shake out their own dirty linens; the novelists Kathryn Harrison, Cristina Henriquez and Lara Vapnyar revisit their grandparents (the last's essay is actually titled ''Hillary's Underpants.''); the younger writer Ariel Levy, a contributing editor at New York magazine, notes in a dark disquisition about infidelity that Hillary Clinton's famous ''60 Minutes'' comment about not standing by her man like Tammy Wynette ''sounded like my mom.'' For her, former first ladies had always been ''old ladies in pearls and pantyhose.'' The book's editor, Susan Morrison (she's also articles editor of The New Yorker), agrees, calling them ''creaky battleaxes who sat under hairdryers and wore brooches.'' 
 Others go for the gimmicks: the screenwriter Patricia Marx presents a humorous ''yearbook entry'' for the youthful Hillary (''Varsity Whitewater Rafting!''); the writer Susan Orlean, perhaps preoccupied with the biography of Rin Tin Tin she's working on, wonders with some absurdity whether Clinton is a dog person or a cat person; the former food critic Mimi Sheraton examines the candidate's menu choices over the years; Lauren Collins of The New Yorker proposes various hobbies -- macrame or miniature war-gaming? -- for the busy senator. 
 Let's just say that a comic strip printed here, by the pricelessly succinct Roz Chast -- ''Why should she be 'likable'?'' Chast's alter ago asks. ''She's not running for Miss Congeniality'' -- is not the only cartoonish thing in this book. Meanwhile, the New York Times contributor Judith Warner pretty much throws up her hands about the whole assignment. ''Fifteen years of reading, writing, reporting and thinking about Hillary Clinton have left me convinced that no one outside her innermost circle will ever truly know the very private woman -- as opposed to the very public phenomenon -- that she is,'' Warner declares. So why is everyone trying so hard? Why not confine our scrutiny to her actions in the public sphere? 
 It is odd, if one pauses to consider it, to have a living person be the subject of an anthology. It puts her in the same category as the kind of cataclysmic event, or deep moral question, or psychological condition, that groups of intellectuals are more commonly convened to discuss. 
 And yet Hillary Clinton has already engaged with so many of these things in her thus-far remarkable life, perhaps it makes perfect sense.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WRITERS (90%); WOMEN (89%); LITERATURE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); CYBERCRIME (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Thirty Ways of Looking at Hillary (Book)>; Thirty Ways of Looking at Hillary (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008



276 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: When Women Rule

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
Maureen Dowd is off today.

 BODY:
While no woman has been president of the United States -- yet -- the world does have several thousand years' worth of experience with female leaders. And I have to acknowledge it: Their historical record puts men's to shame. 
 A notable share of the great leaders in history have been women: Queen Hatshepsut and Cleopatra of Egypt, Empress Wu Zetian of China, Isabella of Castile, Queen Elizabeth I of England, Catherine the Great of Russia, and Maria Theresa of Austria. Granted, I'm neglecting the likes of Bloody Mary, but it's still true that those women who climbed to power in monarchies had an astonishingly high success rate. 
Research by political psychologists points to possible explanations. Scholars find that women, compared with men, tend to excel in consensus-building and certain other skills useful in leadership. If so, why have female political leaders been so much less impressive in the democratic era? Margaret Thatcher was a transformative figure, but women have been mediocre prime ministers or presidents in countries like Sri Lanka, India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, the Philippines and Indonesia. Often, they haven't even addressed the urgent needs of women in those countries. 
 I have a pet theory about what's going on.
 In monarchies, women who rose to the top dealt mostly with a narrow elite, so they could prove themselves and get on with governing. But in democracies in the television age, female leaders also have to navigate public prejudices -- and these make democratic politics far more challenging for a woman than for a man.
 In one common experiment, the ''Goldberg paradigm,'' people are asked to evaluate a particular article or speech, supposedly by a man. Others are asked to evaluate the identical presentation, but from a woman. Typically, in countries all over the world, the very same words are rated higher coming from a man.
 In particular, one lesson from this research is that promoting their own successes is a helpful strategy for ambitious men. But experiments have demonstrated that when women highlight their accomplishments, that's a turn-off. And women seem even more offended by self-promoting females than men are.
 This creates a huge challenge for ambitious women in politics or business: If they're self-effacing, people find them unimpressive, but if they talk up their accomplishments, they come across as pushy braggarts. 
 The broader conundrum is that for women, but not for men, there is a tradeoff in qualities associated with top leadership. A woman can be perceived as competent or as likable, but not both. 
 ''It's an uphill struggle, to be judged both a good woman and a good leader,'' said Rosabeth Moss Kanter, a Harvard Business School professor who is an expert on women in leadership. Professor Kanter added that a pioneer in a man's world, like Hillary Rodham Clinton, also faces scrutiny on many more dimensions than a man -- witness the public debate about Mrs. Clinton's allegedly ''thick ankles,'' or the headlines last year about cleavage.
 Clothing and appearance generally matter more for women than for men, research shows. Surprisingly, several studies have found that it's actually a disadvantage for a woman to be physically attractive when applying for a managerial job. Beautiful applicants received lower ratings, apparently because they were subconsciously pegged as stereotypically female and therefore unsuited for a job as a boss.
 Female leaders face these impossible judgments all over the world. An M.I.T. economist, Esther Duflo, looked at India, which has required female leaders in one-third of village councils since the mid-1990s. Professor Duflo and her colleagues found that by objective standards, the women ran the villages better than men. For example, women constructed and maintained wells better, and took fewer bribes. 
 Yet ordinary villagers themselves judged the women as having done a worse job, and so most women were not re-elected. That seemed to result from simple prejudice. Professor Duflo asked villagers to listen to a speech, identical except that it was given by a man in some cases and by a woman in others. Villagers gave the speech much lower marks when it was given by a woman.
 Such prejudices can be overridden after voters actually see female leaders in action. While the first ones received dismal evaluations, the second round of female leaders in the villages were rated the same as men. ''Exposure reduces prejudice,'' Professor Duflo suggested.
 Women have often quipped that they have to be twice as good as men to get anywhere -- but that, fortunately, is not difficult. In fact, it appears that it may be difficult after all. Modern democracies may empower deep prejudices and thus constrain female leaders in ways that ancient monarchies did not. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BRITISH MONARCHS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (92%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); AUSTRIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



277 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: You Are What You Spend

BYLINE: By W. MICHAEL COX and RICHARD ALM. 
W. Michael Cox is the senior vice president and chief economist and Richard Alm is the senior economics writer at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.

DATELINE: Dallas 

 BODY:
WITH markets swinging widely, the Federal Reserve slashing interest rates and the word ''recession'' on everybody's lips, renewed attention is being given to the gap between the haves and have-nots in America. Most of this debate, however, is focused on the wrong measurement of financial well-being.
It's true that the share of national income going to the richest 20 percent of households rose from 43.6 percent in 1975 to 49.6 percent in 2006, the most recent year for which the Bureau of Labor Statistics has complete data. Meanwhile, families in the lowest fifth saw their piece of the pie fall from 4.3 percent to 3.3 percent. 
 Income statistics, however, don't tell the whole story of Americans' living standards. Looking at a far more direct measure of American families' economic status -- household consumption -- indicates that the gap between rich and poor is far less than most assume, and that the abstract, income-based way in which we measure the so-called poverty rate no longer applies to our society.
 The top fifth of American households earned an average of $149,963 a year in 2006. As shown in the first accompanying chart, they spent $69,863 on food, clothing, shelter, utilities, transportation, health care and other categories of consumption. The rest of their income went largely to taxes and savings.
 The bottom fifth earned just $9,974, but spent nearly twice that -- an average of $18,153 a year. How is that possible? A look at the far right-hand column of the consumption chart, labeled ''financial flows,'' shows why: those lower-income families have access to various sources of spending money that doesn't fall under taxable income. These sources include portions of sales of property like homes and cars and securities that are not subject to capital gains taxes, insurance policies redeemed, or the drawing down of bank accounts. While some of these families are mired in poverty, many (the exact proportion is unclear) are headed by retirees and those temporarily between jobs, and thus their low income total doesn't accurately reflect their long-term financial status. 
 So, bearing this in mind, if we compare the incomes of the top and bottom fifths, we see a ratio of 15 to 1. If we turn to consumption, the gap declines to around 4 to 1. A similar narrowing takes place throughout all levels of income distribution. The middle 20 percent of families had incomes more than four times the bottom fifth. Yet their edge in consumption fell to about 2 to 1. 
 Let's take the adjustments one step further. Richer households are larger -- an average of 3.1 people in the top fifth, compared with 2.5 people in the middle fifth and 1.7 in the bottom fifth. If we look at consumption per person, the difference between the richest and poorest households falls to just 2.1 to 1. The average person in the middle fifth consumes just 29 percent more than someone living in a bottom-fifth household.
 To understand why consumption is a better guideline of economic prosperity than income, it helps to consider how our lives have changed. Nearly all American families now have refrigerators, stoves, color TVs, telephones and radios. Air-conditioners, cars, VCRs or DVD players, microwave ovens, washing machines, clothes dryers and cellphones have reached more than 80 percent of households. 
 As the second chart, on the spread of consumption, shows, this wasn't always so. The conveniences we take for granted today usually began as niche products only a few wealthy families could afford. In time, ownership spread through the levels of income distribution as rising wages and falling prices made them affordable in the currency that matters most -- the amount of time one had to put in at work to gain the necessary purchasing power. 
 At the average wage, a VCR fell from 365 hours in 1972 to a mere two hours today. A cellphone dropped from 456 hours in 1984 to four hours. A personal computer, jazzed up with thousands of times the computing power of the 1984 I.B.M., declined from 435 hours to 25 hours. Even cars are taking a smaller toll on our bank accounts: in the past decade, the work-time price of a mid-size Ford sedan declined by 6 percent. 
 There are several reasons that the costs of goods have dropped so drastically, but perhaps the biggest is increased international trade. Imports lower prices directly. Cheaper inputs cut domestic companies' costs. International competition forces producers everywhere to become more efficient and hold down prices. Nations do what they do best and trade for the rest.
 Thus there is a certain perversity to suggestions that the proper reaction to a potential recession is to enact protectionist measures. While foreign competition may have eroded some American workers' incomes, looking at consumption broadens our perspective. Simply put, the poor are less poor. Globalization extends and deepens a capitalist system that has for generations been lifting American living standards -- for high-income households, of course, but for low-income ones as well. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: HOW AMERICANS SPEND THEIR MONEY
 CONSUMPTION SPREADS FASTER TODAY (CHARTS BY NICHOLAS FELTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); POVERTY RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); INSURANCE POLICIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (64%)

COMPANY: YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (58%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



278 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; PLAYLIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Genres to Bend, Words to Finesse, Rhymes to Unravel

BYLINE: By KELEFA SANNEH

 BODY:
Cascada
 The Euro-pop act Cascada has hijacked ''What Hurts the Most,'' which was a hit for the pop-country trio Rascal Flatts, turning a delightfully whiny lament into a delightfully gaudy dance track. As the electronic rhythm pounds away, Natalie Horler belts out the lyrics, sounding at least twice as fierce as that guy from Rascal Flatts. (For truly insatiable listeners, Robbins Entertainment has released a 13-song CD full of remixes.) But turnabout is fair play: the country singer Blake Shelton just released, on Warner Nashville, his version of ''Home,'' the Michael Buble hit, which has also been covered by the Irish man band Westlife. So what's the next cross-country crossover? Shania Twain remaking Fall Out Boy's ''Thnks fr th Mmrs''? Will Young borrowing ''A Real Fine Place to Start'' from Sara Evans? Please?
Tinie Tempah 
 At the beginning of his recently released mixtape, ''Hood Economics Room 147: The 80 Minute Course'' (DL Records), this 19-year-old London grime M.C. marvels at how he beat the odds. Over a sample from ''The Logical Song'' by Supertramp he rhymes, ''Think how many youths were born that day in the same wing/I mean, same ward, and out of possible hundreds you're listening to the star outta dem/I'm so out to win, can't throw out the pen.'' His nerve, his shifting rhyme schemes and even his accent (''can't throw'' becomes ''cahn't fro'') might charm American listeners, providing they can find a way to buy or steal this pleasingly overstuffed CD. (Hear samples at myspace.com/tinielegend.) There are twitchy tracks that have become underground favorites, along with pop experiments: ''Wifey'' was his breakthrough; ''Perfect Girl,'' a smooth grime-pop collaboration with Ultra and Agent X, is his current British hit. And he borrows the beat from the Shop Boyz' ''Party Like a Rockstar'' to declare, ''You won't see Tinie falling by the wayside/'Cause next I'm going Stateside.'' Let's hope so.
 The Mountain Goats
 John Darnielle, the singer-songwriter behind the Mountain Goats, is a hard-core word nerd; there is proof in his barbed lyrics and more proof on his blog, lastplanetojakarta.com. The new Mountain Goats video, for ''Sax Rohmer #1,'' underscores his word obsession, and maybe mocks it too. (It was directed by Ace Norton; find it at spinner.com.) This is the great first single from the group's new album, ''Heretic Pride'' (4AD), and while Mr. Darnielle intones and (later) yelps the words, the camera reveals them, perfectly in sync with the song. The ominous lyrics -- ''Ships loosed from their moorings capsize and then they're gone/Sailors with no captains watch awhile and then move on'' -- are written all over the crowded set, on walls and floors and on the band members themselves. Now it's even harder to resist the temptation to read Mr. Darnielle instead of hearing him. 
 Say Hi
 In just about any other place or time in human history, a guy like Eric Elbogen never would have thought to pursue singing as a career, or even a hobby. He's an inveterate mumbler with a shaky sense of pitch, and he looks pretty awkward onstage. But there's something likable -- sometimes lovable -- about his indie-rock band, Say Hi. For the band's new album, ''The Wishes and the Glitch'' (Euphobia), he ditched his old vampire fixation as well as the last three words in his band name (to Your Mom); the result is a warm, modest set of songs that hide their melancholy beneath sturdy tunes and lots of fuzz. Expect his cult to grow, but just a little.
 AGF
 It's no insult to say that AGF -- a German ''vocalist, software musician, producer and e-poet'' -- specializes in rigorous electronic compositions that work equally well as background music. Her new project is ''Words Are Missing'' (AGF Producktion), an engrossing and puzzling hourlong CD. An elegant booklet goes some way toward explaining these sighing, flickering creations -- one restless track, which mellows as it grows, is based on a ''food combining chart'' taken from the Web site of an Oregon colon hydrotherapist -- but not, happily, all the way. There's really only one way to discover this album: slowly. 
 Webbie
 Straight out of Baton Rouge, La., an exuberant, club-friendly Southern hip-hop hit that may upend listeners' preconceptions about exuberant, club-friendly Southern hip-hop hits. It's called ''Independent'' (Trill/Asylum/Atlantic), and it gives Webbie -- along with his co-stars, Lil Boosie and Lil Phat -- a chance to advance an intriguing cause: feminism. Well, sort of. Over a gleaming electronic beat he rhymes, ''She got her own house, she got her own car/Two jobs, work hard -- you a bad broad!'' Suspicious listeners might notice that this independent woman also happens to be a low-maintenance girlfriend (''She got her own money, she don't need no help, man''), but there remains something pleasantly startling about hearing Webbie's cheerful spelling lesson on the radio. ''I-N-D-E-P-E-N-D-E-N-T, do you know what that mean?'' It means hip-hop's mixed messages just got a littler mixeder. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Natalie Horler of the Euro-pop act Cascada, which has covered a song that was a hit for the country group Rascal Flatts.
On his new mixtape, the London M.C. Tinie Tempah raps about ''going Stateside.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA THOMAS)
 John Darnielle, center, performing with the Mountain Goats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ATLAS/RETNA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); SONG WRITING (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%)

COMPANY: MYSPACE INC (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (64%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (64%)

PERSON: BLAKE SHELTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (77%) TENNESSEE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



279 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; AMERICA'S MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2105 words

HEADLINE: Shared Song, Communal Memory

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

DATELINE: EAST LANSING, Mich. 

 BODY:
THEY meet on the first Monday of the month at the Universalist Unitarian Church here, not to worship but to sing. Just to sing. There are song leaders, some with a guitar or a banjo or an autoharp, but this isn't a class or a choir; the singers, not the leaders, choose the tunes. Most hold copies of a spiral-bound songbook of folk music called ''Rise Up Singing.'' They perform songs like ''Keep On the Sunny Side'' and ''This Land Is Your Land.'' No one minds a voice gone off-key.
From Hawaii to Santa Cruz to the Philadelphia suburbs, in living rooms, churches and festival tents, similar gatherings -- called community sings, or singalongs -- draw together the average-voiced and bring old songs into common memory. 
 If there is a natural opposite to gold-plated pop irony and faceless file sharing -- music as the American majority knows it in 2008 -- this is it. These meetings are earnest, participant directed and person to person: a slow-going, folkish appreciation of American vernacular culture. 
 Much of this impulse descends from Pete Seeger, who has championed the cause of group-singing for more than 60 years. ''No one can prove a damn thing,'' Mr. Seeger said in a recent interview, ''but I think that singing together gives people some kind of a holy feeling. And it can happen whether they're atheists, or whoever. You feel like, 'Gee, we're all together.' ''
 Amateur group-singing has been around forever, of course, at bars, churches, schools, camps and stadiums. Community sings like the one in East Lansing are pitched halfway between the ritual of the campfire singalong and the self-conscious American folk-music movement of the 20th century. 
 In 1945 Mr. Seeger founded the People's Song collective, which disseminated its own songbooks, thereby helping to popularize songs like ''We Shall Overcome.'' The folk revival of the late 1950s and the subsequent rise of folk festivals, some of which included song-circles as special events, furthered the idea that singing together could reseed a homegrown culture and empower the ordinary citizen to change society. 
 In 1973 Peter Blood, a Quaker, political organizer, teacher and folk musician in Philadelphia, put together a homemade songbook called ''Winds of the People,'' which quickly took off in the group-sing scene. ''There was a demand for it in the circles we ran in, which were religious and summer-camp circles,'' said his wife, Annie Patterson. In time Movement for a New Society and other nonreligious activist organizations adopted it for singalong events.
 A decade later Mr. Blood and Ms. Patterson were envisioning a more ambitious book. They compiled and cleared the rights to 1,200 songs for ''Rise Up Singing,'' which was published in 1988. Mark Moss, editor of Sing Out! magazine, the pre-eminent journal of the folk movement, and also the publisher of the songbook, said it has sold about 800,000 copies, at $17.95 each. 
 It's hard to gauge the size of the community-sing movement because by its essentially casual nature it resists documenting. There is no central organization, no comprehensive Web site of regular events. Groups of the kind that use ''Rise Up Singing'' are not registered with the American Choral Directors Association and have no academic or institutional affiliation. 
 But Mr. Blood, who now lives in Amherst, Mass., said that by a conservative estimate at least 100 regular singalongs around the country use the book, in cities including Santa Cruz, Calif.; both Portlands; Rochester; Chicago; Milwaukee; and Atlanta. Some of these are easy to find in an online search; some are publicized through regional folk-music society newsletters, church bulletins or strictly by word of mouth.
 In East Lansing, Sally Potter, 47, a frank, energetic presence, leads the monthly sing. In early December the event drew about 80 people. Everyone gathered in the rear of the chapel, where the ceiling is low, ''so you can get the chills more easily,'' as Ms. Potter explained. 
 The chairs were arranged around an open square, the better to hear the blend of voices. The singers ranged from teenagers to the elderly; some had strong, penetrating voices, some murmured with wobbly pitch. They sang about 20 songs, including ''Star of the County Down'' (18th-century traditional Irish), ''The M.T.A. Song'' (a 1948 update of the early 20th-century American ballad ''The Wreck of the Old 97'') and ''The Rose'' (1979, soft-rock radio).
 The force of their voices grew during 90 minutes, with harmony occurring in unexpected places. In between numbers Ms. Potter waited for people to raise hands and politely make suggestions.
 ''Page 117, 'Julian of Norwich'?'' someone offered, referring to a selection from ''Rise Up Singing.'' 
 ''Great!'' Ms. Potter responded quickly. ''One of my favorite songs.'' 
 ''Is it 'Nor-witch,' '' another voice asked, ''or 'Nor-rich'?''
 ''I don't know,'' Ms. Potter said, shrugging, though she did. ''It's your song.''
 Some sang the word one way, some the other. But Ms. Potter does have a few guidelines, including this: If someone picks a song, and it takes more than 45 seconds for everyone to learn it, let it go. There were no nonstarters on this particular Monday. In general, Ms. Potter said, she believes that people should get to sing what they came to sing.
 The combined area of Lansing and East Lansing, which has a population of about 165,000 and is home to Michigan State University, has a perfect sense of scale for community projects: it's not too small, not too big, and despite a perpetually slumped economy, it has a great deal of civic pride. It also has a famous guitar store, Elderly Instruments, a folk-music locus open since 1972; the Ten Pound Fiddle Coffeehouse, a folk-concert producer that has put on events for almost that long; and a popular local folk-music radio show on the NPR-affiliated WKAR. 
 Ms. Potter teaches high school history and economics in nearby Williamston. She has lived in Lansing for the last 23 years, during which time she has owned a restaurant, run the local farmers' market and a used-sporting-goods store, and toured the Midwest in a folk trio, Second Opinion. Her interest in community sings goes back to the Hudson River Clearwater Festival in 1994, where Toshi Seeger, Pete's wife, led a singalong group in a tent. Ms. Potter saw the same people returning day after day to sit cross-legged and sing, and she realized that participation was folk music's core pleasure. 
 In 2003 she helped found the annual Mid Winter Singing Festival, a two-day event featuring community sings that tend to draw 400 to 500 people each night. This year's festival, the sixth, was last weekend. There was a blizzard the first night, yet 340 people fought their way to the Hannah Community Center, a large building across the street from the Unitarian church. 
 In the evening events the singers sat in an auditorium and faced the stage, referring to set lists and lyric sheets. The song leaders were folk singers with longstanding local reputations: Claudia Schmidt, Joel Mabus and Frank Youngman. 
 ''I've watched so many concerts, and I know what works,'' Ms. Potter said. ''When people are singing, you're giving them the power, you're giving them the music.''
 Peter Blood agrees. ''A lot of the experience of music in our culture is listening to someone else sing,'' he said. ''What I find exciting about community sings is that people feel they own the music.''
 ''Rise Up Singing'' includes rudimentary chord notations but otherwise gives no indication how to sing a particular song; it is essentially used as a book of lyrics. It is not the only book used for participatory singalongs (shape-note singers tend toward ''The Sacred Harp,'' originally published in 1844), and some singalong groups bring their own songs. But it is the breakaway hit of its kind in recent decades. 
 Dan Zanes, the singer and popular children's entertainer, used to sell ''Rise Up Singing,'' which he called ''the ultimate songbook,'' at his shows. ''We don't have that many songs rattling around in our heads anymore,'' he said, ''so we need a guide of sorts.'' 
 BookScan, which tracks sales back to 2000 through traditional bookstores, registers about 12,000 copies sold. But Mr. Moss said that most sales of the book have not come from bookstores. Song leaders order it by the boxful, directly from the publisher, or from the authors at quakersong.org.
 Mr. Moss said that although Sing Out! magazine did not map or facilitate the movement, he believed that it is ''much broader than 'Rise Up Singing.' ''
 ''Often I hear from people that they hate the book for use in those settings because people keep their noses in it,'' he said. 
 Mr. Blood and Ms. Patterson organized the songs in it by theme, including ''Ecology,'' ''Sea,'' ''Faith,'' ''Hard Times & Blues,'' ''Men'' and ''Women.'' (While the ''Women'' section is full of feminist vigor, the ''Men'' section is introspective, with songs like ''He Ain't Heavy, He's My Brother'' and ''Let the Woman in You Come Through.'') The book includes traditional black American hymns; Cuban, Mexican, Irish and Hebrew songs; Stephen Foster; Jacques Brel; the Beatles; Phil Ochs; Bob Dylan; and Stevie Wonder. There are songs for specific holidays and songs from musicals.
 With groovy spot-illustrations and hand-lettered calligraphy, ''Rise Up Singing'' has a 1970s liberal-progressive feel and an obvious bias toward group-singability, although Mr. Blood admitted that some of the songs were included more for lyrical content than for their significance or popularity. (The couple are at work on compiling a 1,200-song sequel that will include more selections from jazz, blues and rock.) 
 Perhaps the book's greatest strength is its tacit proposal that there are many, many songs Americans should know by heart. In 1943, when he was in the Army, Mr. Seeger conducted an experiment on his fellow soldiers, asking them to write down the names of the songs whose words and tunes they really knew. In his own memory file he counted about 300, but he was impressed by the competition. 
 ''I was surprised how many the average person knew back then,'' he said. He supposed that the number of songs crossing lines of generation, class and sex would be much lower today, outside of ''Over the Rainbow'' and ''Happy Birthday to You.'' 
 At 88 Mr. Seeger is still a song leader, helping to run a singalong at the monthly meeting of a volunteer environmental organization near his home in Beacon, N.Y. ''I like the sound of average voices more than trained voices,'' he said. ''Especially kids singing a little off pitch. They have a nice, rascally sound.'' 
 After ''Edelweiss,'' and a beautiful run-through of ''Song of Peace,'' adapted from Jean Sibelius's ''Finlandia,'' the session at the Universalist Unitarian Church wrapped up. It was almost 9 p.m., but nobody seemed in a rush to get home. A scattering of regulars stayed, packing up the cider and cookies. 
 One of them was Marcus Cheatham, 51, who works in public health. Earlier in the evening he introduced one of his own songs, picking a mandolin to teach the melody. Mr. Cheatham started singing about six years ago, when he joined a church choir and later a ''diversity choir'' at work, performing on Martin Luther King's Birthday and other holidays. The next step, he reasoned, was attending a community sing. 
 Asked if his knowledge of songs had grown since then, he corrected the question. ''My enjoyment of songs has grown,'' he said. ''I'm not much of a musician at all. If you enjoy it, you can jump in and do it.''
 ''In our little community,'' he added, ''the economy is horrible, and people are scared and sad. But you go to something like this, and you think, 'Wow, our community is resilient.' ''
 Margaret Kingsbury, 67, a nurse who is involved with peace groups, sounded a similar note. ''I honestly believe that this is one of the ways to create peace,'' she said. ''You go away from here, and you're uplifted.''
 Ms. Potter isn't surprised by such reactions. ''I think it's all a result of people needing to come together and find some power somewhere,'' she said. ''It's a political need and a spiritual need. How many people left early tonight? It's a Monday night. They're tired. But people didn't leave. That's how you know.''
 America's Music: This is the fourth in a series about popular music that flourishes outside the commercial mainstream. Previous articles examined the marching band of Prairie View A&M University near Houston, the rock scene at High Desert Church in Victorville, Calif., and polka dancing in the Midwest. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sally Rogers, left, at the Mid-Winter Singing Festival in East Lansing, Mich., an annual event featuring group-sings.
 Sally Potter, above, who leads a monthly group-sing in East Lansing. Above left, Wanda Degen on autoharp. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO CONSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); RELIGION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (64%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009



280 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Old-School Economics

 BODY:
Thank you for Christopher Caldwell's article (Jan. 27) and the fascinating statistics that accompany it. Who knew that in America today more people make their living by shuffling and dealing cards in casinos than by operating lathes? Who knew that there are almost three times as many security guards as machinists? 
 And let's just think about what it must be telling us about where our national effort is directed. What are blackjack dealers and casinos about? They are there to entertain the population with gambling while stripping them of their money. And what are security guards about? Their function is of course to protect the property of the affluent from the poorer population. Is that what we want our nation to be about, distracting the population while the rich get richer?
Caldwell is right that we need to address the real needs of people working in today's economy, but we should also be thinking about what kind of an economy would be more appropriate to our ideals and real needs as Americans.
 CAROLINE HERZENBERG
 Chicago
 The most troubling part of Caldwell's essay was its disregard for the larger cultural implications of welcoming ''the new economy.'' America's historic task of manufacture informed our national character with virtues that we now relinquish to our own and the world's peril. Caldwell's prototypical economic change, replacing machinists with ''people who make their livings shuffling and dealing cards in casinos,'' relegates the greater part of life, day by day, minute by minute, to mindless entertainment. Others, on starvation wages, will provide our own and the world's necessities while America will provide diversions.
 JEFF ZORN
 San Francisco

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); GAMING (90%); CARD GAMES (77%); NEW ECONOMY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



281 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Waving Goodbye to Hegemony

 BODY:
Parag Khanna (Jan. 27) may be right in general outline and in some specifics with his argument for an emerging new world order led by China, the European Union and the United States. But he poses not a single meaningful obstacle for either China or Europe along their paths to such emergence. Under his scenario, the two move only from strength to strength -- sewing up oil and gas contracts, filling power vacuums and winning not so much hearts and minds as some share of transient loyalty from unfailingly canny ''second world'' states. This while the U.S. apparently stands by helpless. 
 His thesis rests on the notion that the aforementioned second-world states will be key in determining how this new world order forms up and, further, that the Middle East is home to the largest share of these states. Fine, but surely then the U.S. relationship with Israel is worth some discussion here. He fails, however, to mention Israel, much less discuss this defining relationship and the implications for the U.S. in the region. 
The markets for oil and gas figure centrally in Khanna's scenario. If, though, the production, marketing and consumption of oil and gas are going to continue to drive the global economy, the unanimity of the scientific community's predictions for the dire consequences attending that behavior need to be addressed as a central economic concern. Startlingly, Khanna gives global warming only brief mention as an example of a problem needing to be worked out. 
 JAMES MCCARTHY
 Los Angeles
 If the prescience in Parag Khanna's extraordinary article is even half true, I am unwilling to commit to any candidate running for president in 2008 without hearing his or her comments and proposed programs on the topic. I suggest every televised debate present these questions.
 SUSAN SILVER
 New York
 Parag Khanna identifies important truths, but only some. American problems are perceptively identified, while profound, existential threats to China and Europe are studiously ignored. China is the first country of scale to attempt to graft an autocratic polity onto a free-market economy, and the jury is still out on the ultimate success of this experiment. China is the first culture in history that will have to deal with an enormous cadre of men who may never find wives. 
 We face socioeconomic problems indeed, starting with Medicare, but solutions are known if unpalatable. No one has ever had to solve China's demographic problem. And Europe's demographics are cratering, too. Will the Muslims filling the void carry on in the same ways?
 It is injudicious to predict change by looking at only one side of the coin.
 JOHN ROGITZ
 San Diego
 Parag Khanna's article misses the one alliance that could keep the United States from losing its strategic and economic influence -- that with Mexico. Mexico, literally on our doorstep, offers a growing market of more than 110 million people, tax-paying guest workers to replace a graying U.S. population, abundant raw materials and a vital link with Latin America. The only thing in the way is the need for the U.S. to do some ''European Union-style'' investment in the infrastructure of Mexico as well as increased investment in education. The rich European countries made Spain, Portugal and Greece their best customers. Now they are doing the same thing with their eastern members. Oh, and yes, the United States needs to look at Mexico as its most important partner, not its problem.
 JAMES C. CLARK
 Chula Vista, Calif. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN VAN AELST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); POLITICAL DEBATES (63%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



282 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Reformation

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT. 
Ross Douthat, a senior editor for The Atlantic, is the co-author of the forthcoming book, ''Grand New Party: How Republicans Can Win the Working Class and Save the American Dream.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
HAVING spent the better part of three months attacking Mike Huckabee and John McCain as crypto-liberals who would destroy the Reagan coalition, the pundits, talk-radio stars and professional activists who make up the establishment of the conservative movement had to grit their teeth this week as their preferred candidate, Mitt Romney, bowed to the inevitable and abandoned the field. Mr. Huckabee and Mr. McCain are now the last men standing in the race for the Republican presidential nomination.
Worse than watching the two heretics celebrate in the right-wing temple, perhaps, was that many of the conservative movement's own constituents had put them there. Despite Rush Limbaugh's insistence that nominating Mr. Huckabee or Mr. McCain would ''destroy the Republican Party,'' on Tuesday more than half of self-described conservatives voted for one of the two men over Mr. Romney, the candidate endorsed by Mr. Limbaugh. 
 After being denounced as a tax-and-spender and a pro-life liberal, Mr. Huckabee won four primaries in four Republican strongholds, including Alabama and Georgia. Mr. McCain split the frequent-churchgoer vote with Mr. Romney, and eclipsed him among evangelical Christians, even though the religious-conservative poobah James Dobson has promised to sit out the November election if Mr. McCain becomes the Republican nominee. 
 The failure of conservative voters to fall in line behind Mr. Limbaugh, Laura Ingraham and Sean Hannity, among others, reflects a deeper problem for the movement's leadership. With their inflexibility, grudge-holding and eagerness to evict heretics rather than seek converts, too many of conservatism's leaders sound like the custodians of a dwindling religious denomination or a politically correct English department at a fading liberal-arts college. 
 Or like yesterday's Democratic Party. The tribunes of the American right have fallen into the same bad habits that doomed their liberal rivals to years of political failure. 
 In spite of his record as a maverick, John McCain has become the presumptive nominee by running a classic Republican campaign, emphasizing strength abroad and limited government at home, with nods to his pro-life record. His opponents in the conservative movement, by contrast, have behaved like caricatures of liberals, emphasizing a host of small-bore litmus tests that matter more to Beltway insiders than to the right-winger on the street.
 Republican primary voters who turned to Mr. Limbaugh for their marching orders were asked to believe that Mr. McCain's consistently hawkish record -- on Iraq, Iran, the size of the military and any other issue you care to name -- mattered less to his standing as a conservative than his views on waterboarding. Or that his extensive record as a free-trader, a tax-cutter and an opponent of pork-barrel spending wasn't sufficient to qualify him as an economic conservative, because he had opposed a particular set of upper-bracket tax cuts in 2001. 
 Similarly, religious conservatives who listened to James Dobson were asked to believe that Mr. McCain's consistent pro-life voting record was less important than the impact his campaign-finance bill had on the National Right to Life Committee's ability to purchase issue ads on television 60 days before an election. Or that his consistent support for conservative judicial nominees, and his pledge to appoint Supreme Court justices in the mold of John Roberts and Sam Alito, mattered less than his involvement in the ''Gang of 14'' compromise on judicial filibusters. 
 Mike Huckabee signed a no-new-taxes pledge and campaigned on a (borderline-crackpot) tax plan to abolish the Internal Revenue Service and institute a national sales tax. Yet he found himself caricatured as a ''Christian socialist'' because he had raised gas taxes and cigarette taxes while governor of Arkansas. Merely acknowledging that some corporate chief executives might be overpaid and some working-class voters might be struggling was enough to get him dismissed by George Will as a ''radical'' who had supposedly repudiated ''free trade, low taxes, the essential legitimacy of America's corporate entities and the market system allocating wealth and opportunity.'' 
 The conservative critics of Mr. McCain and Mr. Huckabee weren't wrong on every issue. But in their zeal to read both candidates out of the conservative movement, often on the flimsiest of pretexts, the movement's leaders raised a standard of ideological purity that not even Ronald Reagan could have lived up to.
 This sort of purism would have been folly in Mr. Reagan's era, when conservatism was an insurgency with its greatest victories still ahead of it, and there were real liberal Republicans to slay along the way. It represents political suicide today. 
 Precisely because the right has won so many battles -- on taxes, welfare, crime and the cold war -- in the decades since it squared off against Gerald Ford and Jacob Javits, the greatest danger facing the contemporary Republican Party is ideological sclerosis, rather than insufficient orthodoxy. 
 Conservative voters seem to understand that. 
 Too bad their leaders don't. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); MEN (76%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



283 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-EXTRA: SELECTIONS FROM OPINION ONLINE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1003 words

 BODY:
CAMPAIGN STOPS If Mike Huckabee didn't exist, John McCain would have had to invent him. 
 First, Mr. Huckabee won the Iowa caucuses, sending Mitt Romney into a tailspin that gave Senator McCain the opening he needed to win New Hampshire. Mr. Huckabee then took enough votes from Mr. Romney in South Carolina and Florida to allow Senator McCain to win both states with scant support from conservative Republicans.
 By winning a string of Southern states on Feb. 5, Mr. Huckabee stole Mr. Romney's last chance to convince anti-McCain Republicans to rally behind his candidacy. ... 
 But from this point forward, the former Arkansas governor becomes even more valuable to Senator McCain. More than 60 percent of the voters on Feb. 5 registered their support for someone other than Senator McCain.
 In order to consolidate those conservative Republicans, Senator McCain will need to continue to shore up his ''foot soldier in the Reagan revolution'' message. But he also needs a platform from which to deliver that message and a foil against whom he can frame it. 
 Mr. Huckabee provides him with both.
 -- Dan Schnur, ''Long Live Huckabee!''
 THINK AGAIN This is not to say there are no rational, well-considered reasons for opposing Hillary Clinton's candidacy. You may dislike her policies. You may not be able to get past her vote to authorize the Iraq war. You may think her personality unsuited to the tasks of inspiring and uniting the American people. You may believe that if this is truly a change election, she is not the one to bring about real change.
 But some people and groups ... have brought criticism of Mrs. Clinton to what sportswriters call ''the next level,'' in this case to the level of personal vituperation unconnected to, and often unconcerned with, the facts. Their accusations are ''supported'' by innuendo, tortured logic, strained conclusions and photographs that are declared to tell their own story, but don't.
 -- Stanley Fish, ''All You Need Is Hate''
 Reader Comments:
 The dislike for Mrs. Clinton that you describe seems to be founded on the same emotion that happens in grade school playgrounds. ... Voting for a candidate is, in my view, an emotional reaction, not any more sophisticated than our grade school attractions and revulsions for other kids. 
 -- Posted by David Halperin
 The media have turned the process of choosing a president into a combination of ''American Idol'' and ''Survivor.'' It's all about what will best build an audience, not who will make the best president. Hillary-hate is just one part of debasing the political discussion.
 -- Posted by Ross Williams
 OUTPOSTS Barack Obama has made cynics wilt, and stirred the heart of long-dead politicos in places where Democrats haven't had a pulse in years. Cecil Andrus, the eagle-headed eminence of Idaho, a former governor and Democratic cabinet member, nearly lost his voice introducing Senator Obama in Boise. He recalled a time when he was a young lumberjack who drove down the Clearwater Valley to see Jack Kennedy speak in Lewiston, a day that changed his life. 
 ''I'm older now, some would suggest in the twilight of a mediocre political career,'' Andrus said. ''I, like you, can still be inspired. I can still hope.'' 
 This kicked off the second biggest political rally in Idaho history. And the first? That was when President Dwight Eisenhower came to visit. The other week his granddaughter, Susan Eisenhower, made a small bit of family history on her own. She said that if Obama is the nominee, ''this lifelong Republican will work to get him elected.''
 -- Timothy Egan,
 ''Obama: The Shock of the Red''
 Reader Comments:
 The most interesting story is not how well Obama is doing among Democrats, and how many ''closet Democrats'' would vote if he were running, but rather how many Republicans -- who are on average as intelligent as others and who love their families, too -- would cross party lines to cast their vote for Obama.
 -- Posted by Jamie Lawson
 If you want to understand Obama's broader appeal, talk to the voters of central, western and southern Illinois who helped him to become a United States senator. These are people who have no love lost for Chicago's Democratic machine. ... They voted for him because there was more to the man than labels.
 -- Posted by Jim Wisuri
 MIGRAINE My young adulthood was punctuated by the headaches with their auras and abdominal symptoms, nervous storms that came and went. And then, after I married the man I was deeply in love with when I was 27, I went to Paris on my honeymoon, and fell sick again. It began with a seizure: my left arm suddenly shot up into the air, and I was thrown back against the wall in an art gallery I was visiting. The seizure was momentary. The headache that followed went on and on for month after month. This time I searched for a cure. I was determined to battle my symptoms. I visited neurologist after neurologist, took innumerable drugs. Nothing helped. ... 
 Migraine remains a poorly understood illness. Although new techniques such as neuroimaging have helped isolate some of the circuits involved, brain pictures won't provide a solution. The syndrome is too various, too complex, too mixed up with external stimuli and the personality of the sufferer ... I have come to understand that my headaches are cyclical and that they play a part in my emotional economy.
 The truth is that separating neurological from psychiatric problems is often artificial, as is the old and stubborn distinction between psyche and soma. All human states, including anger, fear, sadness, and joy are of the body. They have neurobiological correlates, as researchers in the field would say. What we often think of as purely psychological, how we regard an illness, for example, is important. Our thoughts, attitudes, even our metaphors create physiological changes in us, which in the case of headaches can mean the difference between misery and managing.
 -- Siri Hustvedt, ''Arms at Rest''
 For more, nytimes.com/opinion. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (92%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); ROBERT W BEST (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



284 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Between Kentucky and Ohio, Hard Feelings Over a Rock's Place

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY. 
Online: Audio slide show on the Indian Head Rock at nytimes.com/danbarry

DATELINE: PORTSMOUTH, Ohio 

 BODY:
 An eight-ton rock rested for generations at the bottom of the Ohio River, minding its own business as time and currents passed. It favored neither Ohio to the north nor Kentucky to the south. It just -- was.
 Occasionally, when water levels dropped, the boulder would break the surface long enough to receive the chiseled tattoos of mildly daring people seeking remembrance. But it stopped playing peek-a-boo nearly a century ago, leaving only ephemera in its wake, including a sepia photograph of a well-dressed woman in a frilly hat, standing in the middle of the Ohio, on this rock.
 Now, because of one man's obsessive good intention, the fabled rock sits on old tires in the municipal garage of this river city, awaiting the outcome of a border dispute that goes something like this:
 Some Ohioans say the rock is an important piece of Portsmouth history and should be put on display. Some Kentuckians say the rock is an important piece of Kentucky, period, and should be returned. And some in both states say: I've been distracted by war, recession and a presidential campaign, so forgive me. But are we fighting over a rock? 
 Last month the Kentucky House of Representatives passed a resolution demanding the rock's return to its watery bed, with one of its members suggesting that a raiding party to Portsmouth might be in order. Not to be outdone, the Ohio House of Representatives is considering a resolution that asserts the rock's significance to Ohio, and its speaker has said he is ready to guard the boulder with his muzzle-loading shotgun.
 All this has stunned Steve Shaffer, 51, the earnest local historian who rediscovered the rock, raised the rock and anticipated a more enthusiastic celebration of the rock. But at least the rock is happy, he said. ''It loves to be the center of controversy.'' 
 The boulder sat almost certainly on the Kentucky side of the river, where the shoreline remains mostly undeveloped. This is why the rock became lodged deeper in the collective consciousness of the city on the other shore: Portsmouth, now another hurting Rust Belt city, but once a center of commerce, forging steel, making shoes. 
 In Portsmouth and beyond, the boulder became known as Indian Head Rock, because its bottom half bore a crude etching of a round head, with two dots for eyes, another dot for a nose, and a dash for a mouth; a kind of early Charlie Brown.
 The face spawned many theories of origin. An American Indian petroglyph. A river bandit's carving to mark where loot was stored. A boatman's crude measure to gauge fluctuating water levels. Or, as a 1908 newspaper article has it, the 1830s handiwork of a Portsmouth boy named John Book, who then grew up to fall at the Battle of Shiloh.
 Whenever the rock emerged from the water, people would boat or swim out to read the names and initials engraved on its sandstone hide, and maybe add their own to this honor roll of stone. H.W.H. Oct. 50, and E.D.C. Sep 1856, and Luther, and F. Kinney, and D. Ford. Several of these surnames remain familiar in Portsmouth today.
 But dam work in the early 20th century raised the water level several feet, and the celebrated boulder -- often featured in newspapers and on postcards -- vanished from view. And Portsmouth soon forgot its pet rock.
 In the late 1960s, though, an Ohio Valley schoolboy read of the Indian Head Rock in a musty book of local history, and he never forgot it. That was Steve Shaffer. He grew up, studied historical interpretation at Ohio University, developed an interest in prehistoric rock carvings, and quietly resolved to find the rock.
 He and some divers began the hunt in 2000, using clues in old newspaper accounts about the rock's location. He remained in the boat, though; he had lost 70 percent of his hearing to Meniere's disease, and diving could cause further damage. But when the expeditions of 2000 and 2001 found only abandoned cars and dumped refrigerators, Mr. Shaffer earned his diver's certification and joined the search -- at great risk to his hearing.
 The risk paid off. In September 2002, a diving buddy rose to the surface to exclaim: That's it! It's got initials all over it! Mr. Shaffer immediately went down to see for himself. There, amid the river's murk: the Indian Head Rock.
 Nearly every summer after that, Mr. Shaffer dove down to pay his respects to the rock. ''Just to check on it,'' he said.
 Then, late last summer, and almost on a whim, he and some diving friends resurrected the boulder with a harness and some barrels and air bags. They soon reported to Portsmouth's mayor, James Kalb, that they had something to show him -- and it's bigger than a breadbox. The stunned and grateful mayor thanked them, saying a piece of Portsmouth's past had been salvaged. 
 Not everyone saw it that way. Some said that once exposed to air the rock would disintegrate; it didn't. Some said that Mr. Shaffer needed a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers to remove anything from the river; he agreed, and has applied for one after the fact.
 Some said the rock should not have been disturbed because that Charlie Brown-like face was an American Indian petroglyph. In November a delegation from Kentucky -- with Dr. Fred E. Coy Jr., a prehistoric carvings expert, in tow -- visited the Portsmouth municipal garage and waited anxiously while the doctor conducted his examination. His expert opinion: ''I can't tell.''
 No matter. Jagged verbal stones continue to be tossed from either side of the river.
 Reginald Meeks, the Kentucky state representative who sponsored the resolution of condemnation, said Friday that law-enforcement officials were investigating what he described as the theft of a state antiquity. He said the rock should be returned to Kentucky, where state officials could examine it and decide its future.
 ''I tell you, they just played cowboy,'' Mr. Meeks said, voice rising. ''And came to Kentucky and stole this item.''
 But Todd Book, an Ohio legislator from Portsmouth who last week introduced the resolution praising the rock's resurrection, said Ohioans believed they were in the right.
 Mr. Book -- who likes to think he is related to the John Book who may have carved that face on the boulder -- said the story of the rock had already become an educational tool in Ohio. Fourth graders in the region are being asked to write essays on what the state should do with the rock, he said, while high school seniors are being asked to write position papers on the following: ''Why the rock should be Ohio's and not Kentucky's.''
 Who knows how this heavy matter will be resolved. For now, though, an eight-ton chunk of sandstone, riddled with the markings of the long-dead, sits in a municipal garage near some city trucks and a lawn mower. And every so often a well-intentioned man wearing a hearing aid stops by to check on it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Indian Head Rock in 1903, left, in the Ohio River, and today in a garage in Portsmouth, Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SOUTHERN OHIO MUSEUM, LEFT
ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
 The rock was found at the bottom of the Ohio River, between these two trees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); TIRES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); NATIVE AMERICANS (60%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (97%); KENTUCKY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



285 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: Army Buried Study Faulting Iraq Planning

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Army is accustomed to protecting classified information. But when it comes to the planning for the Iraq war, even an unclassified assessment can acquire the status of a state secret. 
 That is what happened to a detailed study of the planning for postwar Iraq prepared for the Army by the RAND Corporation, a federally financed center that conducts research for the military. 
 After 18 months of research, RAND submitted a report in the summer of 2005 called ''Rebuilding Iraq.'' RAND researchers provided an unclassified version of the report along with a secret one, hoping that its publication would contribute to the public debate on how to prepare for future conflicts. 
 But the study's wide-ranging critique of the White House, the Defense Department and other government agencies was a concern for Army generals, and the Army has sought to keep the report under lock and key. 
 A review of the lengthy report -- a draft of which was obtained by The New York Times -- shows that it identified problems with nearly every organization that had a role in planning the war. That assessment parallels the verdicts of numerous former officials and independent analysts. 
 The study chided President Bush -- and by implication Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who served as national security adviser when the war was planned -- as having failed to resolve differences among rival agencies. ''Throughout the planning process, tensions between the Defense Department and the State Department were never mediated by the president or his staff,'' it said. 
 The Defense Department led by Donald H. Rumsfeld was given the lead in overseeing the postwar period in Iraq despite its ''lack of capacity for civilian reconstruction planning and execution.'' 
 The State Department led by Colin L. Powell produced a voluminous study on the future of Iraq that identified important issues but was of ''uneven quality'' and ''did not constitute an actionable plan.'' 
 Gen. Tommy R. Franks, whose Central Command oversaw the military operation in Iraq, had a ''fundamental misunderstanding'' of what the military needed to do to secure postwar Iraq, the study said. 
 The regulations that govern the Army's relations with the Arroyo Center, the division of RAND that does research for the Army, stipulate that Army officials are to review reports in a timely fashion to ensure that classified information is not released. But the rules also note that the officials are not to ''censor'' analysis or prevent the dissemination of material critical of the Army. 
 The report on rebuilding Iraq was part of a seven-volume series by RAND on the lessons learned from the war. Asked why the report has not been published, Timothy Muchmore, a civilian Army official, said it had ventured too far from issues that directly involve the Army. 
 ''After carefully reviewing the findings and recommendations of the thorough RAND assessment, the Army determined that the analysts had in some cases taken a broader perspective on the early planning and operational phases of Operation Iraqi Freedom than desired or chartered by the Army,'' Mr. Muchmore said in a statement. ''Some of the RAND findings and recommendations were determined to be outside the purview of the Army and therefore of limited value in informing Army policies, programs and priorities.''
 Warren Robak, a RAND spokesman, declined to talk about the contents of the study but said the organization favored publication as a matter of general policy. 
 ''RAND always endeavors to publish as much of our research as possible, in either unclassified form or in classified form for those with the proper security clearances,'' Mr. Robak said in a statement. ''The multivolume series on lessons learned from Operation Iraqi Freedom is no exception. We also, however, have a longstanding practice of not discussing work that has not yet been published.''
 When RAND researchers began their work, nobody expected it to become a bone of contention with the Army. The idea was to review the lessons learned from the war, as RAND had done with previous conflicts. 
 The research was formally sponsored by Lt. Gen. James Lovelace, who was then the chief operations officer for the Army and now oversees Army forces in the Middle East, and Lt. Gen. David Melcher, who had responsibility for the Army's development and works now on budget issues. 
 A team of RAND researchers led by Nora Bensahel interviewed more than 50 civilian and military officials. As it became clear that decisions made by civilian officials had contributed to the Army's difficulties in Iraq, researchers delved into those policies as well. 
 The report was submitted at a time when the Bush administration was trying to rebut building criticism of the war in Iraq by stressing the progress Mr. Bush said was being made. The approach culminated in his announcement in November 2005 of his ''National Strategy for Victory in Iraq.''
 One serious problem the study described was the Bush administration's assumption that the reconstruction requirements would be minimal. There was also little incentive to challenge that assumption, the report said. 
 ''Building public support for any pre-emptive or preventative war is inherently challenging, since by definition, action is being taken before the threat has fully manifested itself,'' it said. ''Any serious discussion of the costs and challenges of reconstruction might undermine efforts to build that support.''
 Another problem described was a general lack of coordination. ''There was never an attempt to develop a single national plan that integrated humanitarian assistance, reconstruction, governance, infrastructure development and postwar security,'' the study said. 
 One result was that ''the U.S. government did not provide strategic policy guidance for postwar Iraq until shortly before major combat operations commenced.'' The study said that problem was compounded by General Franks, saying he took a narrow view of the military's responsibilities after Saddam Hussein was ousted and assumed that American civilian agencies would do much to rebuild the country. 
 General Franks's command, the study asserted, also assumed that Iraq's police and civil bureaucracy would stay on the job and had no fallback option in case that expectation proved wrong. When Baghdad fell, the study said, American forces there ''were largely mechanized or armored forces, well suited to waging major battles but not to restoring civil order. That task would have been better carried out, ideally, by military police or, acceptably, by light infantry trained in urban combat.''
 A ''shortfall'' in American troops was exacerbated when General Franks and Mr. Rumsfeld decided to stop the deployment of the Army's First Cavalry Division when other American forces entered Baghdad, the study said, a move that reflected their assessment that the war had been won. Problems persisted during the occupation. In the months that followed, the report said, there were ''significant tensions, most commonly between the civilian and military arms of the occupation.'' 
 The poor planning had ''the inadvertent effort of strengthening the insurgency,'' as Iraqis experienced a lack of security and essential services and focused on ''negative effects of the U.S. security presence.'' The American military's inability to seal Iraq's borders, a task the 2005 report warned was still not a priority, enabled foreign support for the insurgents to flow into Iraq. 
 In its recommendations, the study advocated an ''inverted planning process'' in which military planners would begin by deciding what resources were needed to maintain security after an adversary was defeated on the battlefield instead of treating the postwar phase as virtually an afterthought. More broadly, it suggested that there was a need to change the military's mind-set, which has long treated preparations to fight a major war as the top priority. The Army has recently moved to address this by drafting a new operations manual which casts the mission of stabilizing war-torn nations as equal in importance to winning a conventional war. 
 As the RAND study went through drafts, a chapter was written to emphasize the implications for the Army. An unclassified version was produced with numerous references to newspaper articles and books, an approach that was intended to facilitate publication.
 Senior Army officials were not happy with the results, and questioned whether all of the information in the study was truly unclassified and its use of newspaper reports. RAND researchers sent a rebuttal. That failed to persuade the Army to allow publication of the unclassified report, and the classified version was not widely disseminated throughout the Pentagon. 
 Neither General Lovelace nor General Melcher agreed to be interviewed for this article, but General Lovelace provided a statement through a spokesman at his headquarters in Kuwait. 
 ''The RAND study simply did not deliver a product that could have assisted the Army in paving a clear way ahead; it lacked the perspective needed for future planning by the U.S. Army,'' he said. 
 A Pentagon official who is familiar with the episode offered a different interpretation: Army officials were concerned that the report would strain relations with a powerful defense secretary and become caught up in the political debate over the war. ''The Army leaders who were involved did not want to take the chance of increasing the friction with Secretary Rumsfeld,'' said the official, who asked not to be identified because he did not want to alienate senior military officials. 
 The Army has asked that the entire RAND series be resubmitted and has said it will decide on its status thereafter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An assessment of the planning for Iraq's rebuilding was submitted in 2005 as criticism of the war was growing. President Bush countered such criticism that November with a speech on strategy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



286 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW NEW YORK THEATER BALLET; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Restoring Luster to Two 20th-Century Dance Legends

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

 BODY:
This year brings the centenaries of the births of two choreographers who loomed large in New York in the middle of the last century: Jose Limon, who died in 1972, and Antony Tudor, who died in 1987. Theirs are once-big names whose legacies seem to be shrinking. Plenty of today's dancegoers have never seen a single work by either. Special thanks, then, to the enterprising New York Theater Ballet last weekend for giving New York what I believe are the year's first staged revivals of either man's work.
 Limon's ''Mazurkas'' -- or rather, a suite that included all but four dances from that 1958 piece -- is just the kind of revival that for many of us not only extends our idea of Limon but also repositions him within our view of dance history. These mazurkas are danced to Chopin; Limon choreographed them after his company had enjoyed huge success in Poland, where he had visited the home of Chopin's youth. Limon gave real value to the dance details of the mazurka while accentuating them with a certain rigor (itself charming) that we today recognize as an old-style modern-dance accent. 
 Chopin has prompted choreography from Isadora Duncan through to Mark Morris. And of the piano mazurkas played here (by Ferdy Tumakaka), some are familiar from two of the most famous Chopin ballets: Michel Fokine's ''Sylphides'' and Jerome Robbins's ''Dances at a Gathering.'' Lo and behold here, in Limon's ''Mazurkas,'' the very gesture that is the most famous single moment in Robbins's subsequent ''Dances'': a man slowly placing the palm of his hand on the (presumably Polish) ground. Since Robbins was good at watching a range of other choreographers' work, we can't help guessing he saw Limon's dance and, magpielike, stored it up for further use.
 Three Tudor works followed. ''Little Improvisations'' dates from 1953, when Tudor was established in the United States; he created it at Jacob's Pillow. This male-female duet, to Schumann, employs simple props like a stool and a white shawl. The improvisations are the spontaneous-seeming games or devices the two people (here Rie Ogura and Mitchell Kilby) pursue, by turns, with each other, and whereby they pass through a great many different moods. Light though the overall tone of this duet is, it seems to take us through whole days and nights in the course of an adult relationship: very fresh and touching. 
 The other two derive from Tudor's first decade as a choreographer, the 1930s, when he was working in his native London. The program ended with ''Judgment of Paris'' (1938), a funny-bitter vignette to piano versions of well-known Kurt Weill songs about three aging floozies -- separately armed with a fan, a hoop and a feather boa -- taking weary turns to entertain a drunken customer who's falling asleep. (Tudor's female trio, which Robbins would often have seen, may have prompted another connection: the three ''You Gotta Have a Gimmick'' strippers in the 1959 musical ''Gypsy,'' which Robbins choreographed and directed.) 
 The deep cynicism of ''Judgment'' -- itself surely a riposte to another ''Judgment of Paris,'' along more traditional lines, presented only one month earlier in London by Frederick Ashton -- was handled by Tudor with dry economy. And he was surely drawing on a rich tradition of the British music hall. As Minerva, Diana Byer, the New York Theater Ballet's artistic director, brought off the tart's creakiness with the best kind of manufactured roguishness.
 The program's centerpiece was ''Jardin aux Lilas'' (1936), the most poetically eloquent ballet piece of Tudor's career. This is the fourth production of this work I have seen in 31 years, and it fascinates me that it seems different each time. Though the central story about Caroline, Her Lover, the Man She Must Marry and an Episode in His Past does not change, its wealth of dramatic detail always adds up to a new sum. 
 The company performed with the strict modernist objectivity that suits ''Jardin'' best. The movement says everything, the faces as little as possible. Often as the characters rush into a tableau or a striking position and then remain there motionless for more than a moment, Tudor creates the most powerful kind of paradox. They're not moving, but the music -- Chausson's late-Romantic ''Poeme'' for solo violin and orchestra, here on tape -- surges on like the inner emotion they cannot show. 
 On Friday night, as Caroline (Elena Zahlmann), quietly, briefly placed a hand on one side of her groin, I recognized the source of the gesture that Christopher Wheeldon had given Sara Mearns in the premiere of his ''Rococo Variations'' only the night before at New York City Ballet. With Mr. Wheeldon the gesture come out of nowhere and leads nowhere (even when it comes around a second time), but with Tudor it has the force of a revelation, like a key moment in a Bergman movie. 
 Touching the most intimate area of her body, in this context, is Caroline's passing hint of private trauma. I hope that the New York Theater Ballet can give us more Tudor and Limon before 2008 is out, but I would be happy to see this same program again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the New York Theater Ballet in Jose Limon's ''Suite From Mazurkas.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); DANCE (78%); THEATER (76%); FESTIVALS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (55%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



287 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Israel's Secret Success

BYLINE: By DANIEL GAVRON. 
Daniel Gavron is the author, most recently, of ''Holy Land Mosaic: Stories of Cooperation and Coexistence Between Israelis and Palestinians.''

DATELINE: Jerusalem 

 BODY:
 SOMETHING strange is happening to us Zionists in the 60th year of the state of Israel: we are repudiating our astonishing success. If in the 1880s (the start of Zionist settlement in what is now Israel) or in 1948 (the War of Independence) or even in 1967 (the Six-Day War) somebody had said that one day virtually the entire world, including all the Arab nations, would accept the existence of the State of Israel in 78 percent of the land of Israel, he would have been regarded as either idiotically optimistic or clinically insane. That, however, is where we are today. We have won, but we are refusing to accept the result. 
 It is as if the captain of a team winning the World Cup, a triumphant Olympic sprinter or a victor of Wimbledon were to say: ''No, no. There has been a mistake. I didn't win, I lost. My victory is an illusion.'' 
 While it is true that the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, talks about wiping Israel off the map, and he might be developing the technical means to do so, he has also said that he will agree to whatever agreement the Palestinians accept. The Lebanese Islamic group Hezbollah is utterly hostile, but it is now focused on events in its own country. 
 The Palestinian Hamas, which rules Gaza, refuses to recognize Israel, but even that movement seeks a long-term truce, which is tantamount to de facto recognition.
 Far more significantly, Fatah, the official Palestinian leadership, is negotiating peace with Israel. The member states of the Arab League, headed by Saudi Arabia, are on record as recognizing Israel within its pre-1967 borders. The world's only superpower, the United States, is solid in its support of Israel under any conceivable president. 
 The other four permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, the European Union and the overwhelming majority of the members of the United Nations all recognize pre-1967 Israel. 
 Wake up, fellow Israelis, it's over, we've won! What is more we've won a lot: more than 8,000 square miles out of the 10,400 square miles of the British Mandate for Palestine. And most Palestinians have accepted this territorially lopsided resolution of the 100-year-old dispute.
 Problems remain, of course. We Israelis have made a shambles of our Zionist enterprise by establishing settlements in the Palestinian territories we have occupied since 1967. Either we must disentangle ourselves from the Palestinians, or else create a structure for sharing the land with them. Many of the flagship Jewish settlements are so deep in Palestinian territory that no matter how the borders were to be redrawn, the settlements would be left inside Palestine.
 And the current talk of swapping ''settlement blocs'' in the West Bank for equivalent amounts of land in Israel near the border is unrealistic. For any ''two-state solution'' to work, we would need to conduct a complete withdrawal from the West Bank. Even so, the success of the Zionist enterprise would be astounding.
 If we cannot summon the determination it would take for a complete pullback, might the world, led by the United States, try to force us to withdraw? It might, but it probably won't, so we are most likely looking at some sort of single state, bi-national state or confederation. What matters is that we are acting from a position of strength, and we ought to be investing our energy and creativity in working out a long-term solution with the Palestinians that will be acceptable to both of us.
 What we should not be doing is what we are doing now: besieging and blacking out Gaza, killing and arresting dozens of Palestinians in the occupied territories every month, and constructing walls and fences between us and our neighbors.
 The most recent suicide bombing in southern Israel has predictably prompted calls for a new barrier along our 145-mile Egyptian border. This is unreasonable. Walls, as recent events have shown, can be breached. Palestinian terrorism against civilians has decreased over the past years, even though the barrier separating Israel and the West Bank has many large gaps. It is illogical to suppose that this incomplete wall is the factor that has reduced terrorism.
 The proposal to build an additional fence along the Egyptian border represents all that is wrong with our current policies. To cower behind a wall is to demonstrate again our loser mentality at a time when we have, in fact, won. The political settlement that the world is begging us to reach is the only way to ultimately stop the violence between us and the Palestinians.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHE VORLET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HAMAS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (74%); SPORTS (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); AL FATAH (73%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RUNNING (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); RELIGION (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (55%); HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



288 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Baby Essentials Succeed Where Pet Food Failed

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
IT sounds like a recipe from the Internet's cookbook for business disasters. Sell bulky commodity items at prices low enough to compete with grocery stores, and ship them free to consumers.
 The recipe vaporized businesses like Pets.com, Webvan and other giants of the dot-com bust, but now it is being revived, successfully, in at least one category, baby supplies.
 Thanks to improvements in shipping techniques and technologies, sites like Amazon.com and Diapers.com are selling huge quantities of diapers, baby wipes and formula, parenting's triple play. And although the companies are probably not making much money by doing so, they are bundling these staples with more profitable baby goods to fatten the bottom line. 
 It is a time-tested strategy of grocery stores, but for years e-tailers could not charge grocery store prices for diapers because shipping costs were too high. Now they can at least break even on such sales, said Marc Lore, chief executive of Diapers.com.
 ''When you're shipping diapers, wipes and formula, after shipping costs are taken out, there's really nothing left in the way of profits,'' said Mr. Lore, whose two children, for the record, are out of diapers. ''But you add in shampoo, lotions, feeding bottles and those things come out with 35 to 50 percent gross margins.''
 As the company expanded its product selection to include more of those profitable items, Mr. Lore said, gross profit margins jumped to about 13 percent, from 4.6 percent in 2005. About 45 percent of the site's orders now include something other than diapers, wipes and formula.
 The real trick to making the business work, though, is in how the company ships its less profitable goods. Rather than simply stuffing packages of diapers into a box that is roughly the right size for shipping, Diapers.com wrote software to analyze a customer's order and select from among 25 different boxes to avoid United Parcel Service's' charge for oversize shipping.
 That approach, Mr. Lore said, saves $2 to $3 in shipping costs on a typical $100 order. The two Diapers.com warehouses were selected according to U.P.S. shipping zones, so 45 percent of the site's customers can be upgraded to free overnight shipping. That, Mr. Lore added, is an important element, because parents typically wait until they are nearly out of diapers before they plan another shopping trip or Internet order.
 Revenues at Diapers.com, which is privately held and based in Montclair, N.J., jumped to $36 million last year from $11 million in 2006, Mr. Lore said, and are on pace to reach $84 million this year. The company recently raised $7 million from Bessemer Venture Partners, which backed Skype and BlueNile.com, among others.
 That sum will come in handy as the company competes more vigorously with Amazon, which began selling diapers four years ago. Tom Furphy, an Amazon vice president who oversees the company's groceries division, would not comment on the profitability of diapers, but he said the economics swung in Amazon's favor when it sold enough diapers to buy them by the truckload.
 Sales were further bolstered last year, when Amazon introduced its ''subscribe and save'' program, where customers receive regular shipments of goods at a 15 percent discount. ''It's an absolutely perfect fit for this,'' Mr. Furphy said.
 Customers who sign up for the product subscription program, which covers nearly 20,000 items, typically request multiple products. Mr. Furphy would not disclose the number of subscribers, but he said the program ''has been a runaway success for us.''
 As Diapers.com tries to compete with the e-commerce behemoth, it will also edge into the territory of an established leader of the online baby category, BabyCenter.com. The site, which is owned by Johnson & Johnson, earns money both through sales and advertising. It counts Diapers.com as one of its advertisers -- a logical choice, since BabyCenter's online store veers more toward upscale baby clothes and gear than supplies and consumable goods.
 But Mr. Lore, of Diapers.com, said he would slowly build out the site's product selection, to the point where it could in future years carry strollers and other gear. Tina Sharkey, BabyCenter's chairwoman, said she was not concerned. Last year, consumers spent just under $2 billion on baby supplies online, she said, quoting statistics from Forrester Research. ''There's a lot to go around, and BabyCenter's store is not everything,'' Ms. Sharkey said.
 If anything, the number of baby-related goods on the market is surging, as manufacturers try to capitalize on the growing tendency among consumers to spend lavishly on their new offspring. The origins of this trend are anyone's guess, but some analysts suggest that, as people have children later in life, they have more to spend on them. A cultural preoccupation with celebrity babies, some industry executives said, also helps.
 Such a trend could seem headed for oblivion in a shrinking economy, but Ms. Sharkey believes not. ''You might see softening demand for the giant purchases, but it won't affect this market because these are the joys,'' she said. ''People are much more aware now of how short a time they have with their children at these young ages.''
 That would bode well for the expansion hopes of Diapers.com, of course. In the meantime, though, Mr. Lore played down the broader implications of his company's success in selling otherwise unprofitable goods. Consumers should not, in other words, expect to see dog food appearing online with the words ''free shipping'' anywhere nearby.
 Fifty pounds of dog food, he said, yields less than $5 in gross profit before shipping costs, whereas 50 pounds of diapers would yield $30. ''So the improvements we've made would certainly help,'' Mr. Lore said, ''but fundamentally, the Pets.com business model doesn't work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Sinclair packing a box at the Diapers.com warehouse in Sparks, Nev. Sales may reach $84 million this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Marc Lore, chief of Diapers.com, keeps shipping costs in check. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HAWTHORNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); BABY PRODUCTS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (78%); PARENTING (77%); INFANTS MARKET (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); PET FOODS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (62%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: BESSEMER VENTURE PARTNERS (60%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); QUIDSI INC (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (52%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); UPS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (60%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (60%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (52%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); NEVADA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



289 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITYWIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: A Caribbean Corner of Brooklyn, Fighting to Survive

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Inside the red brick shoe box that is the Moore Street Retail Market lies a tiny patch of Latin America. The stalls of this Brooklyn public market on the edge of Williamsburg explode with Caribbean colors and sounds, as local shoppers buy everything from yams and peppers to maracas and mystic potions.
 What they can't buy is time.
 After winning a one-year reprieve from their landlord -- the City of New York -- the market's 13 merchants may find themselves forced out by June if the city moves forward with a plan to demolish the building and replace it with housing. Although the merchants have been offered buyouts and the option of relocating their shops to a strip of storefronts in a public housing development, they want to stay put. 
 The city's Economic Development Corporation, which oversees the market, said low rents and high overhead have resulted in a deficit of more than $1 million over the last four years. Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city agency, who refused interview requests, issued a brief statement saying that her agency was working with local elected officials to explore options. She would not say what those options were.
 ''I question their sincerity,'' scoffed Gerald Esposito, the district manager of Brooklyn's Community Board 1. ''They never gave us a chance to fix something they said was broken. There was never any consultation when the whole thing first broke. I think their options are figuring how to close it without creating a scandal.''
 Moore Street is one of four surviving public markets that were built during the Depression to get pushcarts off crowded and unsanitary streets. Now, the city appears to have come full circle, wanting to close Moore Street while it promotes a new generation of pushcarts that would take fresh vegetables to poor neighborhoods. The turn of events puzzled the merchants, who prided themselves on selling so many kinds of tropical fruits and roots that they put up posters detailing all the varieties.
 ''The city made us take them down a month ago,'' said Virgilio Rodriguez, the president of the merchants association. ''They just want to make everything impossible. They put us up against the wall to see if we lose hope and leave. But we will not.''
 The city's other markets have weathered good times and bad. While two of them --Arthur Avenue Market in the Bronx and the reborn Essex Street Market on the Lower East Side -- are now thriving -- East Harlem's Marqueta languishes. The two green sheds underneath the Park Avenue Metro North tracks are deserted and silent, except for the rumble of passing commuter trains. Decades of pipe dreams and political intrigue have turned it into a ghost town, where only six vendors occupy a tiny corner where few customers venture.
 Suzanne Wasserman, director of the Gotham Center for New York City History, said all of the city's markets have struggled since the beginning. 
 ''There is something weird about New York City's relation to peddlers,'' she said. ''Few of these markets have been unqualified successes. They have no connection to the street. Their architecture is unremarkable, and so is the inside. I think they are really just attractive to the kind of population that is in transition.''
 Sonia Santana and her mother, Isabel Escamilla, finally made their transition from factory hands to Moore Street merchants five years ago. They sell herbs and handicrafts from their native Mexico, catering to a growing -- and homesick -- population. 
 They pay $400 a month for their cramped stall, where plastic boxes filled with herbs reach the ceiling. ''We feel safe here, not like if we were just two women by themselves in our own store,'' Ms. Santana said. ''We have families, so we can open when we can. We keep our own hours and do not have to depend on a boss. We are our own bosses.''
 Some of the merchants have been in the market for more than 20 years, taking over from the Jewish and Italian merchants who were the local retail pioneers. The newcomers came from Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic, joined later by others from Mexico and Ecuador. 
 The largest vendors preside over stalls stuffed with slabs of dried fish, tins of crackers stacked like bricks, and crates overflowing with thick, chunky roots and tubers. Dull metal pots and pans dangle above, and stubby, colorful candles are tucked into tiny nooks.
 Along the narrow aisles, people can browse shelves holding wooden plaques decorated with scenes ranging from Puerto Rico's towns to declarations of political independence. The strains of bachata music drift from a stall that sells records, while a botanica offers potions and prayer cards for every saint, illness or misfortune imaginable. 
 Signs taped to ledges along several empty stalls warn ''No Loitering.'' Manuel Rivera sat anyway, chatting with some regulars who visited his record store. He moved here two years ago, after briefly retiring from another local record store.
 ''I went crazy,'' he joked. ''I almost couldn't look at my wife. When you're used to working, nothing can get you out of that habit.''
 Well, almost nothing. He said the city called each of the merchants individually last year, offering them $20 a square foot to leave. Mr. Rivera and the others refused. The way they figure it, all those years of paying taxes or staying put while the neighborhood around them crashed and rebounded entitled them to some consideration.
 ''After you get to a certain age, you have this piece of city land to be your refuge,'' he said. ''Now the city wants to take us out? This was built by our taxes. They say there's a deficit? Well, fix the deficit.''
 Several local elected officials have offered to negotiate with the city to cover the deficit and are working to line up financing for redesign studies and business assistance that would enable the merchants to stay. This being Brooklyn, the political skirmish is suitably streetwise. 
 Matthew Trapasso, the policy director for State Senator Martin Malave Dilan, said his boss was not opposed to housing, but only wanted to make sure that the market was upgraded and the merchants allowed to return.
 ''E.D.C. didn't want to do that,'' Mr. Trapasso recalled. '' 'Fine,' we said. 'We are going to do whatever we can to make sure you don't do anything. We'll leave it as is and find the money to subsidize it.' ''
 It helps that the Moore Street Market sits in a district with some well-placed leaders: its congresswoman, Nydia M. Velasquez, presides over the Small Business Committee, and its assemblyman, Vito J. Lopez, heads the Housing Committee. 
 The elected officials will meet with the city in the coming weeks to see what agreement can be reached. Mr. Lopez worries that the city will still insist on moving the merchants to a far-off strip of storefronts. And he cannot understand why four stalls have been allowed to remain vacant at the market, despite inquiries from other vendors.
 ''When you want to evict tenants from a building, you know what a landlord does,'' Mr. Lopez said. ''You don't rent the vacant ones to get everybody out. But we would probably have a third less deficit if it was fully occupied.''
 Ms. Velasquez came up with $235,000 to study how to streamline operations, while Mr. Lopez has proposed that the independent Brooklyn Economic Development Corporation be named to manage the market and advise the merchants.
 Joan Bartolomeo, president of the Brooklyn group, said that the market could be run more efficiently and that new revenues could come from renting out the space for after-hours events. None of that, she said, seemed to have been explored by the city.
 ''Everybody assumes that if you say housing, everyone is going to jump on the bandwagon,'' she said. ''But you can't have houses without retail. This is a way to put into practice what we preach: preserve local business, provide local goods and keep the resources in the community.''
 Beyond the buying and selling of fruits and vegetables, the fleeting exchanges and timeworn rituals at the market bind a community. There is something wistful that descends upon Gina Urban when she visits the market after a short drive from her home in Queens.
 ''My father used to plant these on his farm in Puerto Rico,'' she said, recalling a life she left behind 54 years ago. ''He planted malanga and yams. I see this, and I am on the farm again.''
 She picked through a crate of cassava that rested on a gray concrete floor. 
 ''I used to pull them up from the ground myself.''
 She smiled, betraying a heart that was miles and decades away on a small island.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Merchants at the Moore Street Retail Market in Brooklyn, which includes stalls full of produce from Latin America, left, may be forced out in June. The city would like to replace the building with housing. (pg. B1)
 A spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, which oversees the Moore Street Retail Market, says the market has high overhead and is running a $1 million deficit. (pg. B5) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); TRAINS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



290 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 265 words

 BODY:
COMPANY EARNINGS Some big names will post earnings this week, including Hasbro and Loews (Monday); Credit Suisse, General Motors, Marsh & McLennan, Molson Coors, Omnicom, Qwest Communications, Sanofi-Aventis and Schering-Plough (Tuesday); Belo, Coca-Cola, Deere and Jones Apparel (Wednesday); Clear Channel, Comcast, Daimler, Goodyear Tire & Rubber and UBS (Thursday); and Campbell Soup and Hormel Foods (Friday). 
 ECONOMIC INDICATORS It is a fairly light week for economic news. The highlights are retail sales for January and business inventories for December (Wednesday) and the trade deficit for December (Thursday). Also being released this week are the import price index for January, industrial production and capacity utilization for January and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for February (Friday).
 LAWYER TO BE SENTENCEDWilliam S. Lerach, below, the securities lawyer who pleaded guilty to paying clients of his old firm Milberg Weiss to file lawsuits, will be sentenced in Los Angeles (Monday).
 A.I.G. TRIAL IN FINAL STAGE Closing arguments will begin in Hartford in the fraud trial of five executives accused of helping the American International Group mislead investors (Monday).
 WIRELESS CONFERENCE Companies will show off the latest cellphone and wireless technology at the GSMA Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain (Monday through Thursday).
 HEARING ON THE ECONOMYBen S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, will testify on the economy before the Senate Banking Committee (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); LAWYERS (73%); TESTIMONY (72%); TIRES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%); SENTENCING (67%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); RETAIL SALES (55%); IMPORT PRICES (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%)

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (91%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (72%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); CENTURYLINK INC (58%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (91%); SANF (BIT) (91%); SAN (PAR) (91%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (91%); GT (SWX) (72%); GT (NASDAQ) (72%); GT (BRU) (72%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%); KO (NYSE) (58%); TAP (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); CTL (NYSE) (58%); OMC (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); MMC (NYSE) (58%); MHM (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (72%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (72%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (72%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (72%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (72%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (58%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (58%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); HENRY PAULSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (51%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



291 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Hope Later

 BODY:
The Bush administration was too slow to wake up to the foreclosure crisis. Now it's asking Congress for more time to show results through Hope Now, a mortgage industry alliance created at the urging of the Treasury Department. Given the administration's poor record on the issue, lawmakers should not wait to pass their own foreclosure prevention plans. Most important is amending bankruptcy law to allow defaulting borrowers to modify the terms of their mortgages under court protection. 
 Last year, in mid-August -- as defaults were soaring, home prices falling and mortgage securities skidding -- President Bush said his advisers believed housing was headed for a ''soft landing.'' In November, with conditions worsening, Mr. Bush admitted that the housing market was ''challenged,'' but said that all would be well, ''particularly if we keep taxes low.'' 
 In December, with no end to the housing bust in sight, the administration championed a five-year interest-rate freeze -- starting in 2008. It is intended for many subprime borrowers whose payments would otherwise rise sharply. Under the plan, Hope Now would voluntarily implement the freeze and other loan relief. 
 Broad-based loan modifications are a good idea, but the plan is flawed in its scope. And since it is voluntary, if it doesn't work, there is nothing the administration can do. An estimated 3.5 million loan defaults are expected between now and mid-2010, when the last of the loans potentially eligible for the freeze are set to have rate increases. But according to several analyses, only an estimated 250,000 borrowers are likely to benefit from the plan's interest-rate freeze. 
 It's up to the White House to prove the critics wrong. Yet, at a recent Senate Banking Committee hearing, Robert Steel, an under secretary of the Treasury, told lawmakers that the results of the Hope Now modification efforts would be reported on a monthly basis, with a one-month lag, beginning in February and March. Translated: We're not likely to have a good handle on the effort until the second quarter of 2008, even as subprime foreclosures surge and defaults on higher-quality mortgages begin to rise. 
 In the meantime, Hope Now reported last week that members of its alliance had helped approximately 545,000 subprime borrowers in 2007. Of those, however, nearly three-quarters were not rate freezes or other modifications to make the loan affordable over time. Rather, they were ''repayment plans,'' generally some kind of temporary break on interest or principal that allows the borrower to catch up on overdue payments. No less an authority than the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Sheila Bair, recently told the Senate Banking Committee that ''temporary repayment plans will not provide stability to the borrower, investors, or the market.'' 
 There has been nothing, really, from the White House to inspire confidence in the administration's ability or willingness to tackle the foreclosure crisis in a meaningful way. But there is enough information to conclude that waiting for the White House to show results would be unwise. Congress must advance its own solutions -- like bankruptcy reform -- and the administration has to quit resisting efforts other than its own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SHEILA BAIR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



292 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Drops Route 440 From Toll Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: EAST BRUNSWICK, N.J. 

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine said Sunday that he would drop his proposal to turn a portion of Route 440 in Middlesex County into a toll road as part of his multibillion dollar package to restructure the state's wobbly finances. 
 Mr. Corzine made his comments before a packed crowd of more than 700 people at East Brunswick High School in Middlesex County, which would have been most affected by the new toll road. ''Since it's not central to the plan, I don't think we will be moving forward with that aspect,'' he said.
 Mr. Corzine's decision to drop Route 440 from his plan was not expected to have much of an impact on his overall package: reducing the state's $32 billion debt by half and financing transportation projects with higher tolls, while also tightening the ways Trenton can borrow and spend.
 Under his proposal, tolls on the New Jersey Turnpike, Garden State Parkway and Atlantic City Expressway would be increased by 50 percent four times in 12 years, starting in 2010, and also would be adjusted for inflation. Mr. Corzine has an impressive list of supporters for his plan. But all 49 Republican state legislators pledge to oppose it, and some Democrats have voiced qualms. 
 ''I think the governor showed a lot of humility coming here today, but I think it's time to figure out how to rebuild his plan by focusing on spending cuts,'' said State Senator Barbara Buono, a Democrat who is the chairwoman of the budget committee, and attended the town hall meeting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); GOVERNORS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



293 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Threatens to End Oil Exports to U.S. in Exxon Feud

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez threatened Sunday to halt oil exports to the United States if the oil giant Exxon Mobil succeeds in freezing billions of dollars of foreign petroleum assets controlled by Venezuela. 
 The warning ratchets up a fierce legal dispute between Venezuela and Exxon after Mr. Chavez's move to exert greater state control over the nation's oil industry last year. Rather than submitting to Venezuela's terms, Exxon withdrew from a major production venture, intensifying the feud.
 ''The bandits of Exxon Mobil will never rob us again,'' Mr. Chavez said in comments broadcast Sunday on his weekly television program. He accused Exxon, one of the largest publicly traded oil companies, and the United States of mounting a conspiracy to destabilize Venezuela.
 ''I speak to the American empire, because that's the master,'' Mr. Chavez said. ''Continue, and you will see that we won't send one drop of oil to the empire of the United States.'' Referring to Exxon, he said, ''They are imperialist bandits, white-collar criminals, corruptors of governments, overthrowers of governments.''
 Venezuela's government has been seething since Exxon recently won orders in British, Dutch and American courts freezing as much as $12 billion in Venezuelan oil assets abroad -- refineries and other oil-related infrastructure that Venezuela owns. Venezuela vowed to overturn the decisions before arbitration over Exxon's attempts to win compensation for its nationalized oil project.
 ''We have no comment,'' said Margaret Ross, a spokeswoman for Exxon, based in Irving, Tex., after Mr. Chavez spoke.
 Mr. Chavez has repeatedly threatened to cut off oil supplies to the United States, but has never done so.
 In fact, despite a deterioration in political relations, the United States remains Venezuela's top trading partner. Venezuela is the fourth-largest supplier of crude oil to the United States, sending 1.2 million barrels a day to American refineries, according to the Energy Information Administration in Washington.
 The dispute with Exxon is focusing attention on Petroleos de Venezuela, the national oil company, which Mr. Chavez has purged of his political opponents and reconfigured to finance social welfare projects. The company faces steeper borrowing costs after the price of its bonds plunged by 3 percent on Friday, to 66.75 cents on the dollar.
 Declining oil production at Petroleos de Venezuela has allowed other countries in the OPEC oil cartel, notably Saudi Arabia, to gain a greater share of the market in meeting the expanding global demand for oil. The problems at Petroleos de Venezuela, a major revenue source for Mr. Chavez, are occurring amid growing discontent over food shortages and galloping inflation.
 The tension with Exxon was just one of Mr. Chavez's subjects on Sunday. He also accused the United States and neighboring Colombia of bringing paramilitary squads to Venezuela to traffic in weapons and cocaine. And he said his political opponents were plotting to ''reconvert Venezuela into a North American colony.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (96%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CARTELS (88%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (98%); PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (52%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (98%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (98%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



294 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Ties Europe's Safety to Afghanistan

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and NICHOLAS KULISH

DATELINE: MUNICH 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates issued a stark warning on Sunday to Europeans, saying that their safety from terrorist attack by Islamic extremists was directly linked to NATO's success in stabilizing Afghanistan.
 After weeks of calling on NATO governments to send more combat troops and trainers to Afghanistan, Mr. Gates made his case directly to Europe's inhabitants in a keynote address to an international security conference here. Mr. Gates summoned the memory of Sept. 11, 2001, to say that Europe was at risk of becoming victim to attacks of the same enormity.
 ''I am concerned that many people on this continent may not comprehend the magnitude of the direct threat to European security,'' Mr. Gates said. ''For the United States, Sept. 11 was a galvanizing event, one that opened the American public's eyes to dangers from distant lands.'' 
 In a hall filled with government officials, lawmakers and policy analysts from around the world, Mr. Gates added: ''So now I would like to add my voice to those of many allied leaders on the Continent and speak directly to the people of Europe. The threat posed by violent Islamic extremism is real, and it is not going to go away.''
 Mr. Gates listed terrorist attacks in Madrid, London, Istanbul, Amsterdam, Paris and Glasgow and said other terrorist plots, some complex, had been disrupted before they could be carried out in Belgium, Germany and Denmark and in airliners over the Atlantic.
 ''Just in the last few weeks, Spanish authorities arrested 14 Islamic extremists in Barcelona suspected of planning suicide attacks against public transport systems in Spain, Portugal, France, Germany and Britain,'' he said.
 ''I am not indulging in scare tactics,'' Mr. Gates stated. ''Nor am I exaggerating either the threat or inflating the consequences of a victory for the extremists. Nor am I saying that the extremists are 10 feet tall.''
 He said the task facing Europe, the United States and allies around the world ''is to fracture and destroy this movement in its infancy -- to permanently reduce its ability to strike globally and catastrophically, while deflating its ideology.''
 The ''best opportunity as an alliance to do this,'' he said, ''is in Afghanistan.''
 August Hanning, the state secretary at the German Interior Ministry and an outspoken voice in the German government on the threat of terrorism, welcomed Mr. Gates's address because it ''made clear the connection between domestic security in Germany and the deployment in Afghanistan.'' He said that Al Qaeda and associated groups in the Afghan-Pakistani border region continued to ''strengthen their operational capabilities in order to carry forward attacks.''
 In his speech, Mr. Gates said that while many NATO governments ''appreciate the importance of the Afghan mission, European public support for it is weak. 
 Many Europeans question the relevance of our actions and doubt whether the mission is worth the lives of their sons and daughters.''
 But they ''forget at our peril that the ambition of Islamic extremists is limited only by opportunity,'' he added.
 Mr. Gates said some terrorist cells in Europe are financed and receive inspiration from abroad. ''Many who have been arrested have had direct connections to Al Qaeda,'' he said. ''Some have met with top leaders or attended training camps abroad. Some are connected to Al Qaeda in Iraq.'' He was referring to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the largely local insurgent group that American intelligence officials say is foreign-led. 
 He said the suspected Barcelona terrorist cell appears to have links with a terrorist network commanded by extremists in Pakistan thought to be affiliated with the Taliban, the former rulers of Afghanistan, and Al Qaeda. Those extremists are also accused by the authorities of being behind the assassination in December of Benazir Bhutto, the former Pakistani prime minister.
 Mr. Gates said that in Afghanistan ''the really hard question the alliance faces is whether the whole of our effort is adding up to less than the sum of its parts.''
 Concerning specific policy initiatives, Mr. Gates called for a common set of training standards for every soldier and civilian deploying into Afghanistan, and for the appointment of a high-level European official to serve as civilian administrator to coordinate international assistance.
 Echoing the difficulties the United States faced in trying to suppress insurgents and terrorists in Iraq after the swift invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein, Mr. Gates said NATO must coordinate military operations and civilian reconstruction better and ''put aside any theology that attempts clearly to divide civilian and military operations,'' adding, ''It is unrealistic.''
 The Munich Conference on Security Policy was meeting here with the theme, ''The World in Disarray -- Shifting Powers, Lack of Strategies.''
 In contrast to the contentious tone struck last year by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, the Russian representative to the conference this year, First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei B. Ivanov, made his nation's recent record of economic success the focus of his largely positive address, pointing out that Russia's economy had grown by 80 percent in the last nine years.
 He highlighted cooperation between the United States and Russia, including in fighting nuclear terrorism. But, he added, ''some states strive to exploit antiterrorist activities as a pretext to achieving their own geopolitical and economic goals,'' and had what he called ''a double-standard attitude toward Russia.''
 During a lively question-and-answer period after the speech by Mr. Gates, Alexey Ostrovskiy, a member of the Russian Parliament, challenged the United States record in arming anti-Soviet fighters in Afghanistan -- many of whom became Islamic extremists and members of the Taliban or Al Qaeda.
 Mr. Gates responded that ''If we bear a particular responsibility for the role of the mujahedeen and Al Qaeda growing up in Afghanistan, it has more to do with our abandonment of the country in 1989 than our assistance of it in 1979.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); ARRESTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (74%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (54%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%) EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); FRANCE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); DENMARK (79%); PORTUGAL (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



295 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE EMPIRE ZONE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Bruno's Activities Give Pause to Ethics School

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
The federal investigation of the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, is weighing on a Connecticut school dedicated to teaching ethics. 
 How's that? 
 Wright Investors' Service, an investment firm that had employed Mr. Bruno, below, for more than a decade, is largely owned by the School for Ethical Education. John Winthrop Wright, the former chairman and chief executive of Wright Investors' Service, founded the school and left his Wright holdings to it upon his death in 1996. The school has no students of its own but teaches ethics courses to students at institutions ranging from elementary schools to colleges. 
 Both the school and Wright are based in Milford, Conn., and continue to be closely intertwined. Not only does the school own roughly 40 percent of Wright, but the chairman of the school's board, Peter Donovan, is also the chairman and chief executive of Wright, and other Wright executives also serve on the school's board. 
 Some of the non-Wright trustees said they were concerned that Wright had been enmeshed in a federal investigation of Mr. Bruno's business activities. Wright and Mr. Bruno severed their relationship in December after The New York Times disclosed that several labor union locals that were close to Mr. Bruno and had lobbied Senate Republicans had been using Wright to manage their pension money. Federal investigators have subpoenaed records from several of the pension funds. 
 ''Our big push is to tell people they need role models,'' said Jacky Durrell, one of the non-Wright trustees, adding, ''You can't tell people how to act if you aren't following the rules.''
 In a statement, Wright Investors' Services said that the company had ''steadfastly supported S.E.E.'s mission of promoting the advancement of ethical behavior'' and ''we also practice what we preach.''
 The statement concluded, ''Any suggestion that the events of recent months represent a departure from those standards or compromise our ability to maintain a close working relationship with the school in support of its principles is without foundation.''
 Mr. Bruno reiterated last week that he had done nothing wrong. 
 Another non-Wright trustee, Steve Monahan, said that he was prepared to raise the issue of Mr. Bruno's job at a meeting late last year ''but Donovan pre-empted me by saying Bruno had already resigned.''
 Mickey Herbert, another trustee who is not employed by Wright, described the discussion from a recent board meeting: ''What we were told was that they didn't believe the school or Wright had done anything wrong.''
 Asked whether Mr. Donovan should step down from his role at the school, Mr. Monahan said: ''I think as chairman of the school, he does a very good job. I think it's a reasonable question to put on the table, but I see no reason to consider it at this time.''
 Plan for a Free College Education
 A boon for Syracuse parents is tucked away in the bowels of the budget. 
 Under a pilot program, the Spitzer administration is proposing that Syracuse high school graduates be eligible for free tuition to any State University of New York or City University of New York college. The proposal will require the approval of the Legislature and is expected to cost a couple of million dollars annually within a few years. 
 Would the program expand beyond Syracuse? While the Syracuse effort is linked to a program by the private Say Yes to Education foundation, Manuel Rivera, the state's deputy secretary for education, said, ''The success of the demonstration will determine future expansion of the program.''
 A Debate Over Parole Rates
 Republican lawmakers are blaming the Spitzer administration for an increase in the parole rates of violent criminals. 
 ''This administration philosophically seems to be very soft on criminals and doing everything and anything they can to get prisoners who have committed murder out of prison,'' the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, said last week. 
 Mr. Bruno and other Senate Republicans have introduced legislation that would make it tougher for the state's most violent prisoners to get out on parole.
 Thirteen percent of first-time violent offenders were paroled last year, up from 3 percent in 2005, according to the parole board. 
 Errol Cockfield, a spokesman for Gov. Eliot Spitzer, pointed out that most of the appointees on the parole board were Republicans. Of the 17 members on the board, 5 were appointed by Mr. Spitzer.
 ''The overwhelming majority of appointees now serving on the state parole board were appointed by former Governor George Pataki and confirmed by the Republican-led Senate,'' Mr. Cockfield said. 
 In January 2006, about 1,000 inmates filed a class-action lawsuit against the Pataki administration, claiming that they were unfairly denied parole. The case is ongoing. TRYMAINE LEE
 Making Businesses Accountable
 In recent weeks, the Spitzer administration has sent letters to 180 businesses threatening to rescind their tax credits under the Empire Zone program because they had not created enough jobs. 
 The administration also made it tougher to earn future credits under the program, which tries to encourage economic growth.
 The steps are aimed at shoring up a program that has cost the state billions of dollars, and not always with appreciable results. Warning letters were sent to 2,500 businesses last year, and the latest round has only begun. 
 ''Some of those 180 companies have already given up the ghost and told us they're not going to contest it,'' said Patrick Foye, above, the downstate chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation. 
 ''The news here is that there will be for the first time ever companies decertified under the Empire Zone program,'' he said.
 Kenneth Adams, president of the Business Council of New York State, said he supported efforts to tweak the program, but added, ''There should be less emphasis on looking back, nickel-and-diming companies.''
 But the move did draw praise from a frequent administration critic. 
 ''For all the shouting of reform, this is finally the beginning of reforming something that really matters,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SUBPOENAS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (51%)

COMPANY: WRIGHT INVESTORS' SERVICE HOLDINGS INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



296 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-13
 Army Stifled Critical Study On Plans for Postwar Iraq
 The Army has kept under lock and key an unclassified version of a detailed study of the planning for postwar Iraq, prepared by the Rand Corporation, that amounts to a wide-ranging critique of the White House and the Defense Department. A1 
 At least 23 people were killed by a car bomb north of Baghdad at a checkpoint run by Iraqi police and citizen patrols. A8 
 A military panel sentenced an Army Ranger to 10 years in prison for killing an unarmed Iraqi detainee and planting a rifle to mislead investigators. A10 
 Kenya's Middle Class Stung
 The most crucial election-related conflict in Kenya may be the struggle between the mobs in the slums and the middle class that separates the nation from other countries in Africa consumed by ethnic conflict. A1 
 U.S. Scholars, Middle East Oil
 Education City in Qatar is the largest enclave of American universities abroad and an island of open debate in what remains an Islamic monarchy. It provides a glimpse into the range of American expertise in demand overseas. A1 
 President of East Timor Shot
 Jose Ramos-Horta, the president of East Timor and a Nobel Peace Prize winner, was shot in the stomach during an attack on his home by renegade soldiers. A13 
 Darfur Refugees Flood Chad
 Thousands of refugees fleeing Arab militias and Sudanese Army bombs in Darfur have flooded into Chad, the United Nations said. A3 
 More Strikes on Gaza Urged
 Israeli cabinet ministers urged sharper military action in Gaza after a rocket attack by Palestinian militants seriously wounded two children. A11 
 Gates's Stark Alert to Europe
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Europeans' safety from terrorist attacks by Islamic extremists was linked to NATO's success in Afghanistan. A6 
 Chavez May Halt Oil Exports
 President Hugo Chavez threatened to halt oil exports to the United States if Exxon Mobil freezes petroleum assets controlled by Venezuela. A13 
 NATIONALA14-19 
 Death Penalty Sought For Six Detainees
 Military prosecutors have decided to seek the death penalty for six Guantanamo detainees who are to be charged with central roles in the Sept. 11 terror attacks, government officials who had been briefed on the charges said. A1 
 Clinton Campaign Regroups
 As Senator Barack Obama tallied his fourth decisive victory in a state nominating contest this weekend, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton replaced her campaign manager and longtime aide, in a move seen as a way to reassure supporters that her campaign was regrouping. A1 
 Groups Alienated by McCain
 Senator John McCain, was poised this weekend to become the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, but he was reminded that many Republicans had not climbed aboard his band wagon, opting instead for former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas. A17 
 President George Bush broke his silence on the 2008 presidential race, giving his imprimatur to Mr. McCain as a ''true conservative,'' who nonetheless has ''got some convincing to do'' to persuade fellow Republicans of his bona fides with the right. A17 
 Families Adopting in Vietnam
 A group of adoptive parents, who have been caught in diplomatic wrangling between the American and Vietnamese governments over concerns about corruption in the adoption process, began a campaign to press the State Department to let them bring their babies to the United States. A14 
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 New H.I.V Pathway
 Government scientists have discovered a new way that H.I.V. attacks human cells, an advance that could provide fresh avenues for the development of additional therapies to stop AIDS. A15 
 Astronauts Set for Spacewalk
 NASA officials said astronauts aboard the International Space Station were ready for a critical spacewalk that had been delayed by the illness of a German astronaut. A19 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-5
 New Cuts in Spitzer Plan To Offset Dim Economy
 Only three weeks after presenting his budget, Gov. Eliot Spitzer intends to pare back increases in Medicaid reimbursements to hospitals and nursing homes, among other things, to offset a projected $384 million drop in state revenues. While the changes are a tiny fraction of the overall budget, they are a sign of how shifting economic forecasts are causing havoc with the state's fiscal planning.B1 
 Toll Dodging Adds Up
 The operators of E-ZPass in New York estimate that about $13 million is lost each year to toll dodgers, whose aim is to save as little as 35 cents by trying to beat the tolls at the area's bridges, tunnels and highways.B1 
 Merchants Losing Home?
 The 13 merchants at the Caribbean-themed Moore Street Retail Market on the edge of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, may find themselves forced out by June if the city moves forward with a plan to demolish the building and replace it with housing. B1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-10 
 Trading Scandal Widens
 Police investigating the trading scandal at Societe Generale are moving toward a theory that its rogue trader, whom the bank blames for a $7.2 billion loss, might not have acted alone, as previously claimed. C1 
 Microsoft's Deal Seeker
 Christopher Liddell, a former banker from New Zealand, is the behind-the-scenes architect of Microsoft's hostile bid for Yahoo, an audacious attempt by a technology company to take control of a competitor. C1 
 The Ubiquitous Camera
 Off-air reporters and portable video cameras have changed the dynamic of this year's presidential campaign, making every unscripted moment available for all to see. C1 
 Just Can't Quit Facebook
 Some users have discovered that it is nearly impossible to remove themselves and their information entirely from Facebook, setting off a fresh round of concern over the popular social network's use of personal data. C1 
 Business DigestC2 
 ARTSE1-10
 50th Annual Grammy Awards
 Amy Winehouse picked up five Grammys while the rap star Kanye West won best rap album. Both of them, however, were left on the sidelines for the night's final prize, album of the year, which went to the jazz mainstay Herbie Hancock.E1
 OBITUARIESB6
 Roy Scheider
 A stage actor who became one of the leading figures in the American film renaissance of the 1970s, he was 75. B6
 EDITORIALA20-21
 Editorials: Hope later; unworthy nominees; how many more warnings?; Eduardo Porter on Nafta.
 Columns: William Kristol and Paul Krugman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); CAPITAL CRIMES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); MILITARY OFFENSES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); SENTENCING (75%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (75%); PRISONS (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); SLUM DWELLINGS (68%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); RELIGION (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (63%); POLICE FORCES (56%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (53%); HUGO CHAVEZ (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); SUDAN (92%); KENYA (92%); QATAR (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



297 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Quickly Reduces Revenue Projections, Citing the Gloomy Economy

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
Only three weeks after presenting its budget, Gov. Eliot Spitzer's administration is lowering projections for tax revenue by $384 million, because of increasingly ominous reports of distress on Wall Street and in the nation's economy. 
 To keep the budget in balance, the governor is proposing several new spending cuts, including further paring back increases in Medicaid reimbursements to hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers, and dipping into the state's environmental protection fund more than had been expected.
 While the changes represent a small fraction of New York's $124 billion budget, they are a sign of how rapidly shifting economic forecasts are causing havoc with the state's fiscal planning. It is rare for a governor to second-guess his own budget, especially so soon after releasing it. 
 The new projections may also be an indicator of long-term problems; the state is anticipating annual tax revenue to be $500 million less than expected for several succeeding years. 
 The governor's budget director, Laura L. Anglin, said she did not know whether the administration might have to cut back further later in the year. 
 ''I cannot rule that out,'' Ms. Anglin said on Saturday. ''If things continue to deteriorate, it will become part of the budget discussions again. We hope that's not the case.''
 The governor is already taking criticism from advocacy groups that say he cut too much with his first effort, and from fiscal conservatives who have called for even deeper cuts than Mr. Spitzer is now proposing. Some prominent labor unions in industries affected by the cuts have taken steps to bolster their alliances with Senate Republicans. 
 Explaining how the state's numbers could shift so quickly, Ms. Anglin said the budget released by the Spitzer administration on Jan. 22 was based on an economic forecast from the end of last year. In recent weeks, several forecasters have said that the nation's economy is in recession, though Mr. Spitzer is not ready to go that far. 
 ''Obviously the national economic situation has continued to deteriorate; the risk of a recession has increased,'' Ms. Anglin said. 
 The new plan calls for state spending to increase by 4.8 percent -- still more than one and a half times the rate of inflation -- instead of 5 percent. The governor and the Legislature will negotiate a final budget over the next several weeks, aiming for a March 31 deadline.
 The primary causes for the new estimate are shrinking projections for Wall Street bonuses because of losses on subprime mortgages and lower-than-expected revenue from capital gains taxes on real estate transactions. 
 The Spitzer administration had projected that Wall Street bonuses would recover by next year and grow by 8.6 percent. Its new projection is for bonuses to remain flat next year after falling 5.5 percent this year. 
 ''You keep wanting to put one foot on the ground,'' Ms. Anglin said, ''but it's hard to tell where you're going to land.''
 Besides smaller increases in Medicaid spending, the administration will propose making health insurers finance some programs the state had planned to pay for, like vaccinations against cervical cancer and anti-obesity efforts. 
 The state is making up $147 million of the shortfall because lower Medicaid enrollments are leading it to reduce estimates of spending for some health programs. 
 The governor also plans to take about $25 million that was set aside for environmental programs and use it instead for general spending. 
 Mr. Spitzer's original budget had a deficit of $4.4 billion. He proposed to close it by reducing increases in health care spending by $1 billion and paring a planned rise in education aid. 
 Teachers' and health care workers' unions had already vowed to fight for more money in their sectors. 
 The latest changes will include some creative steps, like prepaying $88 million to the state pension fund so it will count in the current fiscal year instead of the next one, which begins April 1. 
 Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative group, said last week that the governor should propose a spending increase closer to the rate of inflation, projected at 2.7 percent for the state. 
 Among other things, he said, the administration should be cutting jobs, instead of adding them, as is still the plan. ''Government should be forced to live well within its means, especially at a time like this,'' Mr. McMahon said.
 Ms. Anglin portrayed the revisions as the only viable course.
 ''It was really the right decision to put forward such major revisions, but it's not normally done,'' she said. ''People will be surprised. It was the right thing to do to protect the state's finances.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Eliot Spitzer, at Grand Central Terminal on Feb. 1. To compensate for shrinking revenue, he plans new spending cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MEDICAID (76%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (76%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (76%); NURSING HOMES (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INFLATION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CONSERVATISM (64%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



298 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Path to Victory

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
Last summer, George W. Bush told The Washington Examiner's Bill Sammon that Hillary Clinton would probably be the 2008 Democratic nominee. ''She's got a national presence and this is becoming a national primary,'' he said. ''And therefore the person with the national presence who has got the ability to raise enough money to sustain an effort in a multiplicity of sites has got a good chance to be nominated.''
 This seemed a reasonable judgment at the time. It may still turn out to be right. But today Barack Obama is neck-and-neck with Clinton in the national polls -- and he's shown a greater ability to raise money. After his strong showing over the weekend, it is Obama who now has the clearer path to his party's nomination. 
 I'll avoid a false precision in the numbers that follow. There are minor differences among news organizations in projecting delegate allocations in states that have already voted, and in counting preferences among the 796 elected officials and party leaders -- the ''superdelegates'' -- who vote according to their choice, not voters' instruction. 
 Obama leads Clinton by roughly 70 delegates among about 2,000 chosen so far in primaries and caucuses. (There are still about 1,200 delegates outstanding.) Among the superdelegates, Clinton is ahead by about 100 superdelegates among the 300 who have declared a preference (though any of them can change their mind, so a count of them now is in large measure premature). All in all, Clinton seems to be slightly ahead. 
 She won't be for long. On Tuesday Obama is expected to prevail in Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia. So around 9 p.m. Tuesday night, television networks probably will be announcing, for the first time, that Barack Obama holds an unambiguous delegate lead. 
 His lead in votes -- which is already in the neighborhood of 200,000 -- will probably have widened. And Obama should be able to increase those delegate and popular vote totals on Feb. 19, when Wisconsin and Hawaii go to the polls.
 Next comes March 4, when Ohio, Texas, Vermont and Rhode Island vote. Clinton's campaign believes Ohio and Texas will constitute her firewall. Will it hold?
 I suspect not. Obama will have momentum. He will likely have more money than Clinton for advertising. His ballot performance among Hispanics and working-class whites has generally been improving as the primary season has gone on. He intends to push a more robust economic message that could help him further narrow the gap among lower-income voters. And an interesting regression analysis at the Daily Kos Web site (poblano.dailykos.com) of the determinants of the Democratic vote so far, applied to the demographics of the Ohio electorate, suggests that Obama has a better chance than is generally realized in Ohio.
 As for Texas, look for a couple of possible endorsements to help Obama there. If John Edwards campaigns for Obama in East Texas, and Bill Richardson defies the pleas of Bill Clinton and travels across the border from New Mexico to help out, Obama could prevail.
 If Obama wins Ohio and Texas -- or even wins one -- he'll be in good shape. He should take Wyoming on March 8 and Mississippi on March 11. Then there's over a month until the next contest, in Pennsylvania on April 22. That stretch of time could be key. It could be the moment for many of the uncommitted superdelegates to begin ratifying the choice of Democratic primary voters, and to start moving en masse to Obama.
 Many of these superdelegates are elected officials. They tend to care about winning in November. The polls suggest Obama matches up better with John McCain. And the polls are merely echoing the judgment of almost every Democratic elected official from a competitive district or a swing state with whom I've spoken. They would virtually all prefer Obama at the top of the ticket.
 All of this will move the superdelegates to Obama -- perhaps as early as just after March 4, or perhaps not until April 22, or perhaps not even until the last match-up on June 7. But the superdelegates will want to avoid a situation in which they could be in the position of seeming to override the popular vote, or of resolving a bitter battle over whether and how to count votes from Florida and Michigan, at the convention.
 And there are, as a final resort, two super-superdelegates (so to speak) who would have the clout to help Democrats achieve closure: Al Gore and Nancy Pelosi. 
 If they stepped forward at the right time, they would earn the gratitude of their party. And they might also enjoy contemplating a derivative effect of their good deed -- the fall of the house of Clinton. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERDELEGATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



299 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: As Voting Pattern Emerges, So Does Need to Break It

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama scored impressive weekend victories over Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in several Democratic presidential nomination contests. He is well positioned for this week's voting in Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia. But neither candidate has achieved what is most important for deciding their battle. That is breaking the pattern of voter preferences that has structured their competition so far.
 That pattern -- driven by demographics and electoral mechanics -- has proven more powerful than momentum or the candidates' policy messages. In the quest for delegates over the next three months, they will be wrestling the pattern as much as each other. 
 The pattern stems in part from what is sometimes called identity politics -- not surprising in a race with two history-making candidates.
 Mrs. Clinton, of New York, who would be the first woman to be president, has dominated among women; according to exit polls, they have consistently constituted 55 percent or more of the Democratic electorate. Mr. Obama, of Illinois, who would be the first black president, has dominated among blacks by even more lopsided margins. 
 But with the exception of a few states like South Carolina and Georgia, where blacks represented a majority and Mr. Obama won, they have represented a far smaller share of the vote.
 Mrs. Clinton, drawing on memories of prosperity during her husband's presidency, has held steady advantages among Hispanics, older voters and blue-collar whites. Mr. Obama's inspirational ''Yes We Can'' message has produced an edge among young people, independents, college graduates and higher-income Democrats.
 Those disparate collections can to some degree be distinguished using labels -- Mrs. Clinton's as more moderate, Mr. Obama's as more liberal. But ''the ideological differences clearly seem to be driven by demographics,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster.
 Those differences have helped define another important element. 
 While Mrs. Clinton has performed best in primaries, like New Hampshire and California, Mr. Obama has excelled in caucuses that turn on organizational prowess, from the kickoff event in Iowa to the Washington and Nebraska contests over the weekend.
 That is partly because Mr. Obama invested more heavily in grass-roots organization in his bid to overcome Mrs. Clinton's establishment advantages. Moreover, the time and information required for caucus participation attract demographic elites drawn to the Illinois senator in the first place -- his ''Starbucks Democrats,'' rather than Mrs. Clinton's ''Dunkin' Donuts Democrats,'' as Chris Lehane, a former aide to Al Gore, puts it.
 Thus it is easy to project coming areas of strength for each candidate. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Obama can expect to dominate in heavily black Washington, D.C., and he's favored in Maryland, which has an above-average proportion of both blacks and college graduates. 
 Mrs. Clinton has a better chance in Virginia, where working class Nascar fans remain an important constituency.
 On Feb. 19, Mr. Obama will be favored in Hawaii, because he grew up there and because it is a caucus state. Mrs. Clinton has a better shot in Wisconsin, where the black vote is relatively small and the blue-collar vote relatively large.
 But Mrs. Clinton's most promising venues lie in the big March 4 primaries. One is Ohio, an emblem of Midwest economic change; the other is Texas, where Hispanics represent a dominant force.
 Mr. Obama may somewhat offset her strengths with more money for advertising and rules in both states that allow independents to vote. Independents may not vote, however, in Pennsylvania's April 22 primary -- another Clinton target.
 Either candidate, however, may yet forge a new pattern. 
 ''Barack has to drive an economic message that connects with the individual hopes and fears of voters,'' said Carter Eskew, a Democratic strategist. Mrs. Clinton aimed a dose of inspiration at upscale voters with her lyrical remarks the night of the Feb. 5 primaries -- and has quieted the attacks by former President Bill Clinton that so offended Democratic elites.
 One factor muted thus far could also change the pattern: momentum. Tad Devine, a top aide for candidates from Walter Mondale to John Kerry, calls this slower-paced part of the Democratic race Stage 4. The first stage was 2007 fund-raising; the second was the kickoff contests in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina; the third was the 22-state contest on Feb. 5.
 The front-loaded calendar jammed the first three phases so closely together as to blunt momentum from one state to the next. But ''momentum can be the driving force in this stage,'' Mr. Devine said, since voters have more time to absorb who is moving ahead and who is lagging. 
 If he is right, Mr. Obama could gain an edge beginning this week.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); WOMEN (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (80%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (80%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (80%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); AL GORE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008



300 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Viewed From All Angles, Who Won?

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
When the Writers Guild of America held its annual awards ceremony Saturday night in Manhattan, it felt more like a victory celebration. So after a long and bitter strike, the writers won, right?
 On points, yes, probably. On principle, certainly. From a practical perspective, maybe not so much.
 True, the writers guild was able to wrest a major concession from management -- winning a piece of digital revenues -- the kind of victory that has largely eluded organized labor in the past few years. 
 Tony Gilroy, the writer and director of ''Michael Clayton,'' who was there as a nominee, argued that, while the strike had been punishing, it was clearly necessary.
 ''As writers and directors, we have our nose in the tent for real for the first time,'' he said. ''There are question marks about how it will be implemented, but there is no one who can argue that the strike was not necessary. We would never be in the position we are without it. Anybody who says the strike was a bad idea is dead wrong.''
 It is equally true, however, that the strike was bad for writers in the short term. The delays caused by the strike prompted the studios to ask themselves a fundamental question about the need to finance all manner of pilots for a traditional upfront extravaganza followed by a traditional introduction in the fall. That system, fairly unchanged through the years, has historically been lucrative for writers. 
 Emboldened by the strike, the studios severed existing contracts with writers, successfully turned over more of their prime-time schedules to reality programming and vowed to hold the line on filming new shows for next season. 
 Some 70 development deals in which writers were essentially paid lucrative stipends to come up with shows that might not ever be broadcast are now gone, and they will not be coming back any time soon. 
 The events are likely to bring at least a few lean years to the workaday writers. With less spending on pilots, established writers will be in the hunt because they lost their cushy deals on the lot. With increased incursion from all forms of reality programs, finding work that pays the bills, never mind the residuals, is going to be a slog.
 Will the studios stick to their new vows of restraint? Perhaps there's an instructive comparison with another business run by big egos in search of talent, Major League Baseball. 
 Every few years, the baseball owners announce that there's a new austerity in the air and that they won't overspend on players. But just before spring training starts, they get nervous and suddenly a pitcher like Ted Lilly -- the baseball equivalent of an assistant gag writer on ''Two and a Half Men'' -- gets something like $10 million. 
 One studio executive interviewed Monday (who, like every studio executive, declined to be identified while saying anything negative about the people he will be dealing with everyday) said that the writer's short-term pain wasn't necessary, that they could have had a deal without the acrimonious strike. 
 That may not quite track. By taking a reflexively hard line in the negotiations from the start, the studios more or less invited the strike, calculating that the writers, a disparate group with varying interests, would quickly splinter. They guessed wrong: despite constant suggestions that cracks were appearing, the center held.
 One of the longer-term consequences of the strike that studios will now have to deal with is a group that is remarkably united -- from the show runners in possession of lucrative deals to mostly unemployed writers fighting to get into the business. 
 ''I think that you would have to say that the strike was a qualified success, if for no other reason that they kept solidarity among the show runners and the rank and file,'' said Jonathan Handel, an entertainment lawyer at the TroyGould firm who formerly worked for the guild.
 Still, the question remains for the writers: will the piece of future digital revenues they captured be worth the grief endured these past few months? It won't be in the near future. Advertisers are so much less valuable on the Web, and the real money remains in so-called legacy media. 
 The negotiating committee for the writers is proud that they were able to establish a percentage payment on the distributor's gross, but that win will be largely symbolic unless there is a fundamental change in the economics of digital distribution.
 Clearly, the studios think there is some kind of future there. Buried in the small type Monday was an announcement by Viacom's studio Paramount that it will create a division to develop programming for wireless devices (i.e., iPhone). It's hard to picture a situation where little programs for tiny screens will kick up the kind of network salaries and residuals that have been the mother's milk of writers for decades. 
 Still, the writers got their foot in the door, a much better outcome than many observers believed possible. And that means the writers are now joined at the hip with the producers in finding out just what the future holds. Perhaps at the next awards show, they should toast their new partners and pray it works out for both of them. 
 What about viewers -- the real victims of the strike, deprived of new episodes of ''Heroes''? There was some keening on the message boards, but mostly, the public shrugged and worked on their ''Guitar Hero'' chops.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reality show staples include, clockwise from top left: ''How to Look Good Naked,'' ''The Biggest Loser,'' ''Make Me a Supermodel,'' ''American Gladiators,'' ''Dance War'' and ''The Moment of Truth.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT AND CENTER, KELSEY MCNEAL/FOX
RIGHT, TRAE PATTON/NBC) (pg.C1)
A scene from ''The Amazing Race,'' a reality show and ratings winner on CBS. During the writers' guild strike, networks have relied even more heavily on such programming. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT, LIFETIME
CENTER, TRAE PATTON/NBC
 RIGHT, RUSS FLATT/BRAVO) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



301 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: City Hospitals Reinvent Role Of Emergency

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: The New York City emergency room 

 BODY:
overcrowded, exhausting, sometimes terrifying -- has long been a legendary circle of medical hell.
 But now hospitals -- public and private, large and small -- are spending hundreds of millions of dollars renovating, rebuilding and expanding their emergency rooms. They are dividing them into treatment areas for the sickest patients with the most dire injuries and using quieter corners for the growing number of patients using emergency rooms for routine medical care.
 And an increasing number are taking steps to bring civility and even hospitality to the emergency room, in part because, for all their turmoil, they remain vital points of entry for paying patients whose eventual admission accounts for needed revenue.
 Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, the city's busiest emergency department, has in recent years built two new emergency rooms, one of them for children, and renovated another. In August, the hospital announced that it was adding another 7,000 square feet, more doctors and nurses, and ''comfort rounds,'' which feature customer service representatives who offer patients extra pillows, free snacks and child care. 
 At St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan, officials recently spent $7.6 million to create what they call a ''fast-track'' option to speed the treatment of patients with more minor injuries. St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center recently embarked on a $15 million project to double its capacity at the Roosevelt campus.
 And the city's public hospital system is projecting that it will have spent more than $100 million by 2011 to upgrade emergency rooms at six of its 11 hospitals. 
 ''The amount of emergency room use in New York has always been a source of criticism,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, an industry group. ''But you can't say to eight million people, 'Don't do this anymore.' ''
 The familiar root causes of the crisis for the city's emergency rooms have only worsened: the flood of uninsured patients, rapid population growth in the neighborhoods where the centers are located, a crippling shortage of primary care doctors and bankrupt hospitals closing their emergency rooms.
 The situation is not exclusive to New York. Hospitals in cities from Sacramento to Minneapolis to Boston are starting their own efforts to meet the problem, with the national rate of emergency room visits soaring.
 Governors and lawmakers from a number of states are also trying to find ways to get capital construction dollars for bigger hospitals and emergency rooms, even as the nation's hospitals brace for potentially stinging cuts to their financial mainstays, Medicare and Medicaid, contained in President Bush's 2008 proposed budget.
 But the efforts in New York City -- often termed the nation's hospital capital -- are striking, as officials rush to keep pace with demand, squeezing capital out of overstretched budgets and appealing for more private donations. 
 ''We are all seeing enormous pressure at the emergency room door,'' said Alan D. Aviles, president of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, which operates 11 public hospitals with two million visits to the emergency rooms annually. 
 Mr. Aviles said that even with the planned upgrades for the city hospitals, he feared ''we still cannot meet all the need.''
 All told, emergency rooms in New York City handled more than 3.6 million visits in 2005, an increase of 6 percent over 2000. The rising number of visits -- the citywide data from 2005 are the most recent available -- have been strangling some of the hardest-struck hospitals.
 More recent hospital records from St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center on Manhattan's West Side, for example, show that there were 105,000 visits to the emergency room last year, up from 59,000 in 1999. ''I can't foresee how we can keep up that pace,'' said Dr. Dan E. Wiener, chairman of the hospital's department of emergency medicine. ''The overcrowding is just there -- it's the background noise of life. Some days things are O.K., it's tolerable. Some days it's over the top.''
 Many New York hospitals are also contending with yet another new influx of patients who normally would have sought care at nearby hospitals that have closed, merged with other hospitals or will soon close. A state commission in 2006 ordered almost two dozen mergers or closings in an effort to shrink the state's enormous hospital industry, because beds at some of them were going unused. 
 Other hospitals across the nation, sustaining big losses in their emergency rooms and depleting their charity care funding for the uninsured, have shut down their emergency rooms or even closed completely. 
 And so the city's remaining hospitals are milking every inch of coveted real estate to expand and rebuild their emergency rooms. For instance, New York Downtown Hospital, a small hospital near Wall Street that handled more than 1,500 injured victims on Sept. 11, recently spent about $25 million to build a new emergency room with twice the capacity.
 Beyond expansions and renovations, hospitals across the city are also trying to reorganize their emergency departments, with the intention of turning the mayhem into, at minimum, a more organized kind of chaos. 
 To that end, some hospitals have added private rooms with flat-screen televisions; others have actually retained art therapists to entertain and comfort the children waiting in their rooms.
 Some hospitals now have ''navigators,'' staff members assigned solely to the uninsured to handle the cumbersome paperwork required for registering them. And an increasing number have also instituted the fast-track systems, which Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan -- now constructing an emergency room that will be twice the size of its current one -- is calling ''fast-food McDonald's-type in-and-out service.''
 The fast-track systems divide emergency rooms into areas for patients with minor injuries for those with more acute problems, so that someone with a sprained ankle is not lumped together with a patient who is bleeding profusely from the head. 
 But if one were to identify a hospital living out every aspect of the reimagining of the troubled New York emergency room, it might well be at Montefiore, which statistics show has the city's busiest emergency department. Visits there have increased by 30 percent in the last five years to more than 211,000 in 2007. That has meant that the emergency room often operates between 50 and 100 percent above capacity, with stretchers filling almost every square foot of space on most days. 
 ''We are overwhelmed without a doubt,'' said Dr. Peter Semczuk, vice president for clinical services at Montefiore.
 So far, Montefiore has added 25 new beds, for a total of 100, falling far short of what is needed. Still, some of the work going on is actually aimed at what might seem a counterproductive goal: increasing the flow of patients to the emergency room. 
 While hospitals typically lose money on emergency room visits, largely because of the rising numbers of uninsured patients, the insured patients who do come through the same doors and who wind up being admitted for surgery and other care are their economic lifeblood. In fact, a majority of inpatient admissions at New York hospitals come through the emergency room.
 So, many hospitals are now aggressively marketing the virtues of their remodeled and expanded emergency rooms. Some are conducting expensive direct mail campaigns; others are beginning advertising campaigns trumpeting their faster service and new amenities like private rooms, telephones and flat-screen televisions. 
 ''It's about putting yourself in the patient's shoes,'' said Carleigh Gustafson, director of emergency nursing at Lenox Hill Hospital, which recently expanded its emergency room and added individual flat-screen televisions and telephones for patients. ''It's making sure that we're communicating very well -- it's both an art and a skill.''
 Dr. Semczuk of Montefiore said, ''We want to become the Ritz-Carlton of emergency rooms.''
 Montefiore may not feel much like a five-star hotel, but patients there said they were pleasantly surprised by some of the new services, which include a child care specialist who plays with the children, handing out stickers, apple juice, Teddy Grahams, Play-Doh and coloring books. 
 An art therapist is on call as well, helping children express their fears in drawings and paintings, and the child care staff also engages in ''medical play,'' helping to explain procedures to young patients and sending them off to see the doctor with a ''day surgery buddy doll'' to accompany them for potentially scary treatments.
 ''I've been here before for 12 or 13 hours, and I couldn't even get a cup of water,'' said Edwin Flores, a construction worker who recently took his 9-year-old son, who was having severe abdominal pain, to the emergency room. ''This surprised the heck out of me.''
 As Mr. Flores and his family were served lunch from the hospital cafeteria in a private room, one of Montefiore's customer service representatives, Enid Diaz, stopped by.
 ''Hello! I'm Mrs. Diaz,'' she said. ''Can I help you with something?''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 12 about efforts by hospitals in New York City to expand their emergency rooms misidentified the hospital system with the busiest emergency department, according to the New York State Department of Health, which verifies figures provided by hospitals. It is NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, not Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Gregg Husk, right, and Chuck Labins, the project manager, at Beth Israel Medical Center's new emergency room.
 Briana Hertz, left, a care specialist at Montefiore Medical Center, playing with Lelahni and Natahjja Quinn, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGENCY ROOMS (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); CITIES (74%); MEDICAID (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); MEDICARE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (67%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



302 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ARTICLES ON THESE DEVELOPMENTS ARE AT NYTIMES.COM/BUSINESS.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: ON THE WEB

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
TRIAN PARTNERS, the hedge fund run by the investor Nelson Peltz, said on Monday that it was trying to gain control of the board at the hamburger chain Wendy's International, which it is trying to buy. (REUTERS) HASBRO, THE TOY COMPANY, posted a better-than-expected quarterly profit, in part because of strong demand for its Transformers, Nerf and Furreal Friends product lines. (REUTERS) 
 THE LOEWS CORPORATION, the conglomerate run by the Tisch family, said that fourth-quarter profit fell 31 percent, hurt by subprime investment losses and weaker-than-expected results in its insurance, tobacco and drilling businesses. (REUTERS) 
 ECONOMY
 EXPORTING EDUCATION The United States is exporting one of its great strengths -- its deep infrastructure for higher education and basic research. In doing so, does it risk losing its competitive edge? DANIEL ALTMAN
 blogs.iht.com
 MEDIA
 DON'T HOLD YOUR BREATH With the writers' strike appearing close to a conclusion, viewers want to know when they will see new episodes of their favorite shows. The answer is, a while. BRIAN STELTER nytimes.com/tvdecoder
 ABC'S FALL LINEUP Granting renewals to four new series and five returning hits, ABC has ordered new episodes of nine prime-time television shows for fall 2008. BRIAN STELTER
 nytimes.com/tvdecoder
 TECHNOLOGY
 THE RENTAL STORE NEXT DOOR Another idea from the first dot-com boom -- renting items from your neighbors -- is making a comeback. BRAD STONE
 nytimes.com/bits
 NET CALLING FALLS SHORT Internet telephony remains an underdeveloped niche technology, industry experts say, citing the market clout of large phone companies, a labyrinth of new technical standards and consumer indifference. KEVIN J. O'BRIEN nytimes.com/technology
 SMALL BUSINESS
 THE SECOND WORK LIFE It's not a retirement job. It's an ''encore career,'' says Marc Freedman, a social entrepreneur. MARCI ALBOHER
 nytimes.com/smallbusiness

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (77%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (67%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (64%); COMPUTER TELEPHONY (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (54%)

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (83%); HASBRO INC (72%)

TICKER: L (NYSE) (83%); HAS (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (83%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (83%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (83%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



303 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Report Warns of Threat to Campus Reactors

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The risks of a terrorist attack on a nuclear reactor on a college campus, and the potential consequences, have been underestimated by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Congressional auditors say in a report.
 The report, by the Government Accountability Office, said the commission had overruled expert contractors who thought differently, and misrepresented what the contractors had said. 
 Security requirements at the reactors have changed little since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, according to the auditors, even though many of the reactors still run on enriched uranium, which terrorists could convert into an atomic bomb. In contrast, the rules for civilian power plants have become much stricter, the report said. 
 An unclassified version of the audit found uncertainty ''about whether N.R.C.'s assessment reflects the full range of security risks and potential consequences of an attack on a research reactor.'' The audit said that the rules ''may need immediate strengthening'' and that more parts of research reactors were probably vulnerable to damage than the commission assumed. 
 Research reactors typically are less than 1 percent as powerful as civilian power reactors, and they usually do not operate under pressure, so there is less energy available to spread radioactive material in case of attack or accident. They are used for scientific research, training and making medical isotopes.
 But while power reactors are surrounded by fences and guard towers, the research reactors are often in buildings on densely populated campuses. Some have added concrete Jersey barriers to protect against truck bombs, and better doors. But the ''first responders'' who would arrive if intruders set off an alarm are most likely to be the unarmed campus police officers, the audit said.
 Government nuclear experts brought in by the commission paint a grimmer picture, the report said. 
 The nuclear commission's estimates of vulnerability are ''not supported'' by experts from Sandia National Laboratories, Idaho National Laboratory and the Department of Homeland Security, the auditors said. The Idaho experts said that a terrorist attack could have ''significant consequences'' and a ''high socio-economic impact,'' the auditors said.
 The nature of the outside experts' concern is not made clear in the unclassified version of the report, but truck bombs or other bombings have been issues in the past. An article in Science and Global Security in 2003 pointed out that several research reactors had been destroyed by accidental runaway reactions, and that controls were in place to prevent those, though they could be disabled. The nuclear cores of research reactors are usually much more accessible than the cores of power reactors, the article pointed out, often sitting at the bottom of an open tank. Debris thrown into the tanks could clog cooling channels, it said.
 The Nuclear Regulatory Commission asserted that it was the Government Accountability Office, not the commission, that had misrepresented the position of the outside experts, and made ''unsupported assumptions.''
 Representative Christopher Shays, a Connecticut Republican who requested the audit, said of the commission: ''They're making assumptions and wishing the threats go away. It's very disconcerting to me.''
 ''They don't want to burden the licensees,'' Mr. Shays said.
 The commission licenses 33 research reactors, 26 of them to universities and colleges. 
 But Luis A. Reyes, the commission's executive director, said in a letter of rebuttal to the accountability office that the auditors did not cite any intelligence information to show that terrorists had the ''highly sophisticated methods and skills'' that the report said were within their capabilities. The audit ''lacks a sound technical basis,'' Mr. Reyes wrote.
 The G.A.O. ''failed to acknowledge key scientific facts,'' he added. His response, attached to the unclassified version of the report, which is to be released soon, did not contain any specifics.
 David Lochbaum, a reactor expert at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a private group that often raises safety concerns, said steps designed to prevent thefts of fuel from nuclear reactors might have raised the potential for radioactive releases.
 To prevent theft, Mr. Lochbaum said, reactor operators have started putting highly irradiated fuel, which is much more radioactive, into their cores, making it impractical for a terrorist to carry fuel away. But that raises the amount of radioactive material available for release. 
 For 30 years, the Energy Department has been working toward designing new cores for the reactors that would do the same work with low-enriched fuel. In some cases it has completed the designs, but no money is available to convert the reactors; in others, it is still working on the designs.
 Research reactors are a threatened species. With a long drought in the construction of power reactors, many universities have shrunk or closed their nuclear engineering departments. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Luis A. Reyes, left, and Representative Christopher Shays. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); AUDITS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); CAMPUS SECURITY (71%)

COMPANY: SANDIA NATIONAL LABORATORIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



304 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America And Chevron Set To Join Dow Index

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average is adding two companies, the Bank of America Corporation and the Chevron Corporation, the first change to the blue-chip stock index in almost four years, Dow Jones & Company said Monday. 
 Two others, the Altria Group and Honeywell International, will be dropped from the 30-member index, the oldest and single most-watched gauge of stock performance in the world. The changes will take effect next Tuesday, Dow Jones said.
 The planned spinoff of Philip Morris International from Altria, which will leave it a purely domestic tobacco company, prompted the change, Marcus W. Brauchli, managing editor of The Wall Street Journal, said.
 Editors of The Journal determine the composition of the Dow index, which is 111 years old. The Journal is published by Dow Jones, a unit of the News Corporation. The change is the first since April 2004, when three stocks were replaced.
 Adding Chevron makes sense because the Dow was light on energy at 5 percent, compared with the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index at 12.5 percent, said Chris Orndorff, a managing principal at Payden & Rygel Investment Management in Los Angeles. Similarly, Mr. Orndorff said, adding Bank of America was appropriate because the Dow represented financials at 10 percent, compared with 18 percent for the S.& P. 500.
 The decision to drop Honeywell and Altria is unusual because the two stocks have performed well recently. Previous changes often marked the departure of stocks in decline at the time, like Eastman Kodak, International Paper and Sears.
 The additions recognize trends within the stock market, including the continued growth of the financial service industry and the growing importance of the oil and gas industry to the world economy, Dow Jones said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); TOBACCO MFG (77%)

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (96%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (95%); CHEVRON CORP (93%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (85%); NEWS CORP (69%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); PAYDEN & RYGEL (55%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (LSE) (95%); 8648 (TSE) (95%); CVX (NYSE) (93%); MO (NYSE) (85%); NWS (NASDAQ) (69%); NWS (ASX) (69%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%); PMI (SWX) (57%); PM (PAR) (57%); PM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (85%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



305 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: White House Does Not See a Recession

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House predicted on Monday that the economy would escape a recession and that unemployment would remain low this year, though it acknowledged that growth had already slowed. 
 ''I don't think we are in a recession right now, and we are not forecasting a recession,'' said Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
 Presenting the White House's annual report to Congress on the economy, Mr. Lazear acknowledged that the plunge in housing and mortgage markets had yet to hit bottom and that growth would be low in the first half of 2008. 
 But administration officials are counting on a lift this summer from the $168 billion economic stimulus package that Congress passed last week and from the Federal Reserve's recent decisions to reduce short-term interest rates.
 The administration's forecast calls for the economy to expand 2.7 percent this year and for unemployment to remain at 4.9 percent. 
 That is much more optimistic than predictions by many analysts on Wall Street.
 Among economists surveyed by the Blue Chip Economic Forecast, a closely watched monthly survey, the consensus prediction is that the economy will expand 1.7 percent. 
 Indeed, a growing number of analysts contend that the United States has already slipped into a recession and will get only a temporary lift from the stimulus package this summer.
 Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a research note on Monday that he was convinced the economy was already in a recession and he warned that losses in the housing market could be even bigger than the $400 billion that Goldman predicted several months ago.
 Ethan Harris of Lehman Brothers predicted last week that the economy was likely to face a double-dip or ''W-shaped'' downturn before it begins a recovery.
 Federal Reserve officials, who have cut rates four times since August including sharp reductions twice last month, are predicting that the economy will escape a true recession -- usually defined as a contraction in activity that lasts for at least two back-to-back quarters.
 But Fed policy makers are expecting much slower growth than the administration, and they acknowledge great uncertainty about their own forecasts. 
 Mr. Lazear acknowledged that the economy might turn out to be weaker than the White House predicted in November in its previous forecast. Unemployment has already risen to 5 percent.
 ''We only do our forecast twice a year,'' Mr. Lazear said. ''But if we look at the forecast of professional forecasters, those not in the government but outside government, those numbers have come down to some extent.''
 Instead of lowering their forecast, administration officials are instead predicting that the economy will bounce back in the summer as a result of both the tax rebates for individuals and temporary tax cuts for businesses in the new stimulus plan.
 Mr. Lazear rejected proposals by Democrats to offer an additional 13 weeks of unemployment benefits, for a total of 39 weeks, to people who lose their jobs. He said it would be unprecedented to extend jobless benefits at a time when the unemployment rate is only 5 percent, and he predicted that the stimulus package would create an additional 500,000 jobs this year.
 The report on Monday predicts that business investment growth and job growth are both likely to remain ''solid'' in 2008, and it noted that exports have climbed sharply in part because the dollar has declined in value against many major currencies in the last several years.
 But it also noted that the wages of workers failed to keep up with inflation last year and that consumer spending has slowed. 
 ''Americans should be confident about the long-term strength of our economy, but our economy is undergoing a period of uncertainty,'' President Bush wrote in a letter to Congress accompanying the report.
 Democratic lawmakers quickly accused Mr. Bush of glossing over serious economic problems. ''The administration needs to recalibrate its overly optimistic assumptions in order to seriously address the declining fortunes of middle-class families,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. 
 Fed Official Optimistic
 ST. LOUIS (Reuters) -- The United States appears likely to avoid an economic slowdown but the chances of a recession have risen, William Poole, the president of the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank, said Monday. 
 ''I think the best bet is that we will not have a recession,'' he said after a speech to the St. Louis chapter of the National Association for Business Economics.
 Mr. Poole later told reporters, however, ''There is no question that the odds are higher than they used to be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush and Edward Lazear, left, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said Monday that the economy should expand 2.7 percent this year. (POOL PHOTO BY SHAWN THEW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: ED LAZEAR (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



306 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: A Medical Robot Makes Headway

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
YOU would never know a recession might be under way from looking at Intuitive Surgical, the leader in medical robot technology. 
 Hospitals have shown no sign yet of curbing their enthusiasm for the company's half-ton Da Vinci surgical robots, which sell for nearly $1.4 million each. The machines, which human surgeons direct from computerized consoles, are now widely used for high-precision prostate surgery and are being adopted for many other types of procedures.
 Intuitive's investors, meanwhile, have seemed almost giddy. After the company recently announced a better-than-expected fourth quarter, its shares rose $51.60, or 20 percent, to $305.61 in a single day. Shares rose $1.14, to close at $301.82 on Monday. 
 Intuitive, based in Mountain View, Calif., reported that 2007 was the third consecutive year in which sales grew more than 60 percent. And the company beat every expectation Wall Street had for the fourth quarter: sales, income, number of robots sold, profit margins, you name it. 
 Moreover, Intuitive predicted that sales would grow 40 percent this year, to $841 million with profits likewise soaring, to $4.92 a share. Those projections were ahead of the analysts' consensus forecast.
 ''We continue to make significant progress in terms of innovation and efficiency in every area of our business,'' Lonnie Smith, the company's chairman and chief executive, said in a conference call after Intuitive's Jan. 31 earnings report.
 The Da Vinci machines have up to four arms and flexible wrists on which Intuitive mounts miniaturized tools and cameras that are controlled by the surgeon. They cost an average of $1.38 million each in the fourth quarter-- not to mention additional charges of hundreds of thousands of dollars annually for training and replacements for tools disposed of after each procedure. Intuitive said the 78 units sold in the fourth quarter lifted the worldwide installed base to 795.
 Beyond prostate surgeries, the robots are now being employed for hysterectomies, fibroid removal and other gynecological procedures, while making inroads into numerous other areas like heart valve replacement and kidney surgery. Intuitive robots were used in 85,000 procedures last year and the company expected a 55 percent increase in 2008.
 Despite the big bounce from the recent earnings report, the shares were still well short of the peak of $353 they reached on Dec. 7 -- which was more than triple their level at the beginning of 2007. Since hitting that high, the stock had been falling on fears that its valuation had gotten too high in relation to other stocks and that a recession might curtail hospitals' capital spending. 
 Then news of the blow-out fourth quarter punished short sellers. But even now, it may take more than Jim Cramer's shouting ''Buy, buy, buy'' in his Feb. 4 review of Intuitive's business on CNBC's popular ''Mad Money'' show for investors to bid up the stock to a new high. 
 To be sure, some analysts see Intuitive as a good bet for near-term gains. Eli Kammerman of Cowen & Company in New York, who has been among the most optimistic followers of the company, told clients the recent earnings report should ''soothe worries about slower growth.'' He predicted that despite the leap in Intuitive's shares, they would outperform the general market -- as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- by at least 15 percent in the coming year.
 But Michael Matson, an analyst at Wachovia Capital Markets who is also enthusiastic about Intuitive's business, cautioned investors in a recent note that ''expectations have moved too high'' and the shares were now ''fully valued.''
 Mark Richter at Jefferies & Company told clients his price target was $293 a share and advised them to ''wait for a better entry point.'' And Ed Shanken, who follows the company from San Francisco for Needham & Company, said the high valuations would make for continued volatility in Intuitive's shares, giving investors with long-term horizons opportunities to buy when the price dips. 
 Given Intuitive's lofty price, investors interested in medical robotics might be tempted to shift their attention to the handful of other fast-growing public companies that have entered the field, like Accuray. It makes a robot called CyberKnife that attacks tumors through precise radiation instead of surgery. There are also Hansen Medical and Stereotaxis, two companies whose machines are primarily used to control catheters inserted into the heart to treat fibrillation and other heart rhythm irregularities.
 Accuray, which went public a year ago at $18 a share and fell 16 cents, to close at $11.15 on Monday, was the only one of those three start-ups that was already profitable. But Accuray is also the most likely to bump into the Intuitive juggernaut as the companies grow. They already compete in prostate cancer therapy.
 Mr. Shanken said that Intuitive's growth was fueled in part by the fact that surgeons from many specialties can learn how to use the Da Vinci and become advocates for it. The CyberKnife, by contrast, is always operated by a cancer specialist trained in radiation therapy. 
 In hospitals where different specialists use the same device, demand can quickly grow for additional robots. Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey has already purchased five Da Vincis, and Intuitive forecasts that most large hospitals will end up with at least three. 
 Mr. Shanken said a December survey that Needham conducted of urologists, obstetricians and gynecologists at hospitals with Da Vinci robots, found that over half of the 127 doctors who responded expected their hospital to purchase another Da Vinci within the next three years.
 As a result, it looks as if Intuitive, the flagship of medical robotics, could have a strong tail wind for years to come. But at these valuations, investors can expect plenty of volatility in the stock price. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A surgical team at Hackensack University Medical Center uses the Da Vinci robot. The robots sell for nearly $1.4 million each. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HACKENSACK UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL ROBOTICS (91%); ROBOTICS (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); PROSTATE DISEASE (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); HEART DISEASE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: INTUITIVE SURGICAL INC (58%)

TICKER: ISRG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



307 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Sudanese Army Officer Is Held In American Official's Murder

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya 

 BODY:
One of two men arrested Saturday in connection with the killing of the American diplomat in Sudan last month is a Sudanese Army officer, a senior Sudanese law enforcement official said Monday. 
 According to the official, the army officer was the ringleader of a small cell of terrorists, and was not acting on behalf of the Sudanese government. 
 The gunmen killed John Granville, an American diplomat working on aid projects for the Agency for International Development, to send a message to the American government, which has been highly critical of the way Sudan has handled the crisis in Darfur, the official said. He was not authorized to speak publicly about what he called a ''very secret'' investigation. 
 Mr. Granville and his Sudanese driver were shot early on Jan. 1, as they headed home from a New Year's party in Khartoum, Sudan's capital. A car zoomed in front of theirs and opened fire, instantly killing the driver, Abdel Rahman Abbas. Mr. Granville, 33, died hours later at a hospital. 
 ''These guys didn't like Americans or British people,'' said the law enforcement official.
 According to a second Sudanese official, who was also not authorized to speak publicly, the cell was formed last year after Sudan's president, Omar al-Bashir, vehemently rejected the idea of a United Nations peacekeeping mission to Darfur, the turbulent region in western Sudan. The cell included operatives from other Arab countries, the second official said, and it planned to attack American and British officials in Sudan. 
 American-Sudanese relations have been strained for years. The United States imposed economic sanctions on Sudan in the 1990s because of Sudan's suspected links to terrorist organizations. 
 The Bush Administration has recently ratcheted up the pressure because of the conflict in Darfur, which has claimed more than 200,000 lives. The Bush administration, among others, has blamed Sudanese officials for fomenting violence in Darfur and pushed hard for a United Nations-led peacekeeping mission there. 
 The first phase of that force, which is working in conjunction with the African Union, has arrived, but it has run into obstacles, including interference by the Sudanese government and recent threats by rebel fighters. 
 Last year, the United Nations warned its staff in Sudan that there was credible evidence that a terrorist cell was in the country and planning to attack foreigners. Diplomats were told to change their routes to work and be on the lookout for anyone trailing them.
 The Sudanese government initially dismissed suspicions that Mr. Granville's killing was terrorism-related, saying it was an isolated episode.
 Last week the government announced that it had arrested two suspects in a suburb of Khartoum. The suspects were heavily armed and fired an assault rifle at police officers in an attempt to escape. They were quickly cornered and surrendered.
 The senior Sudanese law enforcement official said the two suspects, including the army officer, had been formally accused. Three others are in detention under investigation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MEN (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); MURDER (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: OMAR AL-BASHIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (69%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); KENYA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



308 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Banks and the Subprime Crisis: No Deficit of Ideas

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Give the Banks Some Credit'' (Op-Ed, Feb. 6):
 Howard P. Milstein is right on target when he proposes that the government guarantee the principal of subprime mortgages for 15 years in exchange for the banks keeping their teaser interest rates in place during that time.
 This financial circuit breaker would stop the downward self-reinforcing spiral in the real estate market, and it would, at the same time, help provide much needed capital to the banking industry. 
 Calm would be restored, liquidity would be provided, people would keep their homes, and whole communities would be saved.
 Alfred DelliBovi New York, Feb. 7, 2008
 The writer is president and chief executive of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.
 To the Editor:
 Under the guise of solving the credit and home lending disasters, what Howard P. Milstein proposes is, in fact, a taxpayer-financed bailout of subprime creditors via the United States Treasury.
 Such a bailout would occur without any real reform of the lending system that originally fostered the crisis, no enhanced supervision of the collateralized debt obligations, and no penalties for anyone who originally created the crisis. 
 What Mr. Milstein proposes is a ''get out of jail free'' card for the subprime industry and the hedge-fund benefactors of its wild growth.
 Moreover, the real estate bubble has popped, and rightly so. Now housing prices must come back to more realistic levels to allow new entrants to the property ladder. Using taxpayer dollars to slow an inevitable market correction in housing prices is a terrible tax on non-homeowners.
 Robert L. Hill London, Feb. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Howard P. Milstein's plan to revive the economy by guaranteeing subprime mortgages at their initial teaser rates is brilliant. 
 Congress's economic stimulus package, which focuses on tax rebates, is a one-time hit that may not work. A lot of taxpayers will probably use their rebates to pay off debt. This is not a jump start of the economy through new purchases of good and services; it is consumers' getting out of their holes of debt owed for previous purchases.
 It is not clear, however, if Mr. Milstein advocates allowing subprime mortgages to jump back up to their much-higher post-teaser rates after 15 years. Then we would only be delaying another shock. The post-teaser rates should be affordable.
 Daniel S. Miller Granby, Mass., Feb. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The idea of locking in the teaser rate for 15 years misses the whole point of the problem. We need to flush out these mortgages, but we don't want to do it all at once.
 Instead, let the rate rise gradually over time. The banks get punished with lower returns on these bad risks and the borrowers also get punished with an increasing rate.
 The key to the solution is to protect the market from a flood of bad debt and foreclosed properties without fundamentally altering market principles.
 Will White San Francisco Feb. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I fear that Howard P. Milstein is too optimistic if he believes that government guarantees of subprime mortgages at the ''teaser'' rate will restore the banks' capital reserves.
 If the ''teaser'' rate is kept in place for 15 years, then the capital value of those assets will be reduced to reflect the lower income stream.
 Martin G. Evans Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 6, 2008
 The writer is emeritus professor of management, University of Toronto.
 To the Editor:
 If it's good for the federal government (taxpayers) to guarantee the excessive (reckless) mortgage loans made by banks, wouldn't it be even better to also guarantee the excessive credit card debt of bankrupt citizens, the worthless Enron stock investors held, and the gambling debts of compulsive gamblers?
 Jeffrey Moskin New York, Feb. 6, 2008 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK OF NEW YORK (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



309 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Shares Gain on Hopes for Further Easing

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street finished an uneasy session higher on Monday as shares of retailers and home builders rose on expectations for more interest rate cuts, but those of banks and insurers fell on worries about further mortgage debt troubles.
 The Federal Reserve is expected to lower the federal funds rate once more, either this month or at its next regularly scheduled meeting March 18. And the cheaper cost of money is beginning to register in the stock market.
 ''A number of sectors like retail and housing stocks have done better since the Fed acted, and they are leading the market again today,'' said Steve Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Company. ''These stocks are called early bellwethers and they tend to lead a recovery.'' 
 But investors continued to grapple with bad news in the credit markets. The stock market fell in early trading and remained volatile even after recovering because of concerns over news that the American International Group might have more mortgage debt to write off.
 A.I.G., one of the 30 companies that make up the Dow Jones industrial average, said in a regulatory filing that it would need to alter the way it values its credit default swaps involving collateralized debt obligations. Credit default swaps are insurance policies against defaults, and C.D.O.'s are funds that contain some parts of bonds, some of which are backed by mortgages.
 The insurer said auditors had found that it ''had a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting and oversight'' regarding how it valued certain credit default swaps. The filing raised concerns that there would be further losses at A.I.G., and that other financial companies might reveal similar problems. A.I.G. dropped $5.94, or 11.7 percent, to $44.74.
 The Dow rose 57.88, or 0.48 percent, to 12,240.01. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.84, or 0.59 percent, to 1,339.13, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 15.21, or 0.66 percent, to 2,320.06. The Russell 2000 index rose 0.85, or 0.12 percent, to 699.75.
 Microsoft, a Dow component, fell 35 cents, to $28.21, after Yahoo's board rejected a $44.6 billion takeover offer, but Yahoo rose 67 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $29.87.
 Light crude oil rose $1.82 to settle at $93.59 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 In percentage terms, last week was the worst since 2003 for the Dow, which fell 4.4 percent. The S.& P. 500 declined 4.6 percent, and the Nasdaq dropped 4.5 percent. The Dow is nearly 14 percent below its Oct. 9 record close of 14,164.53, and about 2 percent above the 15-month lows it hit in January.
 Though Wall Street managed a gain Monday, many analysts say they believe there is more bad news ahead in the credit markets.
 ''The absolute seizure of the credit markets in the corporate arena is going to put enormous pressure on American companies,'' said George M. Feiger, chief executive of Contango Capital Advisors, the wealth management arm of Zions Bancorporation. ''And this is really bad news for the economy.''
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond rose 7/32, to 99 1/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.61 percent from 3.64 percent on Friday.
 Following are the results of Monday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 THE FAVORITES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BONDS (79%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); INSURANCE POLICIES (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); WEEDEN & CO LP (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



310 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1691 words

HEADLINE: MORTGAGE CRISIS SPREADS BEYOND SUBPRIME LOANS

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
The credit crisis is no longer just a subprime mortgage problem.
 As home prices fall and banks tighten lending standards, people with good, or prime, credit histories are falling behind on their payments for home loans, auto loans and credit cards at a quickening pace, according to industry data and economists.
 The rise in prime delinquencies, while less severe than the one in the subprime market, nonetheless poses a threat to the battered housing market and weakening economy, which some specialists say is in a recession or headed for one. 
 Until recently, people with good credit, who tend to pay their bills on time and manage their finances well, were viewed as a bulwark against the economic strains posed by rising defaults among borrowers with blemished, or subprime, credit. 
 ''This collapse in housing value is sucking in all borrowers,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com.
 Like subprime mortgages, many prime loans made in recent years allowed borrowers to pay less initially and face higher adjustable payments a few years later. As long as home prices were rising, these borrowers could refinance their loans or sell their properties to pay off their mortgages. But now, with prices falling and lenders clamping down, homeowners with solid credit are starting to come under the same financial stress as those with subprime credit.
 ''Subprime was a symptom of the problem,'' said James F. Keegan, a bond portfolio manager at American Century Investments, a mutual fund company. ''The problem was we had a debt or credit bubble.''
 The bursting of that bubble has led to steep losses across the financial industry. American International Group said on Monday that auditors found it may have understated losses on complex financial instruments linked to mortgages and corporate loans. 
 The running turmoil is also stirring fears that some hedge funds may run into trouble. At the end of September, nearly 4 percent of prime mortgages were past due or in foreclosure, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. 
 That was the highest rate since the group started tracking prime and subprime mortgages separately in 1998. The delinquency and foreclosure rate for all mortgages, 7.3 percent, is higher than at any time since the group started tracking that data in 1979, largely as a result of the surge in subprime lending during the last few years.
 An example of the spreading credit crisis is seen in Don Doyle, a computer engineer at Lockheed Martin who makes a six-figure income and had a stellar credit score in 2004, when he refinanced his home in Northern California to take cash out to pay for his daughter's college tuition.
 Mr. Doyle, 52, is now worried that he will have to file for bankruptcy, because he cannot afford to make the higher variable payments on his mortgage, and he cannot sell his home for more than his $740,000 mortgage. 
 ''The whole plan was to get out'' before his rate reset, he said. ''Now I am caught. I can't sell my house. I'm having a hard time refinancing. I've avoided bankruptcy for months trying to pull this out of my savings.''
 The default rate for prime mortgages is still far lower than for subprime loans, about 24 percent of which are delinquent or in foreclosure. Some economists note that slightly more than a third of American homeowners have paid off their mortgages completely. This group is generally more affluent and contributes more to consumer spending and the economy relative to its size.
 Unlike subprime borrowers, who tend to have lower incomes and fewer assets, prime borrowers have greater means to restructure their debt if they lose jobs or encounter other financial challenges. The recent reductions in short term interest rates by the Federal Reserve should also help by reducing the reset rate for adjustable loans. 
 Still, economists say the rate cuts and the $168 billion fiscal stimulus package are unlikely to make a significant dent in the large debts weighing on many Americans, because banks have tightened lending standards and expected rebates from the government will not cover most house payments.
 The problems are most acute in areas that experienced a big boom in housing -- California, the Southwest, Florida and other coastal markets -- and in the Midwest, which is suffering from job losses in the manufacturing sector.
 And it is not just first-mortgage default rates that are rising. About 5.7 percent of home equity lines of credit were delinquent or in default at the end of last year, up from 4.5 percent a year earlier, according to Moody's Economy.com and Equifax, the credit bureau. 
 About 7.1 percent of auto loans were in trouble, up from 6.1 percent. Personal bankruptcy filings, which fell significantly after a 2005 federal law made it harder to wipe out debts in bankruptcy, are starting to inch up.
 On Monday, Fitch Ratings, the debt rating firm, reported that credit card companies wrote off 5.4 percent of their prime card balances in January, up from 4.3 percent a year ago. The so-called charge-off rate is still lower than before the 2005 law went into effect.
 Banks are responding to the rise in delinquencies by capping home equity lines of credit in areas with falling real estate prices. A few credit card companies have also moved to reduce the credit limits of customers they deem more risky. 
 Bank of America, Citigroup, Countrywide Financial, JPMorgan Chase, Washington Mutual and Wells Fargo are expected to announce on Tuesday at the Treasury Department that they will offer both prime and subprime borrowers who are more than three months behind a chance to halt foreclosure proceedings for 30 days and work out new loan terms.
 In a conference call with analysts in December, Kenneth Lewis, the chief executive of Bank of America, said more borrowers appear to be giving up on their homes as prices fall, noting a ''change in social attitudes toward default.''
 ''You don't mind making a $2,000 payment when the house is going up'' in value, said Steve Walsh, a mortgage broker in Scottsdale, Arizona, who has seen several clients walk away from their homes because they couldn't refinance or sell. ''When it's going down, it becomes a weight around your neck, it becomes an anchor.''
 Home prices in the North Las Vegas neighborhood of Brenda Harris, a technology analyst at a casino company, have fallen 20 percent to 30 percent. The builder who sold her a new three-bedroom home on Pink Flamingos Place for about $392,000 in 2006 is now listing similar properties for $314,000. A larger house a block down from Ms. Harris was recently listed online for $310,000. 
 But Ms. Harris does not want to leave her home. She estimates that she has spent close to $40,000 on her property, about half for a down payment and much of the rest on a deck and landscaping.
 ''I'm not behind in my payments, but I'm trying to prevent getting behind,'' Ms. Harris said. ''I don't want to ruin my credit.''
 In addition to the declining value of her home, Ms. Harris, 53, will soon be hit with a sharply higher house payment. She has an option adjustable-rate mortgage, a loan that allows borrowers to pay less than the interest and principal due every month. The unpaid interest gets added to the principal balance. She is making the minimum monthly payments due on her loan, about $2,400. 
 But she knows she will not be able to pay the $3,400 needed to cover her interest and principal, which she will be required to pay once her loan balance reaches 115 percent of her starting balance. And under the terms of her loan, which was made by Countrywide Financial, she would have to pay a prepayment penalty of about $40,000 ifshe chose to refinance or sell her home before May 2009.
 She said that she now wishes she had taken a traditional fixed-rate loan when she bought the home. At the time, she asked for a loan that could be refinanced after one year without penalty. She said her broker had told her a week before the closing that the penalty would extend until May 2009 and that she reluctantly agreed because she had already started moving.
 A nonprofit community group, Acorn Housing, is trying to broker a modification of Ms. Harris's loan. In a statement Friday, Countrywide said the company had been in touch with Ms. Harris and would work with her.
 Credit counselors say many borrowers like Ms. Harris were cajoled or pushed into risky mortgages that they never had the ability to repay. 
 Others disregarded warnings about complex loans because they wanted to be a part of the housing boom, which like the technology stock bubble lured people in with seemingly instant and risk-free profits, said Mory Brenner, vice president of Financial Firebird Corporation, a company based in Pittsfield, Mass., that publishes consumer debt information and refers borrowers to credit counselors.
 ''I'd say, Let me tell you something, this is crazy,'' Mr. Brenner said. ''You cannot afford this house, even if nothing happens and rates stay as low as they are today. And the response would be: I don't care.''
 Lenders extended credit to people without verifying their incomes and allowing them to make little or no down payments.
 But borrowers like Mr. Doyle, the engineer in Northern California, say they are victims of their circumstances -- housing prices collapsed and lending standards tightened just as they needed to sell or refinance. 
 In refinancing their home in 2004, Mr. Doyle and his wife were doing what millions of other homeowners did in the last decade -- tapping into the rising value of their homes for home improvements, paying off credit card debt, college tuition and for other spending. 
 The Doyles took advantage of the housing boom by refinancing their home nearly every year since they bought it in 1995 for $275,000. Until their most recent loan they never had a problem making their payments. They invested much of the money in shares of companies that subsequently went bankrupt. 
 Still, Mr. Doyle does not regret refinancing in 2004. ''My goal was clear: I wanted to help my daughter go through college,'' he said. ''It wasn't like it was for us.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Fallout From the Subprime Crisis: Many Americans with poor credit or questionable finances have been unable to keep up with rising rates... . . .But higher payments and falling home prices are also reaching borrowers normally able to pay in full and on time... . . .And paying off their mortgage isn't all -- borrowers are falling behind in their payments on other kinds of debt. (Sources: Mortgage Bankers Association
Equifax
 Moody's Economy.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (95%); CREDIT CRISIS (94%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); BONDS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS (54%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (51%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); LMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



311 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Trying Again on Mobile Games

BYLINE: By ANDREAS TZORTZIS

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
Once dubbed the Frankenphone by unimpressed mobile phone aficionados, Nokia's oval, game-focused N-Gage model quietly disappeared from the market not long after its introduction in 2003.
 Last week, N-Gage returned as a sleekly designed software platform, sending ripples of curiosity through a mobile gaming market that has yet to reach its much-hyped potential.
 ''There is clearly a demand for games, and people like to play games on their handsets,'' said Damian Stathonikos, a Nokia spokesman. ''But they've had difficulties accessing them.'' 
 High prices and long download times over slow connections, games that some analysts say have been poorly designed and bad retailing approaches have been the chief reasons the industry has not grown as fast as some had hoped. But as mobile phone carriers in Europe lower prices for the transfer of data and companies like Apple, Google and Nokia develop software platforms that promise easier download experiences, 2008 is looking decidedly more promising.
 ''I think it was a case where the mobile industry got over-excited about a new sector, but did not make a huge investment in it,'' said Paul Goode, senior analyst at M:Metrics, a company based in Seattle that analyzes the mobile phone market. ''The industry is starting to circle back and mature.''
 Though cellphones featuring Java software necessary to run quality video games have been on the market for several years, analysts say users have stopped short of paying extra to download games. M:Metrics reported that though around one quarter of mobile phone users in Europe and the United States had played games on their phones, they tended to be the preset puzzle and driving games available with all new cellphones.
 Less than 5 percent of users in the United States and major markets in Europe actually use their phone's browser or go to the Web site of game publishers like Gameloft, Electronic Arts or Glu to pay money to download games, according to M:Metrics. Paul Jackson, who follows the industry for the technology consulting company Forrester Research, said the games were to blame.
 ''The games have been truly atrocious,'' he said. ''They've been cut-down, poorly functional versions of what you would see'' on smaller game-only consoles like Sony's PSP.
 Publishers, on the other hand, blame the high prices mobile phone carriers charge for slow data transfer rates. ''You would end up paying much more for the download than for the game itself,'' said Michel Guillemot, chief executive of the mobile-game publisher Gameloft, based in Paris.
 But Mr. Guillemot, whose company surpassed EA last week to become the world's top publisher of mobile games, said he expected a breakthrough year in 2008. Mobile phone networks that will be able to carry more data -- and more complex games -- at a faster rate and lower cost, as well as software platforms like N-Gage, Google's much-anticipated Android and one being developed for Apple's iPhone, will make it easier on the consumer.
 ''All the barriers we had up until now in improving the experience are falling in 2008,'' he said.
 Nokia's N-Gage, especially, could focus the market's attention on improving consumer access to game downloads. Released last week for the Finnish company's N81 cellphone and available to the rest of Nokia's Series 60 smart phones this year, N-Gage allows users to circumvent costly downloads over mobile phone carriers.
 Nokia users will be able to hop online, download a software client and begin downloading games, music and maps onto their mobile phones through a USB or Bluetooth connection. Before buying games, customers will be able to download a free trial and make a decision later on whether or not to pay between $7.25 and $8.70 for it.
 ''Games are regularly in the top five in terms of the content people want to use on their device,'' Mr. Stathonikos of Nokia said. ''We're trying to make it easy for people to go for real quality games and try them out.''
 Ease in downloading and playing games on a cellphone is crucial to winning over the market's No. 1 target group: casual gamers that use their phones to play games for five- to ten-minute stretches. Increasingly, says Mr. Guillemot, that group, mostly in their 20s and 30s, is made up of women. Gaming is ''a very, very accessible type of entertainment,'' Mr. Guillemot said. ''Women like to use their phone in many different ways. They send a lot of text messages and call, and they can play as well.''
 Games like ''Deal or No Deal,'' based on the American television show, or classics like Sudoku and Solitaire do especially well among women, Mr. Guillemot said. A study by M:Metrics showed that, in Europe, women make up 50 percent of those actively buying games. But Mr. Jackson said game publishers and software manufactures hoping women would readily follow on new innovations in the industry might be expecting too much.
 ''Let's not kid ourselves,'' he said. ''Your average 35-year-old professional female will not be downloading a gaming client any time soon.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (90%); MOBILE MEDIA (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPUTER GAMES (78%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (73%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WEB SITES (62%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); GAMELOFT SA (81%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); GFT (PAR) (81%); EA (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



312 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Recovering the Complex Legacy of the Photographer Jacob Riis

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
If you have seen any of Jacob Riis's photographs, you have probably never forgotten them. Riis was the Danish-born police reporter who in the late 1880s brought magnesium-flash photography into some of the darkest and most troubled spots in New York City -- the tenements near Mulberry Bend, where Columbus Park now stands. New immigrants were crushed together there in some of the worst squalor and highest population densities ever recorded on this planet. 
 By Riis's time, social and political reform efforts had been going on for half a century, but to little effect. What made the difference was his photographs, which Riis used in popular lectures and in his best-selling book, ''How the Other Half Lives,'' published in 1890, five years before the Mulberry Bend tenements were finally torn down. 
 His photographs showed a hidden city, a morgue of the living. He allowed New Yorkers to witness, as if firsthand, the overcrowding he caught in the cellars and flophouses, the tenement rooms where sleeping bodies were stacked on top of each other, the dingy corners that had been turned into sweatshops. 
 His pictures are a harsh, unofficial census, a record of impossible conditions in immigrant New York. On each face he photographed, there is a look of personal extinction except, that is, on the faces of children, who somehow manage to look only hardened. 
 The starkness of Riis's photographs never fades. The memory of how Riis actually used his photographs, especially in his lectures, has faded. We expect the harshness of the camera's eye, its unblinking testimony. But according to two students of Riis's work, Bonnie Yochelson and Daniel Czitrom, Riis's lectures -- which were a critical part of his reforming mission -- owed as much to vaudeville as they did to journalism. 
 Along with his lantern slides, Riis told dialect jokes and ethnic humor. He told stories and scheduled pauses for sacred singing. Near the end of the talk, he showed slides of the burial trench at Potter's Field and Jesus Christ. 
 Strange as his lectures would have seemed to us, this mixture of spirituality and rough humor may actually have increased the effectiveness of his images for audiences of the time. Riis made the invisible visible, but he also made the audience feel its responsibility to act, to take a part in the reform movement that would eventually sweep away the tenements.
 What would it have been like to see the photograph called ''I Scrubs'' -- Riis's portrait of 9-year-old Katie, who kept house for her brothers and sisters -- and know that she was living somewhere in the city, her life shrunken to little more than a sense of economic duty? 
 There is nothing that we in the 21st century can do for Katie except to wonder whether she was ever allowed to outgrow her premature elderliness. But to Riis's audience, Katie was the living present, the very burden of their concern. What was she like? How did she sound? What could it mean to be 9 years old and so ancient already? These are questions it would have seemed natural to ask the photographer who had asked Katie to pose for him.
 To us, of course, Riis's showmanship would have seemed like intolerable distractions from the purity of the suffering his images convey. The last thing these photographs need, from the modern point of view, is an interlocutor, especially one who wants to tell moralizing anecdotes or characterize his subjects by race. 
 From the distance of 120 years, the mute testimony of Riis's photographs seems eloquent enough. We stare at them and know that though times may have changed in Mulberry Bend, the camera does not have far to look to find suffering that is every bit as dire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); WITNESSES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (71%); RELIGION (66%); BESTSELLERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



313 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Arizona Seeing Signs of Flight By Immigrants

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
The signs of flight among Latino immigrants here are multiple: Families moving out of apartment complexes, schools reporting enrollment drops, business owners complaining about fewer clients.
 While it is too early to know for certain, a consensus is developing among economists, business people and immigration groups that the weakening economy coupled with recent curbs on illegal immigration are steering Hispanic immigrants out of the state.
 The Arizona economy, heavily dependent on growth and a Latino work force, has been slowing for months. Meanwhile, the state has enacted one of the country's toughest laws to punish employers who hire illegal immigrants, and the county sheriff here in Phoenix has been enforcing federal immigration laws by rounding up people living here illegally.
 ''It is very difficult to separate the economic reality in Arizona from the effects of the laws because the economy is tanking and construction is drying up,'' said Frank Pierson, lead organizer of the Arizona Interfaith Network, which advocates for immigrants' rights and other causes. But the combination of factors creates '' a disincentive to stay in the state.'' 
 State Representative Russell K. Pearce, a Republican from Mesa and leading advocate of the crackdown on illegal immigration, takes reports of unauthorized workers leaving as a sign of success. An estimated one in 10 workers in Arizona are Hispanic immigrants, both legal and illegal, twice the national average.
 ''The desired effect was, we don't have the red carpet out for illegal aliens,'' Mr. Pearce said, adding that while ''most of these are good people'' they are a ''tremendous burden'' on public services.
 On Monday, state lawmakers, concerned about shortages of workers and the failed revamping of immigration law in Congress, which was pushed by Senator John McCain of Arizona, pledged action.
 Bills were announced that would create a state-run temporary worker program, though it would need Congressional authorization. And last week Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat, offered to help the United States Labor Department rewrite regulations designed to streamline visas for agricultural workers, who growers say are increasingly hard to find.
 While data for the last month or so are not available, there were already signs of migration out of Arizona at the end of last year. In the fourth quarter of 2007 the apartment-vacancy rate in metropolitan Phoenix rose to 11.2 percent from 9 percent in the same quarter of 2006, with much higher rates of 15 percent or more in heavily Latino neighborhoods.
 ''You have many people moving out, but they are not all illegal,'' said Terry Feinberg, president of the Arizona Multihousing Alliance, a trade group for the apartment and rental housing industry. ''A lot of people moving are citizens, or legal, but because someone in their family or social network is not, and they are having a hard time keeping or finding a job, they all move.''
 Elizabeth Leon, a legal immigrant and day care worker, said the families of two of her charges abruptly left, forcing the state to take custody of the children. Ms. Leon's brother, a construction worker who is not authorized to be in the country, plans to leave, unable to find steady work; families at the neighborhood school have pulled children out, Ms. Leon said, fearful of sheriff's deputies.
 ''It is like a panic here,'' she said. ''This is all having an effect on the community, mostly emotional.''
 Juan Jose Araujo, 44, is here legally. His wife, however, is not and is pressing for the family to return to Mexico because of the difficulty in finding a job and what the family considers a growing anti-immigrant climate. 
 Although prosecutors in the state do not plan to begin enforcing the sanctions against employers until next month, several employers have reportedly already dismissed workers whose legal authorization to work could not be proved, as required by the law.
 ''We don't have family or anything in Mexico,'' said Mr. Araujo, who has lived in the United States for 24 years. ''I wouldn't have anywhere to go there, but we have to consider it.''
 Property managers report that families have uprooted overnight, with little or no notice. Carlos Flores Vizcarra, the Mexican consul general in Phoenix, said while he could not tie the phenomenon to a single factor, the consulate had experienced an ''unusual'' five-fold increase in parents applying for Mexican birth certificates for their children and other documents that often are a prelude to moving.
 Several school districts in heavily Latino areas have reported sudden drops in enrollment. Official explanations are elusive because school officials have not been able to interview families about why they left, but, anecdotally, people point to the sour economy and the immigration crackdown among other factors. 
 The Cartwright Elementary School District in west Phoenix, for instance, reported a loss of 525 students this school year (dropping the enrollment to 19,845), while in previous years enrollment had grown or remained stable among its 23 schools. Meri Simmons, a spokeswoman for the district, said word of mouth suggested that the economy and sanctions on employers played a role.
 ''We know we have a lot of empty houses,'' Ms. Simmons said.
 Jobs in the construction industry, a major employer of immigrants, are growing scarce, declining 8.6 percent in December compared with the previous year.
 Juan Leon, a construction subcontractor and the husband of Elizabeth Leon, the day care worker, said illegal immigrants had made it harder for legal residents like him to find work. Companies that employ them can bid much lower on projects than he can because they pay workers much less, Mr. Leon said.
 ''I hate to see families torn apart,'' he said of the current flight, ''but there is no money to be made sometimes because some contractors who employ illegal workers can do the job dirt cheap.''
 Dawn McLaren, an economist at Arizona State University in Tempe who studies the state's economic and migration trends, said it was likely that lack of work is forcing people to move, probably to nearby states. But Ms. McLaren also theorized that the slowing economy had caused a reduction in the flow of new immigrants over the border.
 Analyzing data back to the early 1990s, she said, a drop in Border Patrol arrests -- they have been steadily declining the last couple of years -- typically preceded an economic downturn or slowing.
 ''It's a highly networked community,'' she said of border crossers. ''It costs a lot to get here, and they generally have a job lined up here. People say, 'We need people on the crew.' And they tell friends and relatives to come over.''
 A persistent decline in the immigrant population could damage the overall Arizona economy, Ms. McLaren said. A study by the Pew Hispanic Center released in January said illegal workers made up close to 11 percent of the state's work force of 2.9 million people in 2006, double the national estimate.
 ''What it looks like now is that a little bump in the economic road, especially with the sanctions law, is looking like it might last a year or more,'' she said.
 Even as the economy slows and people leave, the matter of the state's sanctions on employers is not settled.
 The legal fight over the law, which a federal judge upheld Thursday, is headed for the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The law punishes employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants by suspending their business license for 10 days on the first offense and revokingit for a second infraction.
 Opponents call it an unconstitutional intrusion by the state on federal immigration authority but the federal judge, Neil V. Wake, disagreed.
 At the same time, signatures are being gathered for two ballot initiatives, one that would toughen the law and another meant to soften it. If both end up on the November ballot, the one with the most votes would prevail.
 Ms. McLaren, the economist, said that in the end history showed it was difficult to stop illegal immigration so long as jobs paid better in the United States than at home. An economic rebound would probably draw people back here, no matter the laws.
 ''They will find a way to adjust,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Juan Jose Araujo is in the United States legally and has been here for 24 years, but he is considering a return to Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF TOPPING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); FARM LABOR (64%); AGRICULTURE (60%); RELIGION (53%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



314 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
A PRIME MORTGAGE CRISIS Some borrowers with good credit histories are beginning to fall behind on their mortgage, auto and credit card payments. 
 DRIVING WHILE DISTRACTED Safety experts say operating G.P.S. devices, telephones, iPods or DVD players while driving poses a chaotic distraction. [A1.] 
 A BIG NO FROM YAHOO Yahoo formally rejected Microsoft's $44.6 billion bid, leaving Christopher P. Liddell, left, Microsoft's chief financial officer, to plot the software giant's next move. [C9.]
 HARD TIMES AT HEDGE FUNDS Turmoil in the markets is endangering hedge funds that have enjoyed enormous growth for years, and some will undoubtedly fail, analysts predict. [C1.] 
 ACCOUNTING PROBLEM AT A.I.G. American International Group, the global insurance giant, has disclosed problems with the way it was valuing securities. [C1.]
 THE STRIKE'S REAL WINNERS... Hollywood writers have won a victory on principle, but the true winners could be the studios and television networks. [C1.]
 ...AND ADVERTISERS' WISH LIST With the end of the strike, a priority list from advertisers that could change the way they do business with the networks. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C1.]
 INVESTOR SEEKS COMPANY Suppose you had $320 million and had to buy a company in 10 working days? DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.]
 A WALL ST. DARLING Shares of Intuitive Surgical's rose 20 percent recently as sales of its robot, which performs precise surgery, soar. Market Place. [C3.] 
 NOT SEEING A RECESSION The Bush administration says the economy will not fall into a recession and that unemployment will remain low for the year. [C3.]
 MICROSOFT BUYS DANGER INC. In a clue that it is expanding its mobile strategy, Microsoft will buy Danger, the maker of the Sidekick smartphone. [C9.] 
 LAWYER IS SENTENCEDWilliam S. Lerach was sentenced to two years in prison and ordered to forfeit $7.75 million for his role in prearranging plaintiffs for class-action lawsuits. [C3.]
 FIGHTING THE I.R.S. A tax research group says the Internal Revenue Service is not complying with federal court orders to provide data on its audit practices. [C7.]
 BIGGER STAKE IN TIMES CO. The coalition of hedge funds intent on placing directors on the board of The New York Times Company has more than doubled its stake in the company. [C5.]
 MAKING CONNECTIONS Arriving on time for connecting flights doesn't have to cause anxiety, but planning is required. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); TAX LAW (85%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); SMARTPHONES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); INSURANCE (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); SENTENCING (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (66%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%); LAWYERS (64%); CLASS ACTIONS (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); CD & DVD DRIVES (57%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%); DANGER INC (66%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (63%); INTUITIVE SURGICAL INC (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%); NYT (NYSE) (63%); ISRG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (63%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



315 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: With 3 States Set to Vote, A Dash About Chesapeake

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and ELISABETH BUMILLER; Katharine Q. Seelye reported from Baltimore, and Elisabeth Bumiller from Annapolis, Md. Julie Bosman contributed from White Marsh, Md.

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
Hopscotching around the region on the eve of the so-called Chesapeake primaries, the two contenders for the Democratic Party's presidential nomination traded boasts and challenges on Monday about who was better equipped to take on the likely Republican nominee, Senator John McCain. 
 At a rally here packed with 11,000 people, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois said Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton says he is not tough enough to take on the Republican attack machine.
 ''I have to explain to people, I'm skinny but I'm tough,'' Mr. Obama said, to laughter. ''Yes. Skinny. I'm wily. Don't mess with me. Let 'em bring it on. Who they got? John McCain?''
 He then added, ''Listen, I respect John McCain for his half-century of service to this country,'' praising Mr. McCain, of Arizona, while also drawing attention to his age. ''But he is on the wrong side of history right now.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton, coming off a weekend in which she lost four nominating contests to Mr. Obama and shook up the top level of her campaign, spent much of the day trying to demonstrate that she had a better chance to win the White House for the Democrats in November. At the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, she tried out some likely lines of attack against Mr. McCain before an auditorium of students. 
 ''He didn't even vote on the stimulus package. He said he doesn't really understand the economy,'' she said, drawing laughter. ''Well, I think it's really important for the next president to understand the economy.'' 
 With contests on Tuesday in Virginia, Maryland and the District of Columbia, and 171 pledged delegates at stake, the candidates were making last-minute pitches for support, holding rallies, stopping at a General Motors factory (Mrs. Clinton) and a coffee shop (Mr. Obama) and, in the case of Mr. McCain, holding a news conference at a hotel near the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md., where he was once a midshipman.
 There, he continued his campaign of congeniality with his Republican opponent, former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, saying it was fine with him if Mr. Huckabee challenged the results of Saturday's Washington State caucuses. Party officials have declared Mr. McCain the winner by several hundred votes, but the Huckabee campaign says that 1,500 votes went uncounted.
 ''He certainly has the right to challenge if he chooses to,'' Mr. McCain said. Nevertheless, Mr. McCain said that ''it's pretty clear that we won.''
 Mr. McCain, who is far ahead of Mr. Huckabee in delegates and remains the presumptive nominee, suffered embarrassing losses over the weekend to Mr. Huckabee in the Louisiana primary and the Kansas caucuses. Asked why voters persisted in voting for Mr. Huckabee, Mr. McCain replied, ''Because they like him.''
 Although Mr. Huckabee cannot mathematically win the nomination at this point, he has said he will remain in the race until Mr. McCain reaches the delegate count that will put him over the top, 1,191.
 Later, Mr. McCain appeared at an evening rally in Richmond, Va., where he said at a news conference that his campaign had decided not to accept federal matching funds because ''we didn't need to.'' 
 Mr. McCain, who has made limiting the money spent on campaigns a central part of his record in the Senate, had considered accepting the money, particularly after his campaign ran out of money last summer. But since winning the New Hampshire primary, Mr. McCain has received enough donations to forgo the $6 million he might have received.
 Mr. McCain, though, is still trying to overcome resistance by conservatives to his nomination. On Monday, he received support from Gary L. Bauer, a prominent Christian conservative who was one of the few evangelical leaders to endorse Mr. McCain in his race for president eight years ago.
 ''John McCain has dedicated his life to defending human rights around the world, including the rights of the unborn,'' Mr. Bauer said in a statement released by the McCain campaign.
 Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida and the president's brother, also endorsed Mr. McCain on Monday.
 Both of the Democratic candidates, meanwhile, have been seeking an endorsement from former Senator John Edwards, who dropped out of the Democratic field last month. Mrs. Clinton met privately on Thursday with Mr. Edwards, and Mr. Obama was scheduled to fly to Mr. Edwards's home in North Carolina on Monday, but the meeting was canceled. Aides said it was because the meeting was threatening to turn into a media circus.
 Mr. Edwards has discussed a possible endorsement with both candidates for weeks, while soliciting advice from his closest aides, who are deeply divided over whom he should endorse. In the days leading up to Mr. Edwards's withdrawal from the race at the end of January, two advisers said, he and Mrs. Clinton had friendly telephone conversations nearly every day.
 ''He feels both candidates have great strengths,'' said John C. Moylan, a close friend who ran Mr. Edwards's South Carolina campaign. ''He's watching to see how things play out.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton, making stops in Washington, Maryland and Virginia, was dogged by questions about her campaign shake-up, when Patti Solis Doyle, her campaign manager and longtime aide, resigned as campaign manager. Ms. Doyle was replaced by Maggie Williams, a friend of Mrs. Clinton and her chief of staff when she was first lady. 
 ''This was Patti's decision,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''I have the greatest respect and affection for her. She's going to remain as a senior adviser to me. But this has already been a very long campaign, and it takes quite a toll on the people who are directly involved, particularly those with families.''
 Mrs. Clinton offered reassurances about her campaign in the face of what even her advisers said would be a difficult month.
 ''I feel good about where we are,'' she told reporters. ''I'm still ahead in delegates and in the popular vote. We're each picking up delegates.'' She commended Mr. Obama on his victories and said she looked forward to Ohio and Texas, ''because we know that those are states where they represent the broad electorate in this country.''
 Mark Penn, Mrs. Clinton's pollster and chief strategist, said in a conference call with reporters that Mr. Obama would fall victim to ''the Republican attack machine'' and lose support from his base. 
 ''How much do independent voters really know about Barack Obama, his voting record and his past positions?'' Mr. Penn said, adding that Mr. Obama ''has never had a serious Republican challenger.''
 Mr. Obama, who drew a crowd estimated by his campaign at 17,500 at the University of Maryland in College Park, answered a challenge from Mrs. Clinton by agreeing to a second debate before March 4, when Texas, Ohio, Rhode Island and Vermont hold primaries. 
 But he did not mention that to his audiences Monday. Instead, he said in Baltimore, ''I'm happy to have a debate with John McCain, because we are the party of tomorrow, he's the party of yesterday. He's the past, we're the future.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A headline on Tuesday about presidential campaigning leading up to three primaries that day referred incorrectly to the contests. They were held in two states and the District of Columbia, not in three states.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain, top, campaigned in Annapolis, Md., where he once served as a midshipman in the Navy. Mike Huckabee looked for votes in Richmond, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton greeting supporters Monday in Rosslyn, Va. Voting will take place on Tuesday in Virginia, Maryland and the District of Columbia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: THE NEW YORK TIMES DELEGATE COUNT: Senator Barack Obama won 48 delegates and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton won 27 in the primaries on Feb. 9. Because final tallies are not available in all states, delegate counts in those that are still counting can vary among news organizations. Chart showing the delegate count according to The New York Times. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (65%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (90%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



316 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Dozens of Companies Underpay or Misreport Workers, State Says

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
A new crackdown on employers in New York State that are paying workers off the books has snared dozens of companies and uncovered millions of dollars in violations, state officials said on Monday.
 In 15 enforcement sweeps, state investigators found $19 million in wages that were not reported to the state and $3 million in underpayments to workers, the state's labor commissioner, M. Patricia Smith, said at a news conference. Investigators also uncovered nearly $1 million in taxes that had not been paid to the state's unemployment insurance fund.
 ''We think this not only is going well in terms of collecting money, but it's having a real deterrent impact,'' Ms. Smith said about the sweeps. 
 The sweeps grew out of a task force that Gov. Eliot Spitzer set up in September to crack down on companies that illegally classify employees as independent contractors, often to avoid paying unemployment insurance taxes and workers' compensation premiums.
 ''I created this task force as a part of my economic security agenda to reduce longstanding abuses of workers and to level the playing field for law-abiding businesses,'' Mr. Spitzer said in a statement on Monday.
 Mr. Spitzer set up the task force after several labor leaders had complained that unionized trucking companies and construction contractors were being undercut by competitors that classified many of their employees as independent contractors.
 ''The misclassification of employees is not just a labor problem, it is an economic and human rights crisis,'' said Gary La Barbera, president of the New York City Central Labor Council and president of Teamsters Local 282, which represents truck drivers for the construction industry.
 Ms. Smith said the sweeps focused on the construction and restaurant industries and sought to ferret out off-the-books work as well as the misclassification of workers as independent contractors. State officials said that worker misclassification -- from the failure to pay unemployment insurance taxes to failure to withhold income taxes -- causes substantial revenue losses at various levels of government.
 In their sweeps, which investigated 117 companies, state officials found that 2,078 employees had been misclassified as independent contractors. The task force also found 646 workers who were owed minimum and overtime wages totaling about $3 million.
 Ms. Smith noted that soon after being visited by the task force, one employer began paying unemployment insurance taxes for 205 employees it previously had not reported.
 The employers that were found in violation of various state labor laws will be required to pay back taxes, back wages and unpaid workers' compensation premiums, with state officials often assessing additional penalties. 
 The sweeps were undertaken by the state's Labor and Tax Departments, Workers' Compensation Board and attorney general's office, and the New York City comptroller's office. 
 ''I wouldn't doubt that 10 percent of the state's workers are either misclassified as independent contractors or work off the books,'' Ms. Smith said.
 She said that a higher percentage of employers misclassified workers upstate than downstate, and a higher percentage of employees worked off the books downstate.
 She said the state planned more sweeps that would look at not just the construction and restaurant industries, but also at car washes, janitorial firms and trucking companies.
 In conjunction with Monday's news conference, the task force released a 29-page report on employee misclassification. ''These trends appear to be increasing over the past decade,'' the report said, ''with large numbers of employees misclassified and therefore unprotected by the most basic labor rights.''
 The report called for a single statewide standard to determine whether a worker is an employee or independent contractor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); BACK PAY (78%); OVERTIME (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TRUCK DRIVERS (70%); TRUCKING (65%); RESTAURANTS (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



317 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors Say Ex-A.I.G. Executives Created a Fraud

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
Prosecutors in the trial of five former insurance executives insisted Monday in closing arguments that the defendants had deliberately mounted a fraud to allow the American International Group to manipulate its financial statements.
 But prosecutors avoided mention of Warren E. Buffett, the investor whose company Berkshire Hathaway owns the General Re Corporation, which helped A.I.G. on the questionable deal.
 Instead Eric Glover, a federal prosecutor, told jurors and a packed courtroom that four defendants from General Re knowingly worked with a fifth defendant, from A.I.G., to create a sham transaction that allowed A.I.G. to inflate its loss reserves improperly by $500 million in 2000 and 2001. Mr. Buffett was not accused of wrongdoing. 
 The transaction, whose accounting A.I.G. has acknowledged was improper, helped A.I.G. to assuage analysts that its loss reserves -- a crucial indicator -- were not too low, which in turn bolstered its flagging share price. 
 A.I.G., the insurance company, paid Gen Re $5 million fee for the deal -- an unusual arrangement. In their closing statements, defense lawyers questioned the reliability of two important government witnesses and criticized prosecutors for citing snippets of telephone conversations. 
 The summations, which are expected to continue Tuesday, come after a five-week trial in Federal District Court here. Jurors could begin deliberations as early as Wednesday.
 The two most prominent defendants are Ronald E. Ferguson, the former chief executive of General Re, and Elizabeth A. Monrad, Gen Re's former chief financial officer. 
 In the indictment last year, A.I.G.'s former chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg, was identified as an unindicted co-conspirator who was aware of the details of the deal. Mr. Greenberg has denied any wrongdoing.
 Prosecutors have treaded lightly with Mr. Buffett, whom they had put on a witness list but did not call to testify. Mr. Buffett has cooperated with investigators. 
 By contrast, defense lawyers highlighted what they contended was Mr. Buffett's knowledge of the deal. 
 A e-mail message in January 2001 from Mr. Ferguson to Mr. Buffett, released in court papers, says: ''Warren, just a quick note to let you know why I hesitated a moment when you mentioned the $5,000,000 fee on the reserve transaction. We are indeed charging a 1% fee but for some reason A.I.G. decided to split the deal in to two $250,000,000 tranches one to be registered in 2000 and one in 2001.''
 In his closing statement -- the first by the defense -- Reid Weingarten, who represents Ms. Monrad, put the blame on a low-level, unindicted A.I.G. accountant, whom he said had made an honest mistake that ''traveled up the food chain.'' 
 Mr. Weingarten derided the prosecution's description of the questionable transaction. ''You think that's the first time it's happened in the economic world of America?'' he asked the jurors. ''There's a whole industry that does it.'' 
 For more than two hours, Mr. Glover, the prosecutor, focused on what he called the secret side agreements and fake documentation intended to hide the lack of real risk transfer between A.I.G. and Gen Re -- something needed for the deal to be legitimate. 
 ''The defendants knew the true deal and documented the false one,'' Mr. Glover said. Avoiding complex arcana, he told the jurors to ''follow the money'' and to compare the workings of the deal to buying ordinary car insurance. ''Remember that no one pays you to insure your car,'' he said of the $5 million fee.
 Mr. Glover played telephone recordings that he said showed that the defendants, in particular Ms. Monrad, knew the deal was improper. In several of them, Ms. Monrad can be heard laughing, saying that with regard to the fee arrangement, ''if we ever talked about it, our name would be mud.''
 Mr. Weingarten, Ms. Monrad's lawyer, slammed Mr. Glover for what he said was taking calls out of context. 
 Intoning before the jury, Mr. Weingarten repeatedly pointed his finger and swept his arms. He repeatedly said, ''Oh, my God!'' in mock tones, apparently to illustrate his contention that nothing deliberately fraudulent had occurred. And he suggested that the unusual fee arrangement was in part motivated by Ms. Monrad's effort to ''make up to'' A.I.G. for a failed film-financing deal with Gen Re. 
 Mr. Weingarten also questioned the memory and credibility of the two prosecution witnesses -- John Houldsworth and Richard Napier, both former senior Gen Re executives, who have pleaded guilty to fraud. 
 Ms. Monrad, who worked briefly as the chief financial officer of TIAA-CREF, a large investment manager, after leaving A.I.G., stood out in a sea of gray suits in a light pink sweater. 
 The defendants are variously charged with 16 counts of conspiracy, including securities fraud, mail fraud and submitting false statements to the Securities and Exchange Commission, over 2000 to 2003. 
 The other defendants are Christian Milton, A.I.G.'s former head of reinsurance; Robert Graham, Gen Re's former senior vice president and assistant general counsel; and Christopher P. Garand, a former Gen Re senior vice president. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INDICTMENTS (79%); INSURANCE (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GENERAL RE CORP (84%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



318 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: How Self-Serving Can They Get?

 BODY:
If there ever was a time for New York legislators to get a pay raise, this isn't it. Gov. Eliot Spitzer has just warned that the state's economic forecast is bleaker than he thought only weeks ago, and he is proposing an array of cuts in the state's $124 billion budget. Like mayors and governors all over the country, Mr. Spitzer is readying the state for an economic storm. 
 It is clearly a time to think about cutting back -- but not for some members of the Legislature, who have been quietly pushing a pay raise for themselves. Remember, this is a part-time Legislature in which each member earns at least $79,500 a year, with additional stipends for running a committee or for traveling to Albany, plus gold-plated health and pension plans. 
 Many also have private jobs, and they have written the rules so that they don't have to tell the public much of anything about that nonpublic work. In a particularly galling case of political hardball, until they get a raise, these part-timers are holding up raises for state court judges, who work full-time and are woefully underpaid.
 All of this comes as Mr. Spitzer has just projected that revenues from taxes this year will be at least $384 million less than last month's predictions. That may not be the last downward revision. At the same time, President Bush has proposed a federal budget that continues to cut back on revenue sharing. That affects health care, housing, homeland security, environmental programs and other funds for states and local governments. That forces governments like New York's to scale back their own spending in ways that seldom get blamed on the real culprits in Washington. 
 Mr. Spitzer has announced plans to shift $25 million in vital environmental spending into the general revenue pot. He also wants to cut payments to hospitals and nursing homes and send most of the savings on to physicians or community clinics. It is a hard balancing act, but one that could end up being worthwhile if these shifts increase New York's abysmally low reimbursement rates for doctors who care for Medicaid patients.
 Each plea for more funds by another needy group that is facing cutbacks should take more air out of the talk of a legislative pay raise. James Tedisco, the leading Republican in the Assembly, had it right last week. When the state is suffering from a $4.4 billion deficit, he said, a pay raise for legislators simply ''defies logic.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); NURSING HOMES (69%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (64%); HOSPITALS (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (61%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



319 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 956 words

PERSON: Tom Lantos 

HEADLINE: Tom Lantos, 80, Is Dead; Longtime Congressman

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Representative Tom Lantos of California, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the only Holocaust survivor ever to serve in Congress, died on Monday. He was 80.
 His death, at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., was announced by Lynne A. Weil, a spokeswoman for his office. Mr. Lantos said last month that he had cancer of the esophagus and would retire early next year, at the end of his 14th term.
 Mr. Lantos, a Democrat, represented a district that includes southwest San Francisco as well as his hometown, San Mateo. He became chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee early last year after the Democrats had regained control of the House. 
 The congressman was known as a strong defender of human rights, an ardent supporter of Israel and an outspoken critic of Communism. He also worked for stronger protections for animals and the environment. 
 ''Tom was a living reminder,'' President Bush said in a statement Monday, ''that we must never turn a blind eye to the suffering of the innocent at the hands of evil men.'' 
 Mr. Bush called Mr. Lantos ''a man of character and a champion of human rights,'' and cited his role as a founder of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, created in 1983. 
 Mr. Lantos voted in 2002 to authorize the Bush administration to use force against Iraq. But as Foreign Affairs chairman he criticized the administration's handling of the war and was a co-sponsor of a resolution last year opposing Mr. Bush's buildup of troops.
 It was his defense of human rights, though, that most clearly defined a Congressional career that lasted nearly three decades. That focus was an outgrowth of his experience during the Holocaust, in which much of his family, including his mother, perished. 
 Mr. Lantos, a Hungarian-born Jew who was 16 when the Nazis occupied his native country, once said his entire life had served as preparation for the chairmanship of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Though he held the post for little more than a year, the committee took a number of bold steps in that time, demanding, for instance, that the government of Japan apologize for wartime sex slavery by its military and declaring Turkey's mass killing of Armenians in World War I an act of genocide, a move that angered the Bush administration and nearly provoked a confrontation with the Turkish government.
 He was frequently critical of China, citing its record on human rights, and was arrested outside the Sudanese Embassy in Washington in 2006 during a protest against the mass killings in Darfur. 
 Mr. Lantos had a tart tongue that could offend foreign leaders. In October, members of the Dutch Parliament said he had insulted them by pointedly telling them at a meeting that some Europeans were more outraged by the Guantanamo detention center than by Auschwitz. And he once called former Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany a ''political prostitute'' because of his ties to the Russian gas industry. 
 In a speech on the Senate floor on Monday, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, recalled working with Mr. Lantos to support democracy in Burma and to impose additional sanctions against Iran on the ground that it supported terrorism.
 Thomas Peter Lantos, born into a family of educators in Budapest, twice escaped from forced-labor camps after the Nazis occupied Hungary. His survival was due in part to the efforts of Raoul Wallenberg, the Swedish diplomat who saved thousands of Jews by issuing them Swedish-protected passports and declaring them Swedish subjects. ''This was like me declaring you to be prima ballerina of the St. Petersburg Ballet; it had no validity,'' Mr. Lantos was to say. And yet, he said, ''these miraculous, worthless pieces of paper worked.'' 
 One of Mr. Lantos's first acts after being elected to Congress in 1980 was to introduce legislation naming Wallenberg an honorary United States citizen. 
 Mr. Lantos was one of five Hungarian Holocaust survivors featured in the film ''The Last Days,'' which won the 1998 Academy Award for best documentary feature.
 After the war, Mr. Lantos managed to reunite with his childhood friend Annette Tillemann, who had escaped to Switzerland. They moved to the United States after he won a scholarship, and married in 1950. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees in economics at the University of Washington and then a doctorate in economics from the University of California.
 He taught economics at San Francisco State University from 1950 to 1980 and also served as a television commentator on international affairs. He was a member of the Presidential Task Force on Defense and Foreign Policy in 1976 and was an aide to Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, in 1978-79.
 Besides his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Annette Dick of Denver and Katrina Swett of Bow, N.H.; 17 grandchildren; and 2 great-grandchildren. Ms. Swett's husband, Richard Swett, is a former congressman from New Hampshire and onetime ambassador to Denmark. 
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who represents a district in San Francisco adjacent to Mr. Lantos's, called his death ''a profound loss for the Congress and for the nation and a terrible loss for me personally.'' 
 Looking back on his immigrant past, Mr. Lantos often declared himself an ''American by choice.''
 ''It is only in the United States that a penniless survivor of the Holocaust and a fighter in the anti-Nazi underground could have received an education, raised a family and had the privilege of serving the last three decades of his life as a member of Congress,'' he said in a statement last month on announcing he would retire. ''I will never be able to express fully my profoundly felt gratitude to this great country.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Lantos (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES, 2007 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HOLOCAUST (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NAVIES (77%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); WORLD WAR I (72%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); SLAVERY (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (56%); CANCER (56%); ARRESTS (50%)

TOM LANTOS (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (92%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); JAPAN (79%); ARMENIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



320 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: The Battle for the Democratic Prize

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Instead of going at each other all the way to the Democratic convention, it would be nice if these two very president-worthy candidates adopted a new policy for the remainder of the primary period.
 The public already has a pretty good idea of the differences between Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, so to continue trying to pull each other down is probably not going to be very constructive. 
 Competing against each other will give the Republicans a tremendous advantage over this time period. A more effective way to continue their campaigns would be for each of them to campaign against John McCain and the G.O.P. 
 By contrasting what they offer with what Mr. McCain has to offer, each one would continue to push his or her program, but in such a way as to combat the real opposition, not each other. 
 The primary elections will play themselves out in any event, with the electorate seeing the strengths of each Democratic candidate, while the G.O.P. programs will be seen for what they are. 
 I believe that if Senators Clinton and Obama really have the interests of this country at heart, and aren't driven simply by personal ambition and hunger for power, this would be the best way to show it and at the same time accomplish their aims.
 David Buchsbaum Newton, Mass., Feb. 9, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''Next Up for the Democrats: Civil War,'' by Frank Rich (column, Feb. 10):
 A yellow dog Democrat, I never imagined that I would be writing a negative response to Mr. Rich, whose insight has helped carry me through the Bush years. But I must. 
 Mr. Rich once again trumpets the evil that is the Clinton machine, and the disaster it would love to visit upon us. He joins a growing chorus of talkers, pundits, analysts and journalists who feel it is their duty to remind us of the dark, bleak soul of Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 There is one very large problem here. At last count, the highly energized race between Senator Clinton and Senator Barack Obama is neck and neck, with a roughly 50-50 split in the popular vote. This means that hundreds of thousands of Americans believe that Senator Clinton embodies the skills, expertise and vision that we would like to see represented in the president of the United States.
 I can assure you that few of us are stupid, uninformed, incapable of making a decision or somehow less full of hope and purity than the supporters of Mr. Obama.
 Please remember this: When you demonize Senator Clinton with such blatant hostility, you are doing the same to me and roughly half the Democratic Party. Every single one of us will be needed in November. 
 I can assure you, there is nothing to be gained from this, unless you happen to be John McCain.
 Patricia Esgate South Nyack, N.Y., Feb. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Barack Obama appeals to our better angels; Hillary Rodham Clinton does not.
 Rebecca Bahr New York, Feb. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The question is, Can you eat hope? Can you wear hope? When your house is foreclosed, can you live in a house made of hope? I think the answer is no. 
 Give me a president who is competent, who can bring results. What has Barack Obama done to inspire confidence? At least Hillary Rodham Clinton introduced legislation to help the foreclosure crisis. She has worked on health care issues and so on.
 Angela Worden Naples, Fla., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Where's the Big Idea?,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Feb. 9):
 I first voted in 1948. Then and ever since, I have asked the candidates, ''Don't tell me what we need and what you will do; tell me how you are going to do it.'' Sadly, I have to say, they never told me.
 Mr. Herbert is right to ask the candidates, What are your specifics to accomplish the things that need to be done -- the economy, health care, the war and the immigration problem? We, the voters, need to know who has particular plans to restore this country to its former glory.
 Robert E. Weil White Plains, Feb. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Revenge of Seamus,'' by Gail Collins (column, Feb. 9): 
 His multiple political conversions notwithstanding, Mitt Romney was consistent in one respect -- he pandered loathsomely throughout his campaign, and he pandered loathsomely at its end.
 Manu Rangachari Brighton, Mass., Feb. 9, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); FRANK RICH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



321 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Study Bares Transit Woes In New Jersey

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Though California is famous for its gridlocked freeways, no state beats New Jersey when it comes to congested highways. Commuters in New Jersey also have the third-longest travel time to work -- exceeding California's -- even though the state also has the second-highest percentage of mass transportation use. 
 The figures, in a study from Rutgers University on the public's perceptions of investment in transportation, come at a time when Gov. Jon S. Corzine is pushing a plan to raise tolls drastically to pay for such ambitious projects as widening the New Jersey Turnpike and building rail tunnels into Manhattan.
 The study, prepared by the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center at Rutgers, does not explicitly take a stand on the governor's plan, which is opposed by every Republican in the Legislature and by many residents.
 But the study calls for further investment in the state's transportation infrastructure, which is the goal of Mr. Corzine's plan to raise tolls by 50 percent every four years starting from 2010 through 2022, including increases for inflation. The money would be used to pay off half of the state's $32 billion debt and refinance the Transportation Trust Fund.
 With the fund on life support and the state's roads, trains and buses clogged, the study says the need for more investment is critical.
 ''If congestion and transportation costs rise significantly because of inadequate investment, existing businesses and residents will increasingly choose to relocate outside of the state and region,'' the report said.
 Public transportation is an efficient use of funds, the report said. New Jersey Transit received $702.5 million in direct state support in fiscal 2005, equal to about $2.88 a trip, or less than the price of a gallon of gas, for each light rail, train or bus passenger a year.
 New Jersey was behind only New York in mass transportation use, and residents in New York and Maryland had longer commutes than those in New Jersey, the study said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); RELOCATIONS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



322 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-11
 Armed Robbers Steal Masterworks in Zurich
 Three men wearing ski masks walked into a Zurich museum in broad daylight, grabbed four 19th-century masterpieces and sped off in a van. It was one of the largest and most audacious art robberies of all time and the second multimillion-dollar art heist in Switzerland in a week. A6 
 Pakistan Deal Disrupts Hunt 
 A cease-fire negotiated during a military operation against one of Pakistan's most wanted men has raised new questions about the Pakistani government's commitment to combating militancy. A8 
 Gates Backs Troop-Cut Pause
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said that he supports a pause in American troop reductions in Iraq, an authoritative indication that the United States will maintain a large force in the country through 2008. A10 
 Car Bombs Kill 11 in Baghdad
 Two car bombs exploded in Baghdad, killing at least 11 people in what appeared to be a coordinated attack on a leader of the citizens groups that have turned against Sunni insurgents. A10 
 Two CBS journalists are missing in the southern Iraqi city of Basra, the network said in a brief statement. A10 
 Tracking Fake Malaria Drugs
 An investigation in which pollen analysis was used to track down counterfeit malaria medicine in China, leading to the arrest of a crime ring, offers a new model for attacking a flood of fake antimalarial drugs. A10 
 NATIONALA12-19
 Death Sentences Sought For 6 Guantanamo Inmates
 Military prosecutors filed capital charges against six Guantanamo detainees for their roles in the Sept. 11 terror attacks. A14
 Arizona's Immigrant Exodus
 The weakening economy coupled with curbs on illegal immigration may be steering Hispanic immigrants out of Arizona, according to economists, business people and immigration groups.A13 
 A new projection shows the foreign-born population in the United States will surpass its historic 19th century peak of nearly 15 percent. A12
 Clinton Sees Must-Win States
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and her advisers increasingly believe that she has been boxed into a must-win position in the Ohio and Texas primaries. A1
 Senator Barack Obama hoped his colorblind style of politics would lift the country above historic racial tensions, but his bid for the presidency has been pulled into the thick of them.A1
 Gauging Reactor Attack Risk
 The risk of a terrorist attack on any of the 26 nuclear reactors on college campuses has been underestimated by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Congressional auditors say.A18
 Official Arrested in Spy Case
 A Defense Department official was arrested in Virginia and charged with passing classified documents about Taiwan's arms purchases to China.A14
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-6
 Hospitals Pay Attention To Emergency Rooms
 New York City hospitals are spending hundreds of millions of dollars renovating, rebuilding and expanding their emergency rooms, and taking steps to introduce civility and even hospitality to what has long been a legendary circle of medical hell.A1 
 Lobbyists Fight New Law
 The real estate industry and lobbyists, who together provide millions in campaign cash for New York City candidates, are trying to overturn a new law that would vastly reduce how much they could donate. B1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-12 
 A Pervasive Problem
 As home prices fall and banks tighten lending standards, even people with good, or prime, credit histories are falling behind on their house payments, auto loans and credit cards at a quickening pace, according to industry data and economists. A1 
 Today in BusinessC2 
 SCIENCE TIMESF1-8
 Mimicry Leads to Rapport
 Psychologists have found that immediate social bonding between strangers is highly dependent on mimicry, a synchronized and usually unconscious give and take of words and gestures that creates a current of good will between two people. F1 
 Health & FitnessF5 
 EDITORIALA20-21
 Editorials: Gates, truth and Afghanistan; how self-serving can they get?; the cold war threat to the Navajo; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the photographs of Jacob Riis.
 Columns: David Brooks and Bob Herbert.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (90%); ROBBERY (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); MALARIA (87%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (87%); ARRESTS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (85%); ART THEFT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CAPITAL CRIMES (77%); MILITARY OFFENSES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (72%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (71%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); SENTENCING (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); PRISONS (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (63%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (60%); ENERGY REGULATION (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ROBERT M GATES (69%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) SWITZERLAND (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); TAIWAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



323 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Virginia's Diversity Offers a Challenge to Democrats

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Va. 

 BODY:
With just a day left in which to decide, Priscilla Baker remained torn between voting for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator Barack Obama in the Democratic presidential primary here on Tuesday.
 Mrs. Baker, 67, of Lexington, who is black, said Monday that she liked the health care plan and greater experience of Mrs. Clinton, of New York, but that she was also inspired by the personality of Mr. Obama, of Illinois. 
 ''He seems like he would learn quickly enough if given the chance,'' said Mrs. Baker, a retired nurse. She added that several weeks ago she had decided to vote in the primary based solely on who had the better chance to beat Senator John McCain, the front-runner for the Republican nomination. 
 ''Problem is,'' she said with a laugh, ''even that's not entirely clear to me yet.'' 
 Many voters in Virginia are similarly perplexed, and both Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton have been campaigning to win them over, and the state's 101 delegates to the national convention. 
 Mr. Obama is expected to energize blacks, who make up nearly 20 percent of voters in the state. But Larry J. Sabato, director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia, said black voters might, in fact, play an even greater role because in the past they had turned out in disproportionately greater numbers than other groups, as much as 35 percent. 
 Mrs. Clinton, on the other hand, expects to do well in suburbs and the state's economically struggling rural southwestern region, where unemployment is high. She easily won majorities last Tuesday in many rural counties in Missouri and Tennessee, which share some of Virginia's demographic and cultural traits.
 The state has open primaries, so no party registration is required to vote on Tuesday, and Mr. Obama has shown more of an ability to attract independent and Republican voters. Mark R. Warner, a former Democratic governor, has said he will not endorse a candidate, but Gov. Tim Kaine and Mayor L. Douglas Wilder of Richmond, who was the nation's first elected black governor, have backed Mr. Obama, saying he is best equipped to beat whomever the Republican Party nominates.
 Like elsewhere, younger voters in Virginia have flocked to Mr. Obama.
 ''Obama represents change, and that speaks to people my age,'' said Roy McKenzie, 19, a member of the Young Democrats at Roanoke College. Asked what policy changes Mr. Obama would bring that were more attractive than Mrs. Clinton's plans, Mr. McKenzie paused before explaining that it was more how Mr. Obama did things than what he planned to do that attracted young people. 
 He recounted how he and his roommate, who is the president of the Roanoke College Democrats, sent an e-mail message to people on a Democratic mailing list about an Obama event, and within minutes R.S.V.P.'s were streaming in. There is not that kind of excitement with Clinton supporters on campus, he said. 
 Mrs. Clinton seemed to be trying to counter this excitement as she toured the state. ''People say to me all the time, 'You're so specific. You talk about all these things you want to do. Why don't you just come and really just give us one of these great rhetorical flourishes and then get everybody all worked up?' '' she said to a crowd at a middle school Sunday in Manassas. ''I want you to hold me accountable. I want you to know what I intend to do as your president.''
 But at a high school gym in Alexandria. Mr. Obama continued hammering his message of change.
 ''I think it's very hard for Senator Clinton to break out of the politics of the past 15 years,'' he said, adding that she ''starts off with 47 percent of the country against her. 
 ''That's a hard place to start,'' he added.
 Robert D. Holsworth, a political scientist at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, cautioned against overestimating the youth vote.
 About a third of students at state universities are from out of state and cannot vote in the primary, Dr. Holsworth said, and many of those who can have not registered. 
 Here in Lexington, about 100 miles northeast of Roanoke, on the campus of Washington and Lee University, Richard Friedman, 22, a senior, said he had witnessed the excitement Mr. Obama has generated. 
 ''He represents the clearest break from the status quo when it comes to how Washington works,'' Mr. Friedman said. But he said he was backing Mrs. Clinton in part for that very reason. 
 ''Clinton may be a Washington insider,'' he said, ''but she also knows how to deal with special interests, how to get Congress on board with difficult issues, and she has laid out a clearer plan for what she wants to accomplish in terms of health care and education.'' 
 Still, Mr. Friedman said that Mr. Obama's momentum was undeniable.
 On Jan. 26, when the university held its mock convention, a quadrennial tradition in which student delegates try to predict the presidential nominee of the political party currently out of the White House, the student applause was far louder for Mr. Obama than it was for Mrs. Clinton, he said. Still, the convention predicted that Mrs. Clinton would win the primary.
 ''The applause said one thing and the research said another,'' said Mr. Friedman, who was general chairman for the convention. ''At the same time there is the intangible variable that can't really be captured by political science formulas, and that is emotion and enthusiasm, and I have to admit there was a lot of that in the room that day backing Obama.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about voters in Virginia in the lead-up to the Democratic primary that day misstated the distance between Lexington and Roanoke, two cities in the state where Senator Barack Obama was receiving strong support from young people. They are about 45 miles apart, not 100.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Women at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, where Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke to a class on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY TEMPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (82%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIM KAINE (79%); MARK WARNER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (71%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



324 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: When Reality Bites

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
There's a big difference between the Republican and Democratic campaigns: The Republicans have split on policy grounds; the Democrats haven't. There's been a Republican divide between center and right, yet no Democratic divide between center and left. 
 But when you think about it, the Democratic policy unity is a mirage. If the Democrats actually win the White House, the tensions would resurface with a vengeance. 
 The first big rift would involve Iraq. Both Senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama have seductively hinted that they would withdraw almost all U.S. troops within 12 to 16 months. But if either of them actually did that, he or she would instantly make Iraq the consuming partisan fight of their presidency. 
 There would be private but powerful opposition from Arab leaders, who would fear a return to 2006 chaos. There would be irate opposition from important sections of the military, who would feel that the U.S. was squandering the gains of the previous year. A Democratic president with few military credentials would confront outraged and highly photogenic colonels screaming betrayal.
 There would be important criticism from nonpartisan military experts. In his latest report, the much-cited Anthony Cordesman describes an improving Iraqi security situation that still requires ''strategic patience'' and another five years to become self-sustaining.
 There would be furious opposition from Republicans and many independents. They would argue that you can't evacuate troops just as Iraqis are about to hold national elections and tensions are at their highest. They would point out that it's insanity to end local reconstruction and Iraqi training efforts just when they are producing results. They would accuse the new administration of reverse-Rumsfeldism, of ignoring postsurge realities and of imposing an ideological solution on a complex situation.
 All dreams of changing the tone in Washington would be gone. All of Obama's unity hopes would evaporate. And if the situation did deteriorate after a quick withdrawal, as the National Intelligence Estimate warns, the bloodshed would be on the new president's head.
 Therefore, when a new Democratic administration considered all these possibilities, its members would part ways. A certain number of centrists would conclude that rapid withdrawal is a mistake. They would say that the situation had changed and would call for a strategic review. They'd recommend a long, slow conditions-based withdrawal -- constant, small troop reductions, and a lot of regional diplomacy, while maintaining tens of thousands of troops in Iraq for the remainder of the term.
 The left wing of the party would go into immediate uproar. They'd scream: This was a central issue of the campaign! All the troops must get out now!
 The president would have to make a terrible decision.
 Which brings us to second looming Democratic divide: domestic spending. Both campaigns now promise fiscal discipline, as well as ambitious new programs. These kinds of have-your-cake-and-eat-it-too vows were merely laughable last year when the federal deficit was running at a manageable $163 billion a year. But the economic slowdown, the hangover from the Bush years and the growing bite of entitlements mean that the federal deficit will almost certainly top $400 billion by 2009. The accumulated national debt will be in shouting distance of the $10 trillion mark. With that much red ink, the primary-season spending plans are simply ridiculous.
 It'd be 1993 all over again. The new Democratic president would be faced with Bill Clinton's Robert Rubin vs. Robert Reich choice: either scale back priorities for the sake of fiscal discipline or blow through all known deficit records for the sake of bigger programs. Choose the former, and the new president would further outrage the left. Choose the latter and lose the financial establishment and the political center.
 This is the debate that Democrats have been quietly rearguing during the entire Bush presidency. The left wing of the party is absolutely committed to winning it this time. It will likely demand the clean energy subsidies and the education spending, the expensive health care coverage and subsides to address middle-class anxiety. But no Democratic president can afford to offend independent voters with runaway spending. No president can easily ignore the think tank establishment, which is rightfully exercised about the nation's long-term fiscal health.
 It would be another brutal choice.
 As William J. Stuntz of Harvard Law School wrote in The Weekly Standard, the Democrats have conducted their race amid unconstrained ''Yes We Can!'' unreality. Because the Democratic candidates appear to agree on so much, they've never tested each other's policy proposals or exposed each other's assumptions. But governing means choosing, and reality will be unkind. The artificial unity between the Democratic center and the Democratic left would be smashed by the harsh choices of 2009. My guess? The centrists would win. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



325 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: No End in Sight

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
February can't end soon enough for Senator Hillary Clinton.
 She may still end up winning the Democratic presidential nomination, but a month's worth of television images and front-page photos of Barack Obama basking in the glow of a series of easy caucus and primary wins is potentially devastating.
 The biggest danger for Senator Clinton is that she comes to be viewed as a weak candidate and likely loser in November before voters go to the polls in the big states that she is counting on as a fire wall next month. 
 ''I'm worried,'' said a major Clinton supporter in New York, who asked not to be identified because he did not want to be seen as undermining a sense of optimism in the campaign. Referring to today's contests in Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia, he said: ''She can't afford to get blown out in all the Potomac races. After awhile, the momentum from all these Obama victories can become so strong it's unstoppable.''
 He added: ''There's already a lot of pressure being put on the superdelegates to go with his momentum.''
 The Clinton forces hope to beat Senator Obama in the big, delegate-rich states of Ohio, Texas and Pennsylvania, and to hold onto their advantage with superdelegates -- party regulars and activists who can vote however they'd like. In that scenario, it would be very difficult for Senator Obama to secure the nomination.
 But the Ohio and Texas primaries are not until March 4, and the Pennsylvania primary is April 22. Meanwhile, Senator Obama is continuing to draw enormous crowds, is generating tremendously favorable media coverage and is trying to craft an image of his campaign as an unstoppable force.
 Maggie Williams, a longtime Clinton aide, was officially installed as Clinton's campaign manager on Sunday to stop the bleeding.
 There are other risks Mrs. Clinton faces going forward. She is not a natural politician, and Mr. Obama is. She does not have a gift for public speaking. He does. And there are legions of Democratic officeholders, former officeholders and party officials who have something less than a rosy view of Bill Clinton's presidency and its aftermath. They aren't interested in a restoration.
 At a rally Sunday in Virginia Beach, Senator Obama said, ''Keep in mind, we had Bill Clinton as president when, in '94, we lost the House, we lost the Senate, we lost governorships, we lost state houses.''
 While they are not anxious to talk about it publicly, many Democrats still speak bitterly in private about the damage inflicted on the party during the tumultuous Clinton White House years, including the loss of the presidency to George W. Bush.
 But as worried as the Clinton forces are, there are dangers ahead for Senator Obama as well, and for the Democratic Party as a whole.
 The Democrats are entering a weird stage of the campaign. Some of the euphoria about the history-making aspects of the Clinton and Obama campaigns is giving way to anxiety over how long their fight for the nomination will continue, and whether that long and increasingly bitter struggle is damaging the party's chances in November.
 As for Senator Obama, he has been winning consistently in caucus states but has not done as well in states with primaries, which tend to give a better read of a candidate's overall appeal with voters. Ohio, Texas and Pennsylvania are all primary states.
 And even many of Senator Obama's supporters would like to be reassured about his approach to foreign policy, his readiness to assume the duties of commander in chief and his plans for dealing with economic issues that seem to grow more dire by the day.
 Under ordinary circumstances, this would be a blowout year for Democrats. The nation is tired of the war, tired of eight years of the Bush administration and worried sick about the economy. And Democratic voters, energized by the prospect of change, have been turning out in tremendous numbers.
 But the Democrats, to their credit, have placed a woman and an African-American at the head of the line for the party's nomination. It's a step that augurs well for the country, but at the same time it's unlikely that either of them will have an easy time winning in November. 
 There comes a point in a campaign that lasts too long when there are diminishing returns all around.
 The big question for Democrats is whether Senators Clinton and Obama, whose camps don't like each other, can conduct themselves in the long slog ahead in a way that does not undermine the party's ability to win in November.
 It's not yet clear that they can. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); SUPERDELEGATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



326 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: In Baghdad, Gates Backs a Pause in Troop Withdrawals; Democrats Take Issue

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said for the first time Monday that he supported a pause in American troop reductions in Iraq. It was the most authoritative indication to date that the United States will maintain a large force here through 2008 and into the next presidential term.
 His assertion, which was something of a surprise, immediately became an issue for Democrats in the presidential campaign, who have made American withdrawal from Iraq a major priority. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator Barack Obama criticized Mr. Gates and reiterated their intention to bring all the troops home at a rapid pace if one of them wins the White House in November. 
 Meeting with top commanders here, Mr. Gates said that after the departure this summer of the five extra combat brigades sent last year in ''the surge'' to pacify the Baghdad area, the American command should assess whether further troop reductions would hurt security. 
 In practical terms, his assertion makes it likely that American troop levels in Iraq will not drop much below 130,000 this year -- and certainly not to the 100,000 level advocated by some military officials and analysts worried about the protracted strain on the Army from long deployments in the nearly five-year-old Iraq war. 
 ''I think that the notion of a brief period of consolidation and evaluation probably does make sense,'' Mr. Gates told reporters in Baghdad.
 While Gen. David H. Petraeus, the senior commander in Iraq, had hinted that he would recommend a freezing of troop levels, the endorsement by Mr. Gates suggested that such a freeze was far more certain. President Bush has said he will place great emphasis on General Petraeus's recommendations.
 Within the Bush administration, Mr. Gates had been seen as a potential counterpoint to General Petraeus's calls for caution about withdrawing troops. In recent months, Mr. Gates has said he hopes that by the end of 2008, American troop levels could be reduced to a level significantly smaller than the 130,000 or so that will be reached in July. 
 General Petraeus's formal recommendations on postsurge troop levels will be delivered to the president this spring. Mr. Bush has repeatedly said that he will do whatever is necessary to sustain gains in security made with the troop increase.
 Mr. Gates met for two hours on Monday with General Petraeus and Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, who is ending 15 months as the No. 2 commander in Iraq. 
 After that meeting, Mr. Gates acknowledged that his assessment on whether to recommend that Mr. Bush put off additional troop withdrawals had been developing at the same time and along the same lines as that of the commanders'. ''I had been kind of headed in that direction, as well,'' Mr. Gates said.
 But the defense secretary cautioned that significant questions were still to be decided, including ''how long is that period'' of a pause in troop cuts, and ''what happens after that.''
 Mr. Gates emphasized that the president had still made no decisions, and that Mr. Bush would receive separate assessments from General Petraeus, from commanders responsible for the broader Middle East, and from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who would evaluate the strain on the force and global threats.
 Officials worried about stress on the ground forces had expressed hopes that troop levels in Iraq could begin dropping toward 100,000 this year.
 The top Democratic candidates, who have said they favor more rapid troop reductions in Iraq, were harsh in their criticism of Mr. Gates.
 ''This means that we will have as many troops in Iraq in the summer of 2008 as we had at the beginning of 2007,'' Senator Clinton said. 
 Senator Obama said in a statement that ''we cannot wage war without end in Iraq while ignoring mounting costs to our troops and their families, our security and our economy.''
 Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, had little reaction to Mr. Gates's statement while campaigning in Richmond, Va. ''All I know is that I have had many conversations with Secretary Gates, and I know that we will be guided by the recommendations of General Petraeus.''
 Mr. McCain was an early advocate of the troop increase in Iraq and has said repeatedly that the United States should have a presence in Iraq for many years.
 After his meetings at the headquarters at Camp Victory, near the Baghdad airport, Mr. Gates visited Forward Operating Base Falcon in the Rashid neighborhood of southern Baghdad.
 The troop increase ordered by Mr. Bush in January 2007 acknowledged that Baghdad was the center of gravity for security in the nation. The goal of adding combat forces was to drive terrorists from the city and from a belt of communities around the capital, as well as to suppress insurgent groups and sectarian death squads.
 Maj. Gen. Jeffery W. Hammond, commander of Multinational Division-Baghdad, said overall attacks in his area of responsibility had declined 75 percent, to 353 last month from a high last June of 1,425.
 He said his goal was to spread American and allied forces even farther into the neighborhoods, and to establish additional forward posts and security stations.
 ''We are not going to give back any territory,'' General Hammond said referring to progress made against insurgents and terrorists. ''Not in Baghdad.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates met with Iraqi officials on Monday in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, VIA A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (92%); DAVID PETRAEUS (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RAY ODIERNO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008



327 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Acknowledges Much Steeper Write-Off On Complex Securities

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Accounting flaws at American International Group significantly understated the insurance giant's losses on complex financial instruments linked to mortgages and corporate debt, A.I.G. said on Monday, raising new questions about the deteriorating health of financial companies. 
 The disclosure stunned Wall Street and raised concern that other companies could report similar problems related to instruments known as credit default swaps. The news sent A.I.G. stock tumbling 12 percent, or $5.94, to $44.74, its lowest level in a year.
''We are going to see more and more problems come to light like this,'' said Lynn E. Turner, a former chief accountant at the Securities and Exchange Commission. ''This is an indication that these large financial institutions do not have the risk management systems in place to give us accurate data.''
 In a securities filing, A.I.G. said it would take a $4.88 billion charge related to a decline in the value of credit default swaps. That is roughly five times the charge the company suggested it would take in early December. 
 A.I.G. said its longtime auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, had found ''material weakness'' with the company's financial reporting practices for valuing the swaps, which are derivatives that provide insurance against a decline in credit quality. 
 A.I.G. had previously developed proprietary systems using market data and financial models. But because swaps are thinly traded, they are often difficult to price accurately. A.I.G.'s initial models could not reliably estimate the benefits of owning the less risky parts of the instruments. As a result, what the company originally suggested would be a roughly $1 billion loss is now likely to swell to about $5 billion. 
 A.I.G. said in its filing that it is ''still accumulating market data'' to update its valuations but that it believes it has the necessary ''controls and procedures to appropriately determine the fair value.'' 
 Chris Winans, an A.I.G. spokesman, said the company still planned to file its 2007 financial statements at the end of this month. 
 The development is a major setback for A.I.G., the world's biggest insurance company, which has been struggling to win back Wall Street's trust after a string of scandals. Over the last three years, the company has been the target of multiple criminal and civil investigations. At one point, its books were in such disarray that its auditors refused to endorse them, and its longtime chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg, was forced out. 
 Its profit has also been ravaged by three big hurricanes and a South Asian earthquake, and investors remain concerned about the company's exposure to the subprime mortgage crisis. Shares of A.I.G. have fallen about 30 percent since 2005.
 The company received more bad news on Monday when Fitch Ratings warned that it might lower A.I.G.'s credit rating in light of the disclosure. On top of current market conditions, Fitch said that the troubles contribute to uncertainty regarding the value of A.I.G.'s portfolio.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (79%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (59%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (59%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (59%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



328 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: With the Stimulus Package, the Big Winner Could Be Small Business

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
Businesses, large and small, will be directly helped by the new economic stimulus legislation passed by Congress last week. But small businesses, in particular, may get the biggest lift indirectly -- from consumers spending their tax rebates.
 The $168 billion measure, which was approved by both houses of Congress with uncommon swiftness, includes rebates for taxpayers and incentives for businesses, all intended to bolster the sagging economy. President Bush is expected to sign it this week.
 Bars, restaurants and other retailers are counting on increased business from consumers who will start getting their tax rebate checks in May. ''That's where small businesses will benefit the most,'' said Barbara Weltman, a lawyer and small-business tax specialist in Millwood, N.Y. 
 Smaller companies like Dahm Trucking in Woodstock, Ill., and McCutcheon's Apple Products in Frederick, Md., are poised to benefit from the provisions aimed at businesses. The National Federation of Independent Business, an advocacy group in Washington, lobbied on their behalf.
 ''Small businesses are doing better than the rest of the economy,'' said Dan Danner, the group's executive vice president. ''They are one sector that continues to create jobs, but they are not doing as good as they could do. If you're going to stimulate the economy, this is the group to help.''
 The legislation helps businesses in two ways. It gives companies a 50 percent bonus deduction on new equipment that would normally be depreciated over many years. And it increases -- to $250,000 from $128,000 in 2008 -- the limit on expenses that small businesses can deduct from annual income, with a total cap of $800,000. 
 For a small business like Dahm Trucking, which has annual revenue over $5 million, the most valuable provision is the increased expensing. 
 Now, Chris Dahm, its president, said he could buy three trailers, at $100,000 apiece. That means Mr. Dahm can enter contracts with three independent owner-operator truck drivers to haul goods on the trailers, and add a person to his two-member office staff. ''It's going to help us out quite a bit,'' he said.
 Had there been no government intervention, he said, he would have had to just ''sit and wait to see what happens.'' Expansion would have been out of the question, he added, while layoffs were possible.
 Business was ''very poor'' in the fourth quarter, Mr. Dahm said, and so far this year, ''it has been a disaster.'' While some of the slowdown is seasonal, he said, steel shipments have dropped sharply. That also happened during recessions in the 1980s and early '90s.
 Mr. Danner of the advocacy group said many more smaller companies that are in a position to invest in office equipment, vehicles, machinery, and the like would do so.
 McCutcheon's Apple Products, which is in the process of completing a major retail expansion, will take advantage of the bonus depreciation, an owner, Bob McCutcheon, said.
 ''We are looking to spend up to $6.5 million on our building,'' he said. ''The accelerated depreciation will mean we will pay less taxes for quite some time.'' 
 Instead of depreciating the cost over a longer period, the family-run business can deduct 50 percent of the total cost this year and the normal depreciation of the remaining cost. ''It will give us a lot of money to hire more people and upgrade other systems,'' Mr. McCutcheon said. 
 Ms. Weltman cautioned owners to talk to their tax advisers to see if their businesses would be eligible to take advantage of the new provisions. ''It's a huge deal for some businesses,'' she said, ''but how many small businesses spend $250,000 a year for equipment?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); SHIPMENTS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); TRUCK DRIVERS (69%); LAYOFFS (63%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (61%); SALES REBATES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FREDERICK, MD, USA (56%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



329 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Totally Spent

BYLINE: By ROBERT B. REICH. 
Robert B. Reich, a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author, most recently, of ''Supercapitalism.''

DATELINE: Berkeley, Calif. 

 BODY:
 WE'RE sliding into recession, or worse, and Washington is turning to the normal remedies for economic downturns. But the normal remedies are not likely to work this time, because this isn't a normal downturn. 
 The problem lies deeper. It is the culmination of three decades during which American consumers have spent beyond their means. That era is now coming to an end. Consumers have run out of ways to keep the spending binge going. 
 The only lasting remedy, other than for Americans to accept a lower standard of living and for businesses to adjust to a smaller economy, is to give middle- and lower-income Americans more buying power -- and not just temporarily. 
 Much of the current debate is irrelevant. Even with more tax breaks for business like accelerated depreciation, companies won't invest in more factories or equipment when demand is dropping for products and services across the board, as it is now. And temporary fixes like a stimulus package that would give households a one-time cash infusion won't get consumers back to the malls, because consumers know the assistance is temporary. The problems most consumers face are permanent, so they are likely to pocket the extra money instead of spending it. 
 Another Fed rate cut might unfreeze credit markets and give consumers access to somewhat cheaper loans, but there's no going back to the easy money of a few years ago. Lenders and borrowers have been badly burned, and the values of houses and other assets are dropping faster than interest rates can be lowered.
 The underlying problem has been building for decades. America's median hourly wage is barely higher than it was 35 years ago, adjusted for inflation. The income of a man in his 30s is now 12 percent below that of a man his age three decades ago. Most of what's been earned in America since then has gone to the richest 5 percent.
 Yet the rich devote a smaller percentage of their earnings to buying things than the rest of us because, after all, they're rich. They already have most of what they want. Instead of buying, and thus stimulating the American economy, the rich are more likely to invest their earnings wherever around the world they can get the highest return.
 The problem has been masked for years as middle- and lower-income Americans found ways to live beyond their paychecks. But now they have run out of ways.
 The first way was to send more women into paid work. Most women streamed into the work force in the 1970s less because new professional opportunities opened up to them than because they had to prop up family incomes. The percentage of American working mothers with school-age children has almost doubled since 1970 -- to more than 70 percent. But there's a limit to how many mothers can maintain paying jobs. 
 So Americans turned to a second way of spending beyond their hourly wages. They worked more hours. The typical American now works more each year than he or she did three decades ago. Americans became veritable workaholics, putting in 350 more hours a year than the average European, more even than the notoriously industrious Japanese.
 But there's also a limit to how many hours Americans can put into work, so Americans turned to a third way of spending beyond their wages. They began to borrow. With housing prices rising briskly through the 1990s and even faster from 2002 to 2006, they turned their homes into piggy banks by refinancing home mortgages and taking out home-equity loans. But this third strategy also had a built-in limit. With the bursting of the housing bubble, the piggy banks are closing. 
 The bingeseems to be over. We're finally reaping the whirlwind of widening inequality and ever more concentrated wealth.
 The only way to keep the economy going over the long run is to increase the wages of the bottom two-thirds of Americans. The answer is not to protect jobs through trade protection. That would only drive up the prices of everything purchased from abroad. Most routine jobs are being automated anyway.
 A larger earned-income tax credit, financed by a higher marginal income tax on top earners, is required. The tax credit functions like a reverse income tax. Enlarging it would mean giving workers at the bottom a bigger wage supplement, as well as phasing it out at a higher wage. The current supplement for a worker with two children who earns up to $16,000 a year is about $5,000. That amount declines as earnings increase and is eliminated at about $38,000. It should be increased to, say, $8,000 at the low end and phased out at an income of $46,000.
 We also need stronger unions, especially in the local service sector that's sheltered from global competition. Employees should be able to form a union without the current protracted certification process that gives employers too much opportunity to intimidate or coerce them. Workers should be able to decide whether to form a union with a simple majority vote. 
 And employers who fire workers for trying to organize should have to pay substantial fines. Right now, the typical penalty is back pay for the worker, plus interest -- a slap on the wrist.
 Over the longer term, inequality can be reversed only through better schools for children in lower- and moderate-income communities. This will require, at the least, good preschools, fewer students per classroom and better pay for teachers in such schools, in order to attract the teaching talent these students need. 
 These measures are necessary to give Americans enough buying power to keep the American economy going. They are also needed to overcome widening inequality, and thereby keep America in one piece. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); PARENTS (70%); DEPRECIATION (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



330 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: In Price and Supply, Wheat Is the Unstable Staple

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
For decades, wheat was a commodity no American needed to think much about, except the farmers who grew it. The grain was usually plentiful and prices were low.
 All of a sudden, those assumptions have been turned upside down. With demand soaring abroad and droughts crimping supply, the world's wheat stockpiles have fallen to their lowest level in 30 years, and stocks in the United States have dropped to levels unseen since 1948. 
 Prices have been gyrating in recent days as traders tried to figure out what to make of the situation. On Tuesday, prices for a sought-after variety, spring wheat, jumped to $16.73 a bushel on the Minneapolis Grain Exchange, the latest of several records. 
 Prices for common wheat are up nearly 50 percent since August, and they are up even more for the most sought-after varieties, leaving buyers, growers and longtime commodity traders shaking their heads. 
 ''Anyone who tells you they've seen something like this is a liar,'' said Vince Boddicker of the Farmers Trading Company in Mitchell, S.D.
 Though this week's prices were nominal records, the inflation-adjusted record for wheat was set in the mid-1970s, when it exceeded $20 a bushel in today's dollars after huge sales to the Soviet Union. 
 Foreign buying is driving this market, too, but these buyers include South Korea, Taiwan, Mexico, Nigeria and Venezuela. Economic growth abroad has given people the means to improve their diets, and they are developing a taste for products made from wheat. 
 ''We haven't hit a price that has slowed the international interest,'' said Joe Victor of the commodity research firm Allendale. ''That is something that definitely has the market excited.''
 Among the consequences are stretched wallets at home and abroad as food processors pass along higher costs. 
 ''When the price of your raw material quadruples, you can't afford not to raise your prices,'' said Timothy Dodd, president and chief executive of the Dakota Growers Pasta Company in Carrington, N.D. ''Otherwise you're out of business.''
 In a Jan. 30 conference call, the chief executive of Kellogg, A. D. David Mackay, said, ''Everyone is feeling these inflationary pressures.'' General Mills cited rising ingredient costs when it increased cereal prices last June.
 The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations estimates that world wheat production will rise this year to nearly 664 million tons, from about 655 million tons -- not enough to replenish stocks and push down prices. In December, the organization noted that high international grain prices were causing food shortages, hoarding and even riots in some places.
 To damp volatility, three United States exchanges that trade wheat futures contracts have raised the daily limit on price movements from 30 cents to 60 cents during the past week.
 For the moment, the mania appeared to be halted in Chicago and Kansas City. March prices for soft red winter wheat, a low-protein wheat that is less favored than spring wheat, fell 41 cents Tuesday, to $10.07, in Chicago. 
 Egypt put out an offer for a large wheat purchase on Monday, but chose not to buy any. That prompted speculation that it was waiting for prices to fall. But Japan was reported to be bidding for 85,000 tons of American spring wheat. 
 ''When the last person who has to buy in a market does so, you have a top,'' Mr. Boddicker said. ''We're quickly approaching that point, if we haven't hit it already.''
 Few farmers have enough wheat on hand to take advantage of the recent increases, the trader said. Most sold last fall for prices that seemed good at the time.
 The United States Department of Agriculture's 10-year forecast, released Tuesday, sees the wheat shortage as temporary. Stockpiles were predicted to fall this year to 312 million bushels, from 456 million bushels, before rebounding to about 700 million bushels by the end of the decade.
 Higher prices ''will encourage additional acreage and production,'' the report said. Wheat plantings will rise to 65 million acres in the 2008-9 season, from 60.4 million this year, the Agriculture Department said, though it predicted the number would then fall because of competition from other crops.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wheat prices are hitting nominal records. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLINE BLUMBERG/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.C1)
 The wheat harvest in Kansas last June. ''Anyone who tells you they've seen something like this is a liar,'' one trader said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.C6) CHART: STILL BELOW THE PEAK: Nominal wheat prices have risen to their highest levels in decades but, adjusted for inflation, they are still below the peak in the mid-'70s. (Source: AgResource) (pg.C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PASTA & NOODLES (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); FOOD CHARITIES (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FARMERS' TRADING CO LTD (69%); DAKOTA GROWERS PASTA CO INC (63%); MINNEAPOLIS GRAIN EXCHANGE (56%); GENERAL MILLS INC (51%)

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (63%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (51%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (51%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (51%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: DAVID MACKAY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



331 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Writers Vote to End Strike, Putting Hollywood Back to Work

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Hollywood's writers made it official on Tuesday night, voting to end their bitterly fought strike at the 100-day mark by an overwhelming margin. 
 Of 3,775 writers who cast ballots, 92.5 percent voted in favor of ending the strike. Officials of the Writers Guild of America West and the Writers Guild of America East disclosed results of the tally here an hour after voting closed at 6 p.m. 
 ''The strike is over. Our membership has voted, and writers can go back to work,'' Patric M. Verrone, president of the West Coast guild, said in a statement. 
 The decision to end the strike became all but inevitable after the guilds' governing boards on Sunday unanimously approved the tentative three-year agreement with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, following strong expressions of support at mass meetings on both coasts. 
 Union members must still decide whether to ratify the contract in coming days. But Tuesday's vote to end the strike brought relief to an industry that wants to get its television productions and future movie schedules back in order.
 Wednesday morning will bring a rush to the office by television writers who are especially eager to get existing series like the CBS comedy ''Two and a Half Men'' and the ABC drama ''Grey's Anatomy'' quickly up to speed. 
 The strike upended the television viewing habits of millions of Americans by shutting down production on most dramas and comedies and forced movie studios to halt some big-budget films. It also dried up the livelihoods of not just the 12,000 guild members but tens of thousands of people who rely on such productions for work. 
 How much economic damage was wrought by the walkout has been subject to debate. 
 Writers predicted that the strike would cause $2.5 billion in economic losses if it continued to the five-month mark, as did their 1988 strike. But a report from the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles, estimated losses for a strike of that length at only about $380 million, because companies had already spent heavily to stockpile programs and other factors.
 As of Tuesday afternoon, a running tally by the producers' alliance estimated that the walkout had cost writers about $285 million in lost wages and had cost workers in other film unions nearly $500 million. 
 The strike's end appeared to make a walkout by Hollywood's actors less likely when their contract expires June 30. The actors' unions have not yet opened negotiations; but the road map for digital media compensation laid out in recent agreements with both writers and directors raised the prospect that similar solutions could work with actors.
 The writers' dispute was settled when company executives -- notably Peter Chernin, the News Corporation president, and Robert A. Iger, the Walt Disney chief executive -- opened talks with Mr. Verrone, along with David J. Young, executive director of the West Coast guild, and John Bowman, who headed the unions' negotiating committee. A crucial break came when the two sides created a provision that provides the guilds a gain in the payment for digital distribution of entertainment beyond the terms of a recent deal between Hollywood producers and the Directors Guild of America. 
 Leslie Moonves, chief executive of CBS, said Hollywood executives might do well to spend more time with guild leaders in coming months, if peace is to prevail in the long term. ''The lesson is, we shouldn't meet every three years,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (88%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (60%); MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA WEST (58%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (60%); NWS (ASX) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%)

PERSON: PETER CHERNIN (54%); ROBERT A IGER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



332 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: There Will Be Scandal: An Oil Stain on the Jazz Age

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
THE TEAPOT DOME SCANDAL 
 How Big Oil Bought the Harding White House and Tried to Steal the Country 
 By Laton McCartney 
 Illustrated. Random House. 351 pages. $27. 
 Scandals in Washington come and go, but Teapot Dome remains one of the real humdingers. In a scheme of breathtaking audacity a handful of oil tycoons and corrupt government officials nearly managed to make away with a hefty percentage of the nation's petroleum reserves. It was, in the words of Thomas J. Walsh, the senator whose committee hearings blew the lid off the teapot, ''the most stupendous piece of thievery known to our annals, or perhaps to those of any other country.''
 This is a story that has it all -- a Jazz Age background, a pleasure-loving president surrounded by booze and chorus girls, boomtown capitalists from the Wild West, conniving politicians, mysterious suicides and a glamorous star witness named Roxy. Laton McCartney, in ''The Teapot Dome Scandal,'' duly notes all of the above, but in his pedestrian retelling of the affair somehow manages to turn pulp drama into a bureaucratic dossier. 
 Granted, he faces an uphill climb. Teapot Dome is shorthand for a complex scheme involving multiple players moving a lot of shells at lightning speed. In brief, a coterie of oil barons, led by Harry F. Sinclair and Edward L. Doheny, bribed Albert B. Fall, the secretary of the interior under Warren G. Harding, to lease them Teapot Dome in Wyoming and two oil fields in California, all controlled by the Navy. Since Harding and Fall had, in effect, been installed by these same oilmen, the deal went smoothly.
 Senate investigators took years to figure it out. Mr. McCartney, who has written books on the Bechtel Corporation and the Oregon Trail, does his best to marshal the facts, sort out the intricacies of the plot and keep his extensive cast of characters in formation, but in the end it all proves too much for him.
 Signs of struggle appear about halfway through. Chapter-ending cliffhangers languish, never to be revisited until so late in the book that their impact has been nullified. Desperate cues to the reader begin to appear, as names proliferate, and characters previously introduced but long absent from the stage suddenly reappear. 
 ''A brief refresher on Hays,'' Mr. McCartney writes, flagging the return of Will Hays, the venal chairman of the Republican National Committee and later Harding's postmaster general. ''Let's take a moment for introductions here,'' he writes, as a new clump of miscreants moves front and center. Mr. McCartney is like a man herding cats. 
 He has nothing new to say about the scandal, but he does have a certain zest for Teapot's sordid comedy and a rich appreciation of the characters involved. Intermittently, when not tangled up in the minutiae of the evolving scandal, he delivers fresh, arresting portraits of the main players, some of them lovable rogues, others beady-eyed scoundrels.
 Harding, a back-slapping bon vivant who preferred a good game of poker and a curvaceous blonde to the dull routine of the Oval Office, beams like the sun. Doheny, a rapacious brute, seduces press and public with a carefully cultivated persona that Mr. McCartney describes as a ''kindly old Irish uncle with a twinkle in his eye and a good-luck gold piece hanging from his vest chain.''
 Hays skulks and slithers. A wizened sourpuss, up to his elbows in dirty deals, he flies out to Hollywood like one of the winged monkeys from ''The Wizard of Oz'' after serving as postmaster general. There, as the studios' chief enforcer of morals, he created the Hays Code to censor risque material in the movies. 
 ''Life had been good to Will Hays, though he still looked like a weasel,'' Mr. McCartney writes.
 Virtually everyone involved in Teapot Dome was crooked, even the press. The owners of The Denver Post, after being tipped off by a disgruntled office worker that the interior secretary was giving away oil leases to his friends like ''kisses at a wedding,'' sent their star reporter to delve into Sinclair and Teapot Dome. They then used the information for blackmail, extorting a cool million from their subject. 
 Like most conspiracies, Teapot Dome unraveled because there were too many people involved and too many details to cover up. (Sinclair really should have known better than to spread the wealth around in traceable Liberty bonds.) The public learned all about it through Senate hearings that, in the words of one journalist, ''had all the atmosphere of a murder trial, combined with the bated breath excitement of the opening of King Tut's tomb.'' 
 Walsh, the relentless, incorruptible senator from Montana, eventually prevailed, no thanks to the government, which obstructed his every effort. In one of the great spectacles of the 20th century, the American people got to take a close look at how their public servants operated. And, it has to be said, they did not particularly care. Calvin Coolidge, ensconced as president after his fellow Republican Harding's sudden and timely death, won the 1924 election handily. The economy was recovering nicely, nearly anyone could buy a Ford, and happy music was in the air. 
 This, perhaps, is the great lesson of Teapot Dome. No one suffered too much. Secretary Fall, whom Mr. McCartney erroneously credits as the inspiration for the term ''fall guy,'' became the first cabinet member to be convicted of a felony and died in disgrace. But the rest of the big fish made out fine. When you commit a crime, be sure to sign up the government as a partner. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF VANUGA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SCANDALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BRIBERY (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); WITNESSES (75%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); POLITICS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); SUICIDE (68%)

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Teapot Dome Scandal, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008



333 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Snow Is Great. But That Road Plan to Get to It?

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
The deepest snows in nearly 30 years have fallen this winter in some corners of the West, reinvigorating a thorny, prolonged debate for many of the 2.4 million people in the Denver metropolitan region -- how to get to where the snow is.
 Interstate 70, the east-west corridor to the high-country ski resorts, bottlenecks to four lanes from six in places and is often bumper to bumper on weekends. 
 The highway had its biggest annual increase in vehicle use in 18 years last year, according to state figures, up 6.2 percent, as recreation, international tourism and second-home ownership in the mountains all boomed. 
 Several solutions to the congestion have been proposed, including adding lanes to I-70 or building a rail line. But Colorado does not have the $5 billion to $10 billion that even the most penny-pinching options would require.
 But when State Senator Chris Romer, Democrat of Denver, offered a relatively inexpensive solution last month, his reward was a rap on the head with a ski pole. 
 Mr. Romer's suggestion -- congestion pricing using financial incentives to encourage people to drive or not drive at peak times on I-70 -- drew 500 e-mail messages in the first 24 hours after it was reported in The Rocky Mountain News. About 70 percent opposed the plan, he said, and many of those called him exuberantly bad names. 
 The ski pole incident, partly in jest, he said, occurred as he was leaving a chairlift at the Winter Park resort, about 90 minutes from Denver (sometimes three hours on a car-choked Sunday afternoon) after he had admitted to the women he was riding with that he was in fact ''that guy with the highway plan.''
 In an interview, Mr. Romer acknowledged that his congestion pricing plan ''might end up doing a belly flop.'' 
 ''But we're not going to solve this problem by being cautious, which is what government does best,'' he said, explaining that reliance on gasoline taxes and highway construction will not work. More fuel-efficient cars mean less revenue from fuel taxes, which have been the engine of the old pave-as-you-go model. 
 ''We have to get creative,'' Mr. Romer said. ''And if we fail, we adjust and we try again.''
 Congestion pricing is already used in some urban areas -- London and Stockholm, for example. And Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has offered a plan for New York City. 
 He said he hoped to start a pilot project on I-70 as early as the next ski season. The first phase would involve payments, perhaps in cash or discount lift tickets and other incentives from resorts to drivers who choose off-peak travel. 
 If the pilot is successful, he said, that will be time to consider the plan's more controversial aspect, imposing fees on drivers who make the trip when the road is most crowded.
 Mr. Romer said he did not consider the fees taxes or tolls, but a closed loop of drivers' paying other drivers, a market-driven solution in which the prices of traveling at differing times are sorted out and traded like other commodities. 
 Those who drive at peak times pay more, perhaps with the aid of an electronic collection system at resort entrances, with the money going to those who waited until a less convenient, and less congested, time.
 Mr. Romer, whose father is Roy Romer, a Democrat and the governor of Colorado from 1987 to 1999, said any final plan should be put to a statewide vote and would also need federal approval. The path, he conceded, will be long and steep.
 A spokeswoman for the resort trade group, Colorado Ski Country USA, sounded underwhelmed when asked about Mr. Romer's idea.
 ''This is just the beginning of the dialog,'' the spokeswoman, Jennifer Rudolph, said. ''We're not convinced yet.''
 But whether Mr. Romer's plan advances or not, there is little doubt that the landscape of the high country served by I-70 is evolving into a more complicated place with shifts in economics, climate and population. 
 As the economies of places like Vail and Winter Park become more dependent on real estate sales and second-home residents and less reliant on day skiers, it is easier to find people who are not as affected or concerned about the traffic on I-70. 
 To someone who can drive to a condominium on Friday night, the prospect of all those day-skiers from Denver stuck in their cars on Saturday morning, or giving up and going home, might start to sound good, because it would mean fewer people on the lifts.
 Snow itself, once a given, has become a point of free-floating anxiety, with climate models suggesting much warmer winters in the years to come. 
 Thanks to this year's bountiful snowfall, though, the Colorado River, which begins its journey to the Sea of Cortez from the state's mountains, sustaining more than 20 million people along the way from Nevada to California, is currently projected to surge this spring at 120 percent of its long-term average.
 That is a rarity in the last decade, and a welcome one. Only in one year since 1999 has the river even approached average levels, and in the worst year of the drought, 2002, was at 25 percent of average.
 ''It feels like the 1970s,'' said Tom Perkins, a hydrologist with the Natural Resources Conservation Service, a federal research group, referring to a time that weather-heads look back on as a golden age, when wet, cold, deep and white were commonly used adjectives.
 Still, Don Ostler, executive director of the Upper Colorado River Association, a federally chartered group that monitors the river, said, ''Those of us who have been in this business for a while are very afraid of counting our chickens before they're hatched.'' 
 A dry warm spring -- no snow and rapid melt, as has occurred several times in the last few years -- and, poof, the snow is all gone, Mr. Ostler said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Blowing snow between Idaho Springs and Avon, Colo., on Friday halted traffic on I-70, which was closed in both directions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MALONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Record Snowfall: Much of the Rocky Mountains and Pacific Northwest have had record snow this year, offering relief to states like Colorado, which has had a long-running drought. But the snow is also adding traffic congestion along I-70 around Denver, a key route to many ski resorts.(Source: National Water and Climate Center, U.S. Department of Agriculture) Map details areas mostly hit by snow fall in Colorado. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (77%); RESORTS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (74%); TAX LAW (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (69%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FUEL TAX (65%); GASOLINE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%)

PERSON: CHRISTINA ROMER (76%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



334 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: I Love You, But You Love Meat

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
SOME relationships run aground on the perilous shoals of money, sex or religion. When Shauna James's new romance hit the rocks, the culprit was wheat.
 ''I went out with one guy who said I seemed really great but he liked bread too much to date me,'' said Ms. James, 41, a writer in Seattle who cannot eat gluten, a protein found in wheat, barley and rye.
 Sharing meals has always been an important courtship ritual and a metaphor for love. But in an age when many people define themselves by what they will eat and what they won't, dietary differences can put a strain on a romantic relationship. The culinary camps have become so balkanized that some factions consider interdietary dating taboo.
 No-holds-barred carnivores, for example, may share the view of Anthony Bourdain, who wrote in his book ''Kitchen Confidential'' that ''vegetarians, and their Hezbollah-like splinter faction, the vegans ... are the enemy of everything good and decent in the human spirit.'' 
 Returning the compliment, many vegetarians say they cannot date anyone who eats meat. Vegans, who avoid eating not just animals but animal-derived products, take it further, shivering at the thought of kissing someone who has even sipped honey-sweetened tea. 
 Ben Abdalla, 42, a real estate agent in Boca Raton, Fla., said he preferred to date fellow vegetarians because meat eaters smell bad and have low energy. 
 Lisa Romano, 31, a vegan and school psychologist in Belleville, N.Y., said she recently ended a relationship with a man who enjoyed backyard grilling. He had no problem searing her vegan burgers alongside his beef patties, but she found the practice unenlightened and disturbing. 
 Her disapproval ''would have become an issue later even if it wasn't in the beginning,'' Ms. Romano said. ''I need someone who is ethically on the same page.''
 While some eaters may elevate morality above hedonism, others are suspicious of anyone who does not give in to the pleasure principle. 
 June Deadrick, 40, a lobbyist in Houston, said she would have a hard time loving a man who did not share her fondness for multicourse meals including wild game and artisanal cheeses. ''And I'm talking cheese from a cow, not that awful soy stuff,'' she said.
 Judging from postings at food Web sites like chowhound.com and slashfood.com, people seem more willing to date those who restrict their diet for health or religion rather than mere dislike. 
 Typical sentiments included: ''Medical and religious issues I can work around as long as the person is sincere and consistent, but flaky, picky cheaters -- no way'' and ''picky eaters are remarkably unsexy.''
 Jennifer Esposito, 28, an image consultant who lives in Rye Brook, N.Y., lived for four years with a man who ate only pizza, noodles with butter and the occasional baked potato. 
 ''It was really frustrating because he refused to try anything I made,'' she said. They broke up. ''Food is a huge part of life,'' she said. ''It's something I want to be able to share.''
 A year ago Ms. Esposito met and married Michael Esposito, 51, who, like her, is an adventurous and omnivorous eater. Now, she said, she could not be happier. ''A relationship is about giving and receiving, and he loves what I cook, and I love to cook for him,'' she said.
 Food has a strong subconscious link to love, said Kathryn Zerbe, a psychiatrist who specializes in eating disorders at Oregon Health and Science University in Portland. That is why refusing a partner's food ''can feel like rejection,'' she said. 
 As with other differences couples face, tolerance and compromise are essential at the dinner table, marital therapists said. ''If you can't allow your partner to have latitude in what he or she eats, then maybe your problem isn't about food,'' said Susan Jaffe, a psychiatrist in Manhattan. 
 Dynise Balcavage, 42, an associate creative director at an advertising agency and vegan who lives in Philadelphia, said she has been happily married to her omnivorous husband, John Gatti, 53, for seven years. 
 ''We have this little dance we've choreographed in the kitchen,'' she said. She prepares vegan meals and averts her eyes when he adds anchovies or cheese. And she does not show disapproval when he orders meat in a restaurant.
 ''I'm not a vegangelical,'' she said. ''He's an adult and I respect his choices just as he respects mine.''
 In deference to his wife, Mr. Gatti has cut back substantially on his meat consumption and no longer eats veal. For her part, Ms. Balcavage cooks more Italian dishes, her husband's favorite.
 In New York City, Yoshie Fruchter and his girlfriend, Leah Koenig, still wrestle with their dietary differences after almost two years together. He is kosher and she is vegetarian. They eat vegetarian meals at her apartment, where he keeps his own set of dishes and utensils. When eating out they mostly go to kosher restaurants, although they ''aren't known for inspired cuisine,'' said Ms. Koenig, 25, who works for a nonprofit environmental group.
 Though the couple occasionally visit nonkosher restaurants, Mr. Fruchter, 26, a musician, said he has to order carefully to avoid violating kosher rules. ''We're still figuring out how this is going to work,'' he said. ''We're both making sacrifices, which is what you do when you're in love.''
 Even couples who have been eating together happily for years can be thrown into disarray when one partner suddenly takes up a new diet. After 19 years of marriage, Steve Benson unsettled his wife, Jean, when he announced three years ago that he would no longer eat meat, for ethical reasons. 
 ''It had been in my head a long time, but I could have done a better job of talking about it,'' said Mr. Benson, 46, a math professor at Lesley University, in Cambridge, Mass. Ms. Benson, who is also 46, and devises grade school curriculums, said she worried her husband would judge her if she continued to eat meat, ''but we talked it out and he is not proselytizing.'' 
 Another concern was whether she would be able to cook vegetarian meals that would meet the nutritional needs of everyone in the family, including their teenage daughter. ''I wanted us all to eat the same thing for pragmatic, household economy reasons, but also because that's part of being a family,'' Ms. Benson said. 
 So, she cooks vegetarian dinners and makes lunches for herself and her daughter that include meat. She and her daughter have ''meat parties'' when Mr. Benson goes out of town, she said. 
 ''There's this feeling that if we eat the same thing then we are the same thing, and if we don't, we're no longer unified,'' Dr. Zerbe said. She and Dr. Jaffe said sharing food is an important ritual that enhances relationships. They advise interdietary couples to find meals they can both enjoy. ''Or at least a side dish,'' Dr. Zerbe said. 
 For people who like to cook, learning to bridge the dietary divide can be an enjoyable puzzle. Ms. James, the gluten-averse writer, eventually found a man who did not love by bread alone. On her first date with Daniel Ahern, in 2006, she told him that she was gluten-free; he saw it as a professional challenge. 
 ''As a chef, it has given me the opportunity to experiment with new ingredients to create things she can eat,'' said Mr. Ahern, 39, who works at Impromptu Wine Bar Cafe in Seattle. Ms. James said she fell in love with him after he made her a gluten-free salad of frisee, poached egg and bacon. They married in September.
 Since then, Mr. Ahern has given up eating bread at home, though he still eats it when he goes out. For her part, Ms. James has begun eating offal and foie gras, which were once anathema. ''We've changed each other,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MORE THAN DINNER?: Shauna James doesn't eat gluten. Daniel Ahern adapted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F1)
ACCOMMODATIONS: When Dynise Balcavage, a vegan, and her husband, John Gatti, prepare orecchiette with broccoli, he adds anchovies to his serving. At Impromptu Wine Bar Cafe in Seattle, Daniel Ahern makes gluten-free dishes like polenta fries, above left, and lamb chops with lentils. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE LEGATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STUART ISETT) (pg.F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEAT FREE DIETS (92%); CHEESE (89%); NUTRITION (89%); RELIGION (89%); ETHICS (73%); MAMMALS (73%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (71%); WRITERS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); HEZBOLLAH (53%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



335 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: The War on Drugs Starts Here

 BODY:
If we have learned one thing in the protracted war on drugs, it is that reining in illicit drug trafficking will require more than fighting cartels south of the border. Nothing can be achieved unless this country curbs its own demand for illegal narcotics. 
 The Bush administration, which offers regular lectures on the superior logic of the free market, clearly doesn't get this equation of supply and demand. Last October, Washington announced a new $1.4 billion assistance package for Mexico and Central America to combat the drug trade. Then the White House unveiled its 2009 budget, which calls for a 1.5 percent cut in spending on domestic drug prevention and treatment programs. 
 The statistics on drug abuse for this country are at best mixed. The share of teenagers who said they had tried illicit drugs within a year has fallen sharply since 2000, according to surveys by researchers at the University of Michigan. The percentage of students in 8th, 10th or 12th grades who tried methamphetamine declined by more than half over the same period, while cocaine abuse declined by almost a quarter among 8th graders and 10th graders.
 Still, teenage abuse of other narcotics, like prescription drugs, is growing. So is drug abuse among adults. The latest National Drug Threat Assessment reports that many more Americans over 18 are trying everything from heroin to marijuana to methamphetamine. 
 Yet the White House's budget proposal for 2009 cuts the funding for the prevention and treatment of drug abuse to $4.9 billion. The budget for prevention programs -- like the drug-free schools grants -- was cut by 14.2 percent to just above $1.5 billion. After accounting for inflation, spending on prevention has fallen every year since 2002. 
 Mexico and Central America certainly need help to better fight the drug gangs moving narcotics into the United States. But it is clearly not enough. Washington has funded coca eradication efforts in the Andes for years. It has given the Colombian government more than $5 billion since 2000. Thousands of police have died in Latin America fighting the traffickers. Yet all the blood, tears and cash have had virtually no impact on the amount of drugs in the United States.
 The federal government needs to do more to slow the flow of money and guns that finance and arm the cartels in Mexico and Central America. There is little hope of ever defeating the traffickers abroad if the government isn't doing enough to reduce demand at home. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL DRUGS (93%); DRUG POLICY (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); METHAMPHETAMINE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (89%); CARTELS (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (78%); COCAINE (78%); CANNABIS (78%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); HEROIN (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); GANGS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



336 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Americans Spend More On Treating Their Backs

BYLINE: By TARA PARKER-POPE

 BODY:
Americans are spending more money than ever to treat spine problems, but their backs are not getting any better.
 Those are the findings of a report in The Journal of the American Medical Association, which found that spending on spine treatments in the United States totaled nearly $86 billion in 2005, a rise of 65 percent from 1997, after adjusting for inflation. Even so, the proportion of people with impaired function because of spine problems increased during the period, even after controlling for an aging population. 
 ''You'd think if you're putting a lot of money into a problem, you'd see some improvements in health status,'' said Brook I. Martin, research scientist at the Department of Orthopedics and Sports Medicine at the University of Washington and lead author on the study, published Wednesday. ''We're putting a lot of money into this problem, and it's a big investment in health care expenditures, but we're not seeing health status commensurate with those investments.'' 
 The report is the latest to suggest that the nation is losing its battle against back pain, and that many popular treatments may be ineffective or overused. Researchers have produced conflicting data about the effectiveness of spinal surgery for back pain, although one major clinical trial, known by the acronym Sport, showed that spinal surgery patients did better than patients receiving more conservative care, which included medications or physical therapy. However, some doctors have questioned whether surgeries, injections and narcotic pain medications are being used appropriately.
 ''I think the truth is we have perhaps oversold what we have to offer,'' said Dr. Richard A. Deyo, a physician at the Oregon Health and Science University in Portland and a co-author of the report. ''All the imaging we do, all the drug treatments, all the injections, all the operations have some benefit for some patients. But I think in each of those situations we've begun using those tests or treatments more widely than science would really support.''
 To study spending trends on spinal care, the researchers examined annual household survey data from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, which was collected from about 23,000 people a year from 1997 to 2005. It includes pharmacy and medical record data, and was used to estimate national spending and treatment practices.
 The researchers found that people with spine problems spent about $6,096 each on medical care in 2005, compared with $3,516 in medical spending by those without spine problems.
 The biggest surge in spending has been for drugs. In 2005, Americans spent an estimated $20 billion on drug treatments for back and neck problems, an increase of 171 percent from 1997. The biggest jump was for narcotic pain relievers, like OxyContin and other drugs, which increased more than 400 percent.
 Outpatient treatment for back and neck problems increased 74 percent to about $31 billion during the period, while spending related to emergency room visits grew by 46 percent to $2.6 billion. Spending for surgical procedures and other inpatient costs grew by 25 percent to about $24 billion.
 Despite the growth in treatment of back problems, the data show that the percentage of people with serious spine problems has not declined; it appears to have increased.
 Based on the sample, the researchers estimated that in 1997, about 21 percent of the adult population suffered from back or neck problems that limited their function. By 2005, that number grew to about 26 percent, after adjusting the numbers for an aging population.
 It is not clear why more people appear to be suffering from back and neck pain. It could be because of rising obesity rates, researchers suggested. Or excessive treatment of back problems could lead to more problems.
 ''I do worry there is a combination of side effects and unnecessary treatments and labeling people as being fragile when they're really not,'' Dr. Deyo said. ''The combination of those kinds of things may actually be in some cases doing more harm than good.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (87%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (77%); STATISTICS (76%); SPORTS INJURIES (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); WRITERS (73%); SPORTS MEDICINE (72%); MEDICAL RECORDS (72%); AGING TRENDS (71%); ANALGESICS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); AGING (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



337 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Helicopter School Closes, Leaving Students in Lurch

BYLINE: By STEVE FRIESS

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
A helicopter flight training school run by a prominent Republican fund-raiser in Nevada has declared bankruptcy, leaving students in 18 states responsible for hundreds of thousands of dollars in uninsured student loans.
 Now lawyers for several students say they plan to file lawsuits accusing the executive, Jerry Airola, of operating the flight school, Silver State Helicopters, which is based here, as a pyramid scheme that led to the company's closing on Feb. 4. 
 The closing also forced the layoffs of 750 employees at 33 locations, and the bankruptcy declaration halted a binding-arbitration proceeding meant to settle the complaints of 40 students who filed an earlier lawsuit accusing the company of fraudulent business practices. Those students, along with dozens of others across the nation, are working with lawyers in an effort to pursue refunds of at least some of the tuition of about $70,000 that Silver State charged each student. 
 Despite having enrolled thousands of students since its founding in 1999, the company had less than $50,000 in assets against $10 million in debt, according to its bankruptcy filing.
 A spokesman for Eos Partners, the New York venture capital company that paid $30 million last August to secure a 60 percent interest in Silver State, attributed the closing to dwindling enrollment. ''There weren't enough students coming in with the funds to sustain the business,'' the spokesman, Michael Freitag, said.
 Mr. Freitag said a sharp downturn in the student-loan market last fall curtailed the school's ability to secure financing for new students and caused the decline in enrollment. 
 The attorneys general in Oregon and California are looking into the company's activities.
 ''We have an interest in protecting students in these schools,'' said Gareth Lacy, a spokesman for the California attorney general. ''With the school going bankrupt, we're not sure there is anything left.''
 A hearing to examine Silver State's holdings in Federal Bankruptcy Court here, set for Monday, was canceled.
 Troy Swezey, 40, a parking valet on the Strip, is one of many students who financed his tuition by taking out private loans arranged by Silver State. The program was especially attractive, Mr. Swezey said, because the loans would not start coming due for two years, theoretically giving students time to get through the 18-month program and land a job. Most flight-school programs are pay as you go; Silver State collected all the money up front.
 Mr. Swezey and other students complained that the school never had enough operable aircraft or available flight instructors to allow them to complete the program within 18 months. Mr. Swezey said he enrolled in May 2006 and was far from securing his commercial pilot's license.
 ''If you hire a painter to paint your house and you give him all the money, why should he quit painting your house in the middle just because he can't get any other houses to paint?'' asked Mr. Swezey, whose first loan payment is due in May. He has calculated that the 10.5 percent interest on his 20-year loan means he owes nearly $200,000.
 Mr. Airola, who continued as chief executive officer and minority owner of the company after the Eos investment, did not return calls for comment. Days before the bankruptcy declaration, he was a host at a Nevada Republican Party fund-raiser here attended by President Bush. 
 Lawyers for the students said that what Mr. Freitag described was a classic pyramid scheme in which the company was constantly on the hunt for new capital to pay its prior commitments. They note that in 2006, Inc. magazine named it the 12th-fastest-growing private company in the United States. 
 ''The students were afraid to speak out along the way because they didn't want to be thrown out of the program, and they were afraid they'd lose all their money,'' said Peter C. Lown, a lawyer in Jonesboro, Ga., who is representing some of the Arizona students.
 Jody Pidruzny, who was a financial aid officer and an enrollment officer at the school's headquarters here, said her fiance completed the program in Washington State in 10 months.
 ''I was involved when it was a very, very small operation, and I know without a shadow of a doubt it was never intended to be a pyramid scheme,'' Ms. Pidruzny said. ''Our goal was to grow a commercial operation and use the flight schools to employ our graduates in commercial operations. It never got off the ground.''
 Mr. Airola is not new to controversy in Las Vegas. In 2006, he spent $4 million of his own money to run for Clark County sheriff, but he lost in a landslide when it was revealed that his claims of having been a police officer in California were false.
 Nonetheless, Mr. Airola remained a figure in the state's Republican establishment, serving on the transition team of Gov. Jim Gibbons in late 2006. Last month, the governor appointed Mr. Airola to the Nevada Economic Development Advisory Board. A spokeswoman for the Mr. Gibbons said the governor was not rethinking that.
 ''The governor has no plans to ask Mr. Airola to step down, nor does he plan to return any contributions,'' the spokeswoman, Melissa Subbotin, said Tuesday. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Swezey, who said he cast about for a career for eight years after serving in the Army as a Black Hawk helicopter engineer, is despondent.
 ''The one thing I missed most about the military was being in the air,'' he said. ''I really wanted this career. I don't know what I'll do now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jerry Airola, above in 2003, the chief operating officer of Silver State Helicopters, is also a Republican fund-raiser in Nevada. The school has declared bankruptcy, closing Feb. 4. Troy Swezey, right, is one of many students who financed his tuition by taking out private loans arranged by Silver State. He estimates he owes $200,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLIGHT SCHOOLS (92%); HELICOPTERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (71%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (70%)

COMPANY: SILVER STATE HELICOPTERS LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611512 FLIGHT TRAINING (58%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



338 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ARTICLES ON THESE DEVELOPMENTS ARE AT NYTIMES.COM/BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: On The Web

BYLINE: By AP

 BODY:
LEVI STRAUSS & COMPANY, shaking off a sales slowdown in the United States late last year, reported that its profit rose for the ninth consecutive quarter. (AP)
 THE MARSH & MCLENNAN Companies said its profit fell 62 percent in the fourth quarter as competition reduced the commissions the insurance broker charged. (AP) 
 THE MOLSON COORS Brewing Company reported a 75 percent increase in its fourth-quarter profit, crediting a tax benefit and the weaker dollar. (AP)
 COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES, the world's largest bottler of Coca-Cola Company drinks, posted higher-than-expected quarterly earnings, helped by higher prices in North America and Europe. (REUTERS)
 THE OMNICOM GROUP, the advertising services company, reported a 13 percent rise in quarterly profit, but also issued cautious comments about the economy. (REUTERS) 
 TECHNOLOGY
 THE GAME? IT HAS A NICE FINISH If there remain any doubters that video games have hit the mainstream, witness wine hour at the Hotel Monaco in downtown Seattle. MATT RICHTEL
 nytimes.com/bits
 SLOWER GROWTH FOR TECHForrester Research lowered its 2008 estimates for growth in spending on technology goods and services to 2.6 percent, from 4.6 percent, in the United States. STEVE LOHR
 nytimes.com/bits
 MEDIA
 SAVE MY SHOW The Internet campaigns waged by ardent television fans don't usually succeed in bringing shows back from the brink of cancellation. But the exception -- ''Jericho'' on CBS -- is giving fans of other shows some hope. BRIAN STELTER nytimes.com/tvdecoder
 WRITERS' REACTION Late Tuesday, writers guild members voted on whether to halt the three-month-old strike. TV Decoder gauges reaction and talks to writers all day Wednesday. BRIAN STELTER
 nytimes.com/tvdecoder
 SMALL BUSINESS
 FEELING SICK? STAY HOME Those martyrs who troop into the office when they are ailing are not doing themselves -- or anyone else -- a favor. MARCI ALBOHER
 nytimes.com/shiftingcareers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BREWERIES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (72%); US DOLLAR (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); COMPUTER GAMES (68%)

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (93%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (83%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (72%); COCA-COLA CO (71%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (57%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (57%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (92%); MHM (LSE) (92%); OMC (NYSE) (83%); TAP (NYSE) (72%); KO (NYSE) (71%); CCE (PAR) (57%); CCE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (93%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (72%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (72%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (72%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (72%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



339 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING AMERICAS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela: Tension Over Oil Is Growing

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The state-run oil company said it had stopped selling crude to Exxon Mobil and had suspended commercial relations with it. The state-run Petroleos de Venezuela said it ''has paralyzed sales of crude to Exxon Mobil.'' It said the decision was made ''as an act of reciprocity'' for the company's ''judicial-economic harassment.'' President Hugo Chavez has shaken oil markets with threats to cut off oil supplies to America. His threats came in response to a drive by Exxon Mobil to seize Venezuelan assets through the courts in a dispute over the nationalization of its ventures in Venezuela. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); NATIONALIZATION (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (83%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (90%); PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (90%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



340 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: A Chicago Hotel's New Life in a Rising Area

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
The restoration of the Blackstone, a fabled but long vacant hotel on South Michigan Avenue here, is evidence of a reviving lodging market in one of the country's largest convention cities. It also reflects the newfound vitality of the South Loop neighborhood in the wake of the development of nearby Millennium Park in the early 2000s. 
 The 332-room Blackstone, which has been closed since the late 1990s, will reopen in early March after a $128 million renovation by Sage Hospitality Resources, a privately held hotel and restaurant company based in Denver. The project's architect is Lucien Lagrange, one of Chicago's leading hotel designers. 
 ''It's the largest single development project we have completed,'' said Walter L. Isenberg, Sage's chief executive. ''It's clearly a flagship for us.'' 
 Sage, which owns or manages 47 hotels in 21 states and has annual revenue of about $500 million, specializes in historic renovation and adaptation projects. Last year, it opened the 272-room Renaissance Providence, which was carved out of a long-vacant Masonic Temple in downtown Providence, R.I. Later this year, it will open the Nines, a 331-room hotel in the old Meier & Frank department store building in downtown Portland, Ore. 
 ''What we have found is that customers are looking for unique experiences,'' Mr. Isenberg said. ''The historic element provides that. And from a community perspective, people today value historic preservation. They're interested in saving things that tie the past and the present together.'' 
 The Blackstone will be owned and managed by Sage but will carry the Marriott Renaissance nameplate under a franchise agreement. 
 Rita Cuddihy, senior vice president of Renaissance North America, said the Blackstone was a good fit for the brand. ''We use the Renaissance brand for hotels that are very unique in terms of location, style, design or historic values,'' she said. There are currently 140 Renaissance hotels around the world, including five others in the Chicago area. 
 For much of its history, the Blackstone, which opened in 1910, was a premier destination. ''It was Chicago's first modern hotel,'' said Tim Samuelson, the city's cultural historian. 
 Designed in lavish Beaux-Arts style by the architect Benjamin Marshall, who also created the Drake Hotel on North Michigan Avenue, the Blackstone played host over the years to many presidents and celebrities. 
 It also has a prominent place in political history. During the deadlocked Republican Convention of 1920, cigar-smoking party leaders huddled in a ninth-floor suite to hammer out the nomination of Warren G. Harding. The Associated Press later reported that Harding had been nominated in ''a smoke-filled room,'' a phrase that entered the political lexicon. 
 That suite and one other -- the original presidential suite on the 10th floor -- are the only guest rooms that were preserved during the recent renovation. 
 The hotel went through rough times in the '60s and '70s, when the surrounding neighborhood declined. Then, in the early 1990s, it was acquired by a charitable group associated with the late Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, with the goal of turning it into a meditation center. That plan -- as well as an effort to convert it to a luxury condominium -- never came to fruition.
 In the meantime, many original details were lost. ''They sold anything that had great value -- the brass fittings, several of the statues, the original chandeliers,'' said Fletcher Mayes, Sage's general manager for the hotel. During the current renovation, Sage has been able to repurchase several of these elements on eBay and has refabricated others. 
 The Blackstone should benefit from the revival of its neighborhood. Michigan Avenue encompasses two distinct areas -- north and south -- with the Chicago River as the dividing line. The Loop is one block west of South Michigan Avenue.
 Even though it includes such attractions as the Art Institute of Chicago and Symphony Center, South Michigan Avenue has traditionally been something of a dead zone in terms of retailing and tourism.
 Four years ago, however, the city completed Millennium Park, a 24.6-acre lakefront playground several blocks south of the river, and it has jolted the formerly somnolent street back to life. ''There's a whole new energy in the Loop and along Michigan Avenue that wasn't there 10 years ago,'' said Arnold L. Randall, the city's planning commissioner. 
 The owners of the Blackstone sought to take advantage of this change. ''We saw an opportunity on South Michigan Avenue with all the gentrification going on,'' Mr. Isenberg said. ''We really think the Blackstone can be the crown jewel south of the river.''
 The reopening coincides with a boom in hotel development downtown. About 30 projects with a total of some 7,300 rooms have been announced or are under way. If all are completed, the total number of hotel rooms in downtown Chicago will increase by over 25 percent. 
 Many analysts, however, say this is unlikely to occur. ''Maybe half of the announced projects will actually get done,'' predicted Adam McGaughy, senior vice president of the Chicago office of the hospitality division of Jones Lang LaSalle, a real estate services and money management firm in Chicago.
 ''When they were announced, the economy was going gangbusters and hotels were considered very sexy investments,'' Mr. McGaughy said. ''But a lot has changed in the last few months. There's just a lot less equity out there chasing these deals today.'' 
 The downtown boom is being driven by several factors, most notably the completion of an additional convention hall at nearby McCormick Place. This has resulted in an uptick in convention business as well as increases in leisure tourism.
 The overall downtown hotel occupancy rate for 2007 was 77 percent, compared with a nationwide occupancy rate of about 63 percent. ''It's a very healthy market,'' Mr. McGaughy said.
 The demand is not only from business travelers. ''What's interesting about the Chicago hotel market is that weekend occupancy has been strengthening and is now often higher than midweek occupancy,'' said Tim Roby, president of the Chicago Convention and Tourism Bureau. ''There's not many commercial destinations outside of New York, San Francisco and Miami where you can say that, and it tells you that the city is getting that much more leisure business.''
 The Blackstone will be the second new hotel to open downtown since the beginning of the year. The first, which began operations in late January, is the 339-room Trump International Hotel.
 Trump International occupies the lower floors of a 92-story condominium building that is still under construction just off Michigan Avenue on the north bank of the Chicago River. The building, which will be the second tallest in the city after the Sears Tower, will not be completed until 2009. 
 ''We look at Chicago as being one of the strongest markets in the country right now,'' said Jim Petrus, chief operating officer of the Trump Hotel Collection. ''There's a strong corporate and convention base. It's also a great livable residential city. Those three elements make for a great hotel market.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Walter L. Isenberg, Sage Hospitality's chief executive, left, and Fletcher Mayes, the Blackstone's general manager, in the restored ballroom. Right, a west-facing view of the hotel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM ZBAREN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); LODGING (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HISTORY (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); POLITICS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); SMOKING (60%)

COMPANY: SAGE HOSPITALITY RESOURCES LLP (90%); MACY'S INC (55%); DRAKE HOTEL (51%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (90%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



341 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Spielberg Drops Out as Adviser to Beijing Olympics in Dispute Over Darfur Conflict

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; David M. Halbfinger contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Steven Spielberg said Tuesday that he was withdrawing as an artistic adviser to the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, after almost a year of trying unsuccessfully to prod President Hu Jintao of China to do more to try to end Sudan's attacks in the Darfur region.
 Mr. Spielberg's decision, and the public way he announced it, is a blow to China, which has said that its relationship with Sudan should not be linked to the Olympics, which have become a source of national pride. 
 In a statement sent to the Chinese ambassador and the Beijing Olympic committee on Tuesday, Mr. Spielberg said that his ''conscience will not allow me to continue with business as usual.''
 ''Sudan's government bears the bulk of the responsibility for these ongoing crimes but the international community, and particularly China, should be doing more to end the continuing human suffering there,'' the statement said. ''China's economic, military and diplomatic ties to the government of Sudan continue to provide it with the opportunity and obligation to press for change.''
 Responding to Mr. Spielberg's action, a spokesman at the Chinese Embassy in Washington said, ''As the Darfur issue is neither an internal issue of China nor is it caused by China, it is completely unreasonable, irresponsible and unfair to link the two as one.''
 Mr. Spielberg had written to Mr. Hu about Darfur twice in the past 10 months, his spokesman said, taking China to task for its ''silence'' while Sudan blocked the deployment of international peacekeepers and expelled aid workers from the region. 
 In September, Mr. Spielberg also met with China's special envoy to Darfur at the Chinese mission to the United Nations, said Mr. Spielberg's spokesman, Andy Spahn. 
 None of those efforts yielded the results Mr. Spielberg wanted, Mr. Spahn said. In the meantime, Mr. Spielberg had come under increasing pressure from advocates working on Darfur, including a campaign by the actress Mia Farrow, to drop his association with the Beijing Olympics.
 After receiving word that Mr. Spielberg had done just that, Ms. Farrow was jubilant.
 ''His voice and all of the moral authority it gives, used this way, brings a shred of hope to Darfur, and God knows, rations of hope are meager at this time,'' said Ms. Farrow, a good-will ambassador for the Unicef who helped start a campaign last year to label the Games in Beijing the ''Genocide Olympics.'' 
 The actor Don Cheadle, a co-founder of Not On Our Watch, a Darfur advocacy group, said he hoped that Mr. Spielberg's actions would force China to rethink its position. ''One guy like Steven in a position like that is like 100 other guys,'' he said. ''Those are the kinds of moves, that if they catch fire, and other people think of boycotting, or refraining, the cumulative effect could be something that potentially could change the calculation of that government.''
 Mr. Spahn said Mr. Spielberg planned to encourage others to do more to pressure China on Darfur, but he did not offer details. Advocates said they hoped to enlist help from corporate sponsors of the Olympics. 
 China has fought attempts to link Darfur to the Olympics, but it has also responded at times to the pressure. 
 Last year, shortly after Mr. Spielberg's first letter to Mr. Hu, China dispatched a senior official to Sudan to push the government to accept a peacekeeping force and appointed a special envoy. 
 But the Sudanese military has continued its attacks there, as recently as last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); PEACEKEEPING (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (68%); GENOCIDE (68%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); SUDAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



342 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Bush, at Commemoration, Says Nooses Are Symbol of 'Gross Injustice'

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Making some of his most pointed remarks on race relations, President Bush on Tuesday denounced racially charged incidents involving nooses and called the era of lynchings from the 19th to the 20th centuries ''a shameful chapter in American history.'' 
 ''The noose is not a symbol of prairie justice, but of gross injustice,'' Mr. Bush said at a ceremony in the East Room of the White House. ''Displaying one is not a harmless prank. And 'lynching' is not a word to be mentioned in jest. 
 ''As a civil society, we should be able to agree that noose displays and lynching jokes are deeply offensive. They are wrong. And they have no place in America today.''
 The remarks followed highly publicized cases in which nooses were brazenly and intimidatingly displayed, including at Columbia University and on a Coast Guard cutter. Many of the cases followed a seething racial and legal dispute in Jena, La., where nooses were hung from a schoolyard tree in 2006 and where six black teenagers were charged with beating a white student.
 The president made his remarks at a ceremony commemorating African-American History Month, an annual event that he has previously used to praise the political, social and economic contributions of blacks, though rarely to speak as passionately as he did on Tuesday. 
 Mr. Bush did not address the Jena case. The case has revived accusations that his administration has not done enough to prosecute hate crimes. In September, when the main case prompted protests and marches over the teenagers' prosecutions, Mr. Bush said that the events saddened him and that the Justice Department would monitor the problem. 
 His press secretary, Dana M. Perino, cited reports detailing more than 70 instances in which nooses had been displayed since the publicity in the Jena case. Mr. Bush's reference to jokes about lynching appeared to refer to a furor last month over comments by a Golf Channel commentator, Kelly Tilghman, about Tiger Woods and a subsequent Golfweek magazine that depicted a noose on the cover.
 Mr. Bush said the use of such language and images revealed ignorance about ''why the sight of a noose causes such a visceral reaction among so many people.'' He described mobs' carrying out lynchings under the cover of darkness, ''in many cases'' with the complicity of law enforcement officials. 
 ''For generations of African-Americans, the noose was more than a tool of murder,'' the president said. ''It was a tool of intimidation that conveyed a sense of powerlessness to millions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); GOLF (61%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TIGER WOODS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



343 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Better Odds In Politics Than Poker

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There is a professional poker player in Queens named Serge Ravitch who is convinced that he can make money off this year's presidential election. But to explain what he's up to, I want to start with a story about last week's Democratic primary in California. 
 By early evening last Tuesday, the day of the primary, Hillary Clinton looked very likely to win California. The initial exit polls, which were released to the media around 5 p.m. Eastern time and posted on variousblogs by 7 p.m., showed Mrs. Clinton ahead by three points. As subsequent polls came out, her lead grew.
 But everyone knows that exit polls can be misleading. (If early exit polls were always right, President John Kerry would now be running for re-election.) So on Tuesday evening, I also checked out Intrade, a Web site where people buy and sell contracts whose price is tied to real-world events. Strangely enough, the prices on Intrade were suggesting that Barack Obama would win California. 
 There was good reason to take those odds seriously: Intrade has done an excellent job of predicting election results over the last few years. In 2004, President Bush won every state in which Intrade's contracts -- as of the night before Election Day -- gave him a better than 50 percent chance of winning. He lost every state where the traders thought Mr. Kerry was the favorite. Late on election night in 2006, while the talking heads on CNN and MSNBC were still saying that the Republicans would hold onto the Senate, Intrade knew better.
 It's no wonder, then, that the site has become a phenomenon. In recent months, when I have asked former advisers to Mr. Bush or Bill Clinton what they think will happen in 2008, they've often talked about Intrade. The Wall Street Journal and The Financial Times run regular online features based on the odds. Journalists -- me included -- have praised Intrade as a miniature version of the stock market, where the collective wisdom of the masses reveals a larger truth.
 But now a little backlash has begun. Barry Ritholtz, author of the popular Big Picture economics blog, has put together a list of Intrade's misses. Last Tuesday, meanwhile, I e-mailed a high-profile Democratic economist and asked what he made of the dueling numbers coming from the California polls and from Intrade. He replied with a salty message, dismissing the usefulness of Intrade. Then there is Mr. Ravitch, a 27-year-old lawyer turned poker player whose previous claim to fame was his role in exposing an online-poker cheating scandal. In late December, he started posting notes on an Internet message board vowing to profit from what he saw as Intrade's blatant inefficiencies. He has generally been announcing his trades as he makes them, and most of them have paid off. In the span of just six weeks, he says, he has earned a 35 percent return.
 ''I believe quite simply that the people who are trading on Intrade and the methods they're using are so flawed that they can't be right in the long run,'' he told me. 
 After what happened in the California primary -- Mrs. Clinton won there handily -- I started to wonder if he had a point.
 The mechanics of Intrade are simple enough. You can buy or sell a contract tied to the outcome of an event -- Will Barack Obama win the California primary? Will ''Atonement'' win Best Picture? Will the United States or Israel bomb Iran this year? -- so long as you can find someone else willing to be on the opposite side of the bet. Once the outcome becomes clear, the contract pays either $10 or nothing at all. 
 At 8:30 p.m. last Tuesday, the Obama-wins-California contract was selling for about $6 (which meant the market collectively thought he had a 60 percent chance of winning). If I wanted to bet on him and you agreed to bet against him, I would have deposited $6 in your Intrade account. Had he won, you would have owed me $10 -- the original $6, plus $4 in profit. Since he didn't win, you would have kept my money. It's all very similar to the futures market on Wall Street.
 Or at least it's similar in concept. 
 In practice, Intrade is different because there still isn't all that much trading on the site. (For legal reasons, Americans often have to use bank transfers, instead of credit cards, on the site.) John Delaney, Intrade's chief executive, said that roughly $50 million in contracts tied to the 2008 election had changed hands already, which is up from $15 million for the entire 2004 election cycle. But $50 million is still roughly equal to the value of ExxonMobil shares that change hands every 10 minutes.
 The limited size of Intrade's market has created two main problems. The first is that the biases of a small group of traders can have a big effect on prices. And these biases seem most obvious in exaggerated odds for unlikely events. As Justin Wolfers, a University of Pennsylvania economist who studies prediction markets, notes, the odds ''hit 5 or 10 all the time when a guy is dead in the water.'' 
 Mr. Ravitch has made a nice profit betting against Ron Paul, the libertarian who late last year was, amazingly, given almost a 10 percent chance of becoming the Republican nominee. ''If you asked anyone in politics whether there was ever, at any point, a 10 percent chance of Ron Paul being the nominee,'' Mr. Ravitch said, without finishing the sentence. ''That sort of makes my case for me.''
 In a more liquid market, Mr. Paul's small band of intense supporters wouldn't be able to affect his price. On Intrade, they can. Along similar lines, Al Gore is now given an 11 percent chance of being the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, which Mr. Ravitch considers silly. 
 The second problem is that the market seems to react to new information too slowly. In a healthier market, you can't easily predict where prices are going. After the drug maker Schering-Plough reported strong earnings on Tuesday, for example, its stock price jumped. But the stock is unlikely to continue soaring in coming weeks. The market has already adjusted to the news.
 On Intrade, such reactions often happen in slow motion -- and eventually turn into overreactions. Mr. Obama's stock rose for days after he won Iowa, then fell during the two weeks after he lost New Hampshire and rose again in the 10 days after he won South Carolina. The impact of each contest took surprisingly long to sink in. 
 For this reason, Mr. Ravitch has recently been betting that the odds of Mr. Obama's getting the Democratic nomination will keep going up this month, even though they were already around 60 percent when we spoke late last week. As Mr. Obama wins more primaries, Mr. Ravitch figures the contracts will continue to gain value, and he can then sell them before the March primaries, which look more favorable to Mrs. Clinton. 
 I suspect that something similar happened with the California contracts: There simply wasn't enough trading volume to ensure that the market reacted quickly enough to new information. There wasn't enough smart money.
 The California prices were particularly striking, because in the past Intrade had been most useful on the day of elections. Its longer-term odds -- like the fact that the Democrats are given a 66 percent chance of winning the White House -- may be interesting, but they are based on probabilities that are inherently unknowable. On Election Day, by contrast, the odds can reflect real information, like exit polls, voter turnout and early returns. 
 So it's certainly fair to say that Intrade isn't as advanced as some of us had thought. But that's why the existence of people like Mr. Ravitch is so welcome. As more traders try to exploit Intrade's inefficiencies, those inefficiencies will become rarer and rarer. 
 Already, academic studies have shown that Intrade's record is better than that of any single poll or any single pundit. Come Tuesday -- when voters in Wisconsin and Hawaii go to the polls -- I'll be back at Intrade to try to figure out what's going on. If you have any better ideas of where to look, let me know. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE CHANCE OF BEING THE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE BASED ON INTRADE CONTRACTS (SOURCE: INTRADE) (pg.C1)
 TRADING FOR A PRESIDENT: Intrade is an online futures exchange on which traders buy and sell contracts tied to the outcome of an event like the Oscars, the weather and elections. The prices of the contracts correlate to the likelihood of the outcome. Thus if the ''Barack Obama to win 2008 U.S. presidential election'' contract is trading at $47.10, the Intrade market believes there is a 47.1% chance that he will win the election. (Source: Intrade) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POKER (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WRITERS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (64%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



344 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Lifeline for Whom?

 BODY:
When pressed by government officials, the mortgage industry has repeatedly pledged to modify the loans of at-risk borrowers. 
 In May last year, Senator Christopher Dodd, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, convened a group of major banks and loan servicers that promised to ''create a permanent solution,'' wherever possible, for troubled subprime borrowers. Then there was Hope Now, created last October and, now, as of Tuesday, Project Lifeline, both created at the urging of the Bush administration and both involving mortgage industry honchos promising to help hard-pressed borrowers. 
 If the industry had kept the promises they made last May, the other two efforts might not have been needed. So it's unclear why the administration continues to believe that urging the industry to do more is the most effective way to cope with the foreclosure crisis. The industry, for its part, has earned the skepticism that has greeted its serial promises. 
 Under Hope Now, the industry has said it would freeze the interest rates on many subprime loans starting this year. But the group is not expected to report reliable results until sometime in March, at the earliest. Under Project Lifeline, banks are promising to delay foreclosure proceedings for 30 days for delinquent borrowers with both subprime and higher-quality loans. During the pause, the banks would presumably try to modify the loans to make them affordable over the long run. What they actually will do is anybody's guess. 
 We do know that 1.6 million borrowers defaulted on their home loans last year and millions more are anticipated in the next few years. Even if the industry-led efforts were very successful, a big if, they're not expected to be anywhere near enough help to stop the damaging fallout from widespread foreclosures -- on neighborhoods, cities and the broader economy. 
 On Thursday, Treasury Secretary Paulson, who took a leading role in creating Hope Now and Project Lifeline, is scheduled to testify before the Senate Banking Committee. The members of the committee should quickly disabuse him of any notion he may have that he's doing enough. He should be asked to explain, specifically, what will be different at the end of Project Lifeline's 30-day timeout. The only acceptable answer would be widespread modifications that reduce loan balances, reduce interest rates or extend the terms of the loans. And the committee should make clear that it is moving ahead with other more forceful solutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (72%); HENRY PAULSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



345 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Teachers' Union President to Step Down; New Yorker Is Seen as Successor

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Edward J. McElroy, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, announced Tuesday that he would step down in the summer, a move widely expected to put Randi Weingarten, the president of the teachers' union in New York City, in line to succeed him. 
 Ms. Weingarten, who won significant pay raises for teachers in recent contracts, said only that she was weighing a run for the presidency of the national union, which represents 1.2 million teachers, school aides and other workers. But union officials and other educators say she all but has the job wrapped up. 
 ''Randi seems like the likely successor -- there's obviously no clear alternative,'' said Andrew J. Rotherham, a former member of the Clinton administration who is director of Education Sector, an independent policy group.
 Mr. McElroy called Ms. Weingarten ''an outstanding possibility'' in a telephone interview from San Diego, where his union's executive council was meeting. ''I think the world of her.'' 
 Mr. McElroy, 66, took his union's helm in 2004 after his predecessor, Sandra Feldman, stepped down because of breast cancer. She died a year later.
 He has turned the union into one of the nation's fastest growing; it added 81,000 workers last year, including 28,000 child care providers in New York City.
 Mr. McElroy, who was the union's secretary-treasurer for 12 years before becoming president, was widely seen as a transitional figure. He spent much of his focus on A.F.L.-C.I.O. matters and on strengthening his union's state federations and political activities. He was less focused on broader educational issues.
 ''I've pushed most for getting the union back to organizing and for strengthening our political program,'' said Mr. McElroy, who is proud of his union's fervent campaigning for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 Ms. Weingarten, 50, who was widely seen as a protege to Ms. Feldman, praised Mr. McElroy in a statement.
 ''I am honored by the talk of my potential candidacy, and I will certainly give national union service serious and careful consideration,'' she said, adding that she would consult with the union's leaders as well as with her members in New York at the United Federation of Teachers. 
 In July, 2,000 delegates from the nationwide union will meet in Chicago to elect new leaders. Several union officials said it was possible that Ms. Weingarten would run unopposed.
 Several education experts said she was likely to make the union more open to changes like performance-based pay and charter schools, which get public money but are independently run. 
 ''In New York, she's been willing to take on some pretty leading-edge ideas,'' Mr. Rotherham said. ''Under her leadership, the U.F.T. has opened two charter schools, and they're piloting a pay-for-performance plan.''
 In many cities, including New York, teachers' union locals have opposed merit pay that ties a teacher's pay to how his students perform on tests. But last year Ms. Weingarten and her union struck a deal with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg for a schoolwide bonus pay plan in which teachers in some of the poorest neighborhoods could receive bonuses.
 In her decade heading the union, Ms. Weingarten alternately battled and cooperated with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Mr. Bloomberg. She said her most important accomplishment was ''to take teachers to a different income bracket.''
 ''When I look at the teaching force these days, because of the 43 percent raise we were able to negotiate between 2002 and 2008, you see a real change in their economic status,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Randi Weingarten of the United Federation of Teachers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHER UNIONS (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MERIT PAY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BREAST CANCER (53%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); CHILD CARE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



346 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Aid Borrowers Is Greeted by Criticism

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A Bush administration plan to delay foreclosures for some troubled homeowners met a cool reaction on Tuesday from politicians and investors who questioned its ability to stave off what could be a long and painful string of mortgage defaults.
 The plan, called Project Lifeline, was endorsed by six major mortgage lenders and described by administration officials as a much-needed balm for the pained housing market. 
 Wall Street analysts, however, said the plan fell short of the broad reforms necessary to help people meet mortgage payments as home values drop and foreclosures rise. 
 Under the plan, borrowers who are at least three months behind on their mortgage payments can apply to their lender for a 30-day ''pause'' on foreclosure proceedings. Homeowners who are bankrupt or face foreclosure within the next month do not qualify.
 If the delay is granted, lenders can use the window to work out a more affordable mortgage for the delinquent borrower, although there is no actual requirement for them to do so.
 At a news conference in Washington on Tuesday, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, said the plan would ''help American families who both want to and can, through a loan modification or refinancing, stay in their homes.''
 The plan is the latest in series of government-led efforts to alleviate the credit crisis. So far, those initiatives have met with little success. Mr. Paulson said the latest plan was an incremental step. Other financial observers, from Wall Street to Washington, were less generous.
 ''These policies make nice politics because it says our politicians care about us and don't want the impersonal market forces to hurt the innocent,'' said Marc Chandler, the top currency strategist for Brown Brothers Harriman. ''They don't seem to address the real underlying cause of the angst in the market.''
 And Senator Charles E. Schumer, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee in Congress, said in a statement that the plan failed to offer enough help.
 ''It is encouraging that lenders and servicers are willing to temporarily pause foreclosures, but only meaningful and long-term loan modifications will help keep people in their homes,'' Mr. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said. 
 Government and mortgage industry officials said they did not know how many homeowners would be helped by the plan. According to an analysis by Moody'sEconomy.com, a financial Web site, about 425,000 homeowners are eligible to benefit from the plan, but in practice, only a fraction would be helped.
 ''Treasury and industry continue to underestimate the problems and overestimate the ability of the industry to voluntarily deal with it,'' said Kathleen Day, a spokeswoman for the Center for Responsible Lending.
 As home prices fall and lending standards tighten, banks and other financial firms are facing the prospect of widespread defaults on mortgages, potentially causing billions of dollars in additional losses for the industry. More than 1.6 million mortgage holders defaulted on home loans in 2007, and at least that many are expected to default this year, according to Economy.com.
 The new plan follows a program announced in December by the Bush administration that would freeze interest rates on certain subprime loans. Unlike that effort, this plan will apply to all home mortgages. 
 On Wall Street, stock markets fell back slightly after the plan was announced late Tuesday morning, though the Dow Jones industrials ended the day up 133 points at 12,373.41. 
 Shares of the six participating lenders ended the day mixed. Bank of America, Citigroup, Countrywide Financial, and Wells Fargo rose more than 1.5 percent, while Washington Mutual and JPMorgan Chase declined. The broader Standard and Poor's 500-stock index closed up 0.7 percent at 1,348.86, led by the telecommunications and financial services industries. 
 The Paulson plan ''didn't look like any of it had teeth,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. ''I didn't see where there was anything new.''
 Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at the Hartford, a financial services firm, said she considered the Paulson plan ''one gesture, one of many.''
 ''You go with this one first and see what you can do,'' she said. ''It's not going to be the panacea, but it's a small attempt.'' 
 Following are the results of Tuesday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Floyd Robinson, right, of Bank of America's real estate group, at a news conference Tuesday with Alphonso R. Jackson, left, the housing secretary, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., Treasury secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (SOURCES: ASSOCIATED PRESS
BLOOMBERG FINANCIAL MARKETS)
 THE FAVORITES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); ALPHONSO JACKSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



347 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: 'Venom'? 'Cult'? It's Campaign Fever

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Hate Springs Eternal,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Feb. 11):
 Mr. Krugman, a consistent critic of Barack Obama, did not produce a shred of evidence for his categorical statement that the ''venom'' being displayed in the Democratic campaign comes from Obama supporters, ''who want their hero or nobody.'' And it seems to perpetuate the same bizarre bitterness that he derides in his column.
 Even worse is his assertion that ''the Obama campaign seems dangerously close to becoming a cult of personality.'' I am surprised and saddened that a thoughtful public intellectual like Mr. Krugman would write such a careless and unfair statement at a moment of critical potential in national politics.
 Barack Obama is changing the way we think about race in America. His inclusive message is so refreshing that, in addition to strong backing from blacks, he is drawing unprecedented nationwide support from white voters. It is so upsetting that this remarkable and historic feat is belittled as a ''cult of personality.'' 
 William Julius Wilson Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 11, 2008
 The writer is a professor of sociology and social policy at Harvard University.
 To the Editor:
 I see nothing illogical that a close competition for the most important leadership role in the world would be extremely competitive. But venomous? We're not even close. Just this year, the Republicans (John McCain versus Mitt Romney) have been much more combative than Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 Perhaps Paul Krugman is closer to the point in recognizing that we are a nation focused on personality; much of what passes for public discourse is driven by celebrity, hyped-up conflict, and the trend for news and sports coverage to resemble each other. 
 Barack Obama's supporters certainly did not create this trend, nor can they be faulted for recognizing that character and inspiration are as important as ideas in picking a leader. This is not a result of some irrational spell, and implying that we're joining a cult of personality really misses the point about our recognizing the qualities our nation needs to effectively move forward to collectively meet our challenges. 
 Richard C. Hubbard Evanston, Ill., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman decries the ''bitterness of the fight for the Democratic nomination'' and then proceeds to contribute to the name-calling by comparing Obama supporters to members of a ''cult.'' I find that offensive.
 I am passionately in favor of a change from the current administration. Does that make me a member of a cult? I am passionately opposed to a Clinton presidency. Does that make me a member of a cult?
 Like thousands of other voters who lean Democratic, I don't pledge allegiance to the Democratic Party. I will vote for the candidate I think will best serve the nation. 
 I don't have to give Mr. Krugman or anyone else my strong assurances that I will support the Democratic nominee, and I don't have to apologize to Mr. Krugman or any Democratic Party apparatchik for passionately opposing Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 Robert Bonello Edina, Minn., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As a self-identified progressive, I often find useful insights and information in Paul Krugman's columns. Not so in ''Hate Springs Eternal.'' 
 Mr. Krugman paints supporters of Barack Obama with too broad a brush when he alleges that they ''want their hero or nobody,'' and therefore engage in venomous attacks on Mr. Obama's rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 I am an Obama supporter, as are many people I know. Every Obama supporter I know wants to see a Democrat next in the White House first, and Mr. Obama as that Democrat only second. The ''examples'' Mr. Krugman cites demonstrate that Clinton-bashing is popular sport, not that Obama supporters (rather than the media or isolated individuals) engage in it.
 To top it all off, Mr. Krugman compares Mr. Obama's ability to inspire and organize to George W. Bush's demonstrated penchant for conceit and self-indulgence in Operation Flight Suit. Who's perpetuating ''Nixonland'' now?
 Brian W. Stull Durham, N.C., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Cult of personality, indeed. Barack Obama has style, but no substance. He has been in national politics only a couple of years. And the media have given him a virtually free ride. 
 But we did ''likability'' and inexperience eight years ago with George W. Bush and look where that's gotten us. It is frightening how easily some of us are persuaded by hype, especially when we are confronting such serious problems as a nation and in the world.
 Hillary Rodham Clinton does have substance: knowledge, experience, intelligence, sensitivity, stamina. She has withstood attacks from all sides and come out whole. She is the only candidate in this race in whom I have complete faith and confidence to do the right thing. With all that is at stake, I can only hope that the media will start doing their job and that the American people will see the light this time around. 
 D. Murphy Merrick, N.Y., Feb. 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I believe this is the first time I've ever disagreed with Paul Krugman. The source of vitriol is not to be found in the putative ''cult of personality'' among supporters of Barack Obama. The source is not to be found among supporters at all. One needs to look at the leaderships of the campaigns. 
 Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign keeps careening between sweetness and scorched-earth policies. Mrs. Clinton has created an impression that she will do anything and say anything to win, from sponsoring flag-preservation legislation to the bizarre racial innuendo by her campaign in South Carolina. (Does South Carolina bring out the worst in every campaign?) 
 The vitriol is not the result of a cult of personality in the Obama camp. The vitriol is a reaction to very real deficiencies in Mrs. Clinton's personality.
 Bill Morris San Diego, Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Senator Barack Obama's campaign reminds me of a series of revival meetings. There's the charismatic speaker who uses emotional words to raise the audience to a fever pitch, followed by conversion to his ideas and the passing of the hat.
 Supporters who wrap themselves in these emotional promises find that it works for a while. But then it grows quiet, and looking around, the converts see that the revival tent has moved on and everyday life intervenes. 
 Where is the critical thinking here about how to achieve getting out of Iraq? To help the economy? To solve the health care crisis? There's just the emptiness of the emotional words, ringing hollow in the air. 
 Sue Roupp Evanston, Ill., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Can't Paul Krugman see that there is a growing number of Americans who do not want to relive the days of Clintonian testiness and right-wing vitriol? Former President Bill Clinton alerted many of us to the dangers of a Hillary Rodham Clinton victory by his arrogant behavior in the week before the South Carolina primary.
 The fact that many Democratic voters would simply stay home in November rather than vote for Hillary Clinton is not a sign of ''hate'' or ''venom.''
 Mr. Krugman brings up his preference for Mrs. Clinton's health care agenda, but why should we think she could achieve it after a bitter campaign, without enough Democratic senators to break a Republican filibuster and with the same old team back in charge?
 Bill Dawers Savannah, Ga., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman, in his account of the strong emotions that the Clinton-Obama race has raised among progressives, doesn't mention one notable fact. 
 Many antiwar Democrats continue to view with suspicion Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's attitude toward the Iraq war. Her clarifications for her support of the various pro-war bills proposed by President Bush revolve around her criticisms of the execution of the war, not around the thinking that led us into the war in the first place.
 Progressives have found Senator Barack Obama's more specific denunciation of the whole mind-set that created the war much more helpful. I believe that it continues to be a leading explanation for why he is doing so much better against Mrs. Clinton than anyone originally predicted. 
 Jon Landau Purchase, N.Y., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I agree with Paul Krugman's assertion that the attitude ''their hero or nobody'' is divisive and silly. But just because both Democratic candidates are strong doesn't mean I find them to be equal. 
 I resent the implication that ''hero worship'' is inherently dogmatic or without substance. I long for a day when I can name a sitting American president as my hero.
 For me, one of Barack Obama's biggest strengths, both as a leader and as a candidate, is that he inspires people to participate in politics who otherwise wouldn't get involved. 
 If voters fail to respond to Hillary Rodham Clinton in that way, I think it's much more a legitimate flaw on her part than it is an example of Americans falling prey to ''Clinton rules.''
 Though Mr. Obama is my preference, if Mrs. Clinton is the nominee, I will campaign for her 100 percent because I want to see a Democrat in the White House. For the moment, however, this is still a contest, and I feel no obligation to come to the defense of someone who is my second choice. 
 If Mrs. Clinton can't stand against me, who sees her merely as the lesser of an embarrassment of riches, how will she ever last when the opponent gets much tougher? 
 Suzanne Joskow Los Angeles, Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The Barack Obama supporters I know would ultimately be happy to see any Democrat become president. ''It's an embarrassment of riches,'' I've heard from my fellow Democrats countless times. Both candidates are smart, experienced and capable. 
 I voted for Mr. Obama, but I will support his opponent with unmitigated enthusiasm should she win the nomination. Where Paul Krugman sees a ''cult of personality'' forming around Mr. Obama, I see involved citizens who are deeply excited about their candidate. 
 Mr. Obama is not L. Ron Hubbard. If there's an Obama cult, then there's also a Hillary Rodham Clinton cult, a John McCain cult, a Mike Huckabee cult and so on. 
 Mr. Krugman, usually so dead-on, is way off in this case. 
 Laura Cummins New York, Feb. 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TRENDS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); WRITERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



348 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 399 words

 BODY:
BUFFETT TO THE RESCUE Warren E. Buffett offered to shoulder some of the financial burden of three bond insurance companies, a move analysts called a shrewd attempt to take advantage of the companies' problems. 
 SENATE BACKS SPY PROGRAM The Senate voted to broaden the government's surveillance powers and give legal protection to phone companies that cooperated in President Bush's wiretapping program. [A1.]
 G.M. OFFERS BUYOUTS General Motors said it lost $722 million in the fourth quarter and a record $38.7 billion in 2007, prompting the automaker to offer buyouts to its 74,000 hourly employees. [C1.]
 PROTECTING ITS IMAGE Shifting strategies often blur distinct corporate cultures, but Southwest Airlines is trying to keep its inner quirkiness. [C1.]
 WHEAT PRICES JUMP Soaring demand has pushed the world's wheat stockpiles to their lowest level in 30 years, causing trading prices to rise. [C1.]
 DELETING FACEBOOK DATA Facing criticism that it is difficult to remove personal information from Facebook, the site said it would let users delete their accounts permanently by telling the company to do so. [C1.]
 NOKIA'S CHALLENGE Analysts estimate that Nokia reached a record 40.2 percent global market share, but competitors say Nokia is still vulnerable to the vagaries of the cellphone business. [C2.]
 INTERNET DISPUTE Arrests in Hong Kong over explicit images has led to a debate over free speech and whether police are selectively enforcing antipornography laws. [C3.]
 YAHOO BUYS AD FIRM Yahoo said its $160 million acquisition of an Internet advertising technology company would help it sell and deliver video ads on its site and other sites. [C3.]
 BETTER RESULTS FOR AVASTINGenentech said a new study showed that its best-selling drug Avastin was effective in treating breast cancer, which could help it obtain approval from the Food and Drug Administration. [C3.]
 BIG WINNERS Small businesses may get the biggest lift from the $168 billion economic stimulus package when consumers start spending their tax rebates. [C3.]
 LIFELINE SCRUTINIZED Politicians and investors questioned the Bush administration's plan to delay foreclosures for some troubled homeowners. [C4.]
 WATER, WATER EVERYWHERE A campaign that began in New York to provide clean drinking water to children in underdeveloped countries will expand to other cities this year. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C5.]

GRAPHIC: CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); INSURANCE (78%); POLITICS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (75%); WHEAT MARKETS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); WIRETAPPING (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (70%); PORNOGRAPHY (70%); CORPORATE CULTURE (69%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); TAX LAW (64%); TAX RELIEF (61%); FORECLOSURE (61%); BREAST CANCER (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); YAHOO! INC (02%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); LUV (NYSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (02%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (02%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (02%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (02%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



349 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA CAPTURES 3 MORE CONTESTS BY BIG MARGINS

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and DALIA SUSSMAN; Michael Cooper contributed reporting from Arlington, Va.; Patrick Healy from El Paso; and Jeff Zeleny from Madison, Wis.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama rolled to victory by large margins in Virginia, Maryland and the District of Columbia on Tuesday, extending his winning streak over Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton to eight Democratic nominating contests.
 The outcome provided him his first chance to assert that the Democratic race, which had seemed to be heading into a protracted standoff, is beginning to break in his direction. And it left Mrs. Clinton facing weeks in which she has few opportunities for the kind of victory that would alter the race in her favor after a string of defeats notable not just for their number but also their magnitude. 
 In Tuesday's contests, Mr. Obama showed impressive strength among not only the groups that have backed him in earlier contests -- blacks, younger voters, the affluent and self-described independents -- but also among older voters, women and lower-income people, the core of Mrs. Clinton's support up to now, according to exit polls. Mr. Obama also won majorities of white men and Hispanic voters in Virginia, though not in Maryland.
 With almost all precincts reporting, Mr. Obama won 75 percent of the vote in the District of Columbia and 64 percent in Virginia. He had 60 percent of the vote in Maryland with results from 67 percent of the precincts. 
 On the Republican side, Senator John McCain won in Virginia over Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, virtually eliminating any threat that Mr. Huckabee might have posed to Mr. McCain's status as his party's all but certain nominee. 
 Mr. Huckabee got a boost from conservative and evangelical Christian voters in the state, but not enough to overcome support among moderates and nonevangelical Christians for Mr. McCain, who won 50 percent of the vote. Mr. McCain also prevailed in the District of Columbia, with 68 percent of the vote, and in Maryland, where he had 55 percent of the vote with 67 percent of the precincts reporting. 
 He said of Mr. Huckabee, ''He certainly keeps things interesting -- maybe a little too interesting at times tonight, I must confess.''
 Mr. McCain turned his attention to attacks on his Democratic opponents, saying they ''promise a new approach to governing but offer only the policies of a political orthodoxy that insists the solution to government's failures is to simply make it bigger.''
 In all, 168 pledged delegates were at stake for the Democrats and 116 for the Republicans. The Democrats will divide delegates proportionally to the candidates' vote statewide and at the Congressional level while the Republican races are winner-take-all.
 Mr. Obama's victories gave him a lead over Mrs. Clinton among pledged delegates, according to preliminary counts by the Obama campaign and some news organizations. Obama aides calculate that he also leads in delegate counts that include so-called superdelegates, the party officers and elected officials who control 20 percent of the total delegates to the Democratic convention.
 Mrs. Clinton's campaign has suffered in recent weeks from overspending and internal upheaval, including the demotion of the campaign manager, Patti Solis Doyle, late last week and the resignation Tuesday of the deputy campaign manager, Mike Henry.
 Mr. Obama, looking ahead to the next contest, was in Madison, Wis., when the results came in. In remarks to a boisterous rally, he did not mention Mrs. Clinton by name. But over loud applause he declared: ''We also know that at this moment the cynics can no longer say our hope is false. We have now won east and west, north and south, and across the heartland of this country we love.''
 Mrs. Clinton essentially conceded the three contests Tuesday morning by leaving Washington to campaign in Texas. She scheduled four days of appearances in Wisconsin, which holds its primary next Tuesday, but where Mr. Obama already has a significant ground operation and is spending heavily on advertising. Hawaii, where Mr. Obama largely grew up, also holds its nominating caucuses next Tuesday. But the Clinton campaign's major efforts will be in Texas and Ohio, which vote on March 4. Rhode Island and Vermont also hold primaries that day.
 Mrs. Clinton's advisers say she will focus on winning over voters in Ohio and Texas to halt Mr. Obama's growing momentum and to try to stay close in the count of pledged delegates. The Clinton campaign hopes that Ohio, with large numbers of lower-income and older voters, and Texas, with a large Latino electorate, will serve as a seawall against the Obama surge. The Clinton campaign is also looking to Pennsylvania, which votes on April 22, to provide another big-state victory and to stay competitive in the delegate chase. 
 ''We are going to sweep across Texas in the next three weeks bringing our message about what we need in America, the kind of president we need on Day One to be commander in chief and turn the economy around,'' Mrs. Clinton said at a rally in El Paso on Tuesday night, making no reference to her losses back East. ''I'm tested. I'm ready. Let's make it happen.''
 But in the meantime, Mr. Obama will have a chance to begin convincing his party that his series of convincing wins in the last week represents a turning point in the campaign and that now is the time for Democrats to begin rallying around him as the strongest candidate to take back the White House. 
 Turnout was brisk in all three jurisdictions, with long lines at polling stations but few serious problems reported. Bill O'Field, spokesman for the District of Columbia Board of Elections and Ethics said that turnout had surpassed previous primaries, with some precincts ran out of paper ballots, but that voting was never halted because the stations had electronic voting machines as well.
 In Maryland, polls stayed open an extra 90 minutes, until 9:30 p.m., because of bad road conditions caused by sleet and freezing rain.
 Three in 10 voters in Tuesday's Republican primary in Virginia described themselves as very conservative, and two-thirds of them supported Mr. Huckabee. And 6 in 10 evangelical Christians, who accounted for nearly half of Republican voters here, backed Mr. Huckabee.
 Mr. McCain, for his part, had an edge among voters who said they were ''somewhat'' conservative, as well as broad support among moderates and non-evangelical Christians.
 But the exit poll further underscored some of Mr. McCain's potential vulnerabilities among conservatives going forward. Half of all Republican voters in Virginia said his positions on the issues were not conservative enough. And while 7 in 10 conservative voters said they would be satisfied if Mr. McCain wins the nomination, fewer than 4 in 10 of them would be ''very'' satisfied.
 Mr. Obama's strength in Virginia and Maryland crossed a range of demographic groups, according to exit polls conducted by Edison/Mitofsky for the National Election Pool. He received support from voters across all income and education levels, as well as across political ideologies, from those who described themselves as liberal, moderate and conservative Democrats. And independents, who were allowed to vote in Virginia's Democratic primary and accounted for 2 in 10 voters there, supported Mr. Obama two to one over Mrs. Clinton.
 Mrs. Clinton received the support of a majority of white women voting in Virginia and Maryland, but Mr. Obama countered with overwhelming support among black voters, men and women alike. Among white men, Mr. Obama won a majority in Virginia and ran close to Mrs. Clinton in Maryland.
 More than 6 in 10 men in both states supported Mr. Obama, as dida majority of women, big changes from numbers in earlier primaries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barack Obama (pg.A1)
 Senator Barack Obama told supporters at a rally on Tuesday in Madison, Wis., ''We also know that at this moment the cynics can no longer say our hope is false.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) CHART: Results From Tuesday's contests. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SUPERDELEGATES (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); RELIGION (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (74%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



350 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: 'Venom'? 'Cult'? It's Campaign Fever

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Hate Springs Eternal,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Feb. 11):
 Mr. Krugman, a consistent critic of Barack Obama, did not produce a shred of evidence for his categorical statement that the ''venom'' being displayed in the Democratic campaign comes from Obama supporters, ''who want their hero or nobody.'' And it seems to perpetuate the same bizarre bitterness that he derides in his column.
 Even worse is his assertion that ''the Obama campaign seems dangerously close to becoming a cult of personality.'' I am surprised and saddened that a thoughtful public intellectual like Mr. Krugman would write such a careless and unfair statement at a moment of critical potential in national politics.
 Barack Obama is changing the way we think about race in America. His inclusive message is so refreshing that, in addition to strong backing from blacks, he is drawing unprecedented nationwide support from white voters. It is so upsetting that this remarkable and historic feat is belittled as a ''cult of personality.'' William Julius Wilson 
 Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 11, 2008
 The writer is a professor of sociology and social policy at Harvard University.
 To the Editor:
 I see nothing illogical that a close competition for the most important leadership role in the world would be extremely competitive. But venomous? We're not even close. Just this year, the Republicans (John McCain versus Mitt Romney) have been much more combative than Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 Perhaps Paul Krugman is closer to the point in recognizing that we are a nation focused on personality; much of what passes for public discourse is driven by celebrity, hyped-up conflict, and the trend for news and sports coverage to resemble each other. 
 Barack Obama's supporters certainly did not create this trend, nor can they be faulted for recognizing that character and inspiration are as important as ideas in picking a leader. This is not a result of some irrational spell, and implying that we're joining a cult of personality really misses the point about our recognizing the qualities our nation needs to effectively move forward to collectively meet our challenges. 
 Richard C. Hubbard
 Evanston, Ill., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman decries the ''bitterness of the fight for the Democratic nomination'' and then proceeds to contribute to the name-calling by comparing Obama supporters to members of a ''cult.'' I find that offensive.
 I am passionately in favor of a change from the current administration. Does that make me a member of a cult? I am passionately opposed to a Clinton presidency. Does that make me a member of a cult?
 Like thousands of other voters who lean Democratic, I don't pledge allegiance to the Democratic Party. I will vote for the candidate I think will best serve the nation. 
 I don't have to give Mr. Krugman or anyone else my strong assurances that I will support the Democratic nominee, and I don't have to apologize to Mr. Krugman or any Democratic Party apparatchik for passionately opposing Hillary Rodham Clinton. Robert Bonello
 Edina, Minn., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As a self-identified progressive, I often find useful insights and information in Paul Krugman's columns. Not so in ''Hate Springs Eternal.'' 
 Mr. Krugman paints supporters of Barack Obama with too broad a brush when he alleges that they ''want their hero or nobody,'' and therefore engage in venomous attacks on Mr. Obama's rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 I am an Obama supporter, as are many people I know. Every Obama supporter I know wants to see a Democrat next in the White House first, and Mr. Obama as that Democrat only second. The ''examples'' Mr. Krugman cites demonstrate that Clinton-bashing is popular sport, not that Obama supporters (rather than the media or isolated individuals) engage in it.
 To top it all off, Mr. Krugman compares Mr. Obama's ability to inspire and organize to George W. Bush's demonstrated penchant for conceit and self-indulgence in Operation Flight Suit. Who's perpetuating ''Nixonland'' now?
 Brian W. Stull
 Durham, N.C., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Cult of personality, indeed. Barack Obama has style, but no substance. He has been in national politics only a couple of years. And the media have given him a virtually free ride. 
 But we did ''likability'' and inexperience eight years ago with George W. Bush and look where that's gotten us. It is frightening how easily some of us are persuaded by hype, especially when we are confronting such serious problems as a nation and in the world.
 Hillary Rodham Clinton does have substance: knowledge, experience, intelligence, sensitivity, stamina. She has withstood attacks from all sides and come out whole. She is the only candidate in this race in whom I have complete faith and confidence to do the right thing. With all that is at stake, I can only hope that the media will start doing their job and that the American people will see the light this time around. D. Murphy
 Merrick, N.Y., Feb. 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I believe this is the first time I've ever disagreed with Paul Krugman. The source of vitriol is not to be found in the putative ''cult of personality'' among supporters of Barack Obama. The source is not to be found among supporters at all. One needs to look at the leaderships of the campaigns. 
 Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign keeps careening between sweetness and scorched-earth policies. Mrs. Clinton has created an impression that she will do anything and say anything to win, from sponsoring flag-preservation legislation to the bizarre racial innuendo by her campaign in South Carolina. (Does South Carolina bring out the worst in every campaign?) 
 The vitriol is not the result of a cult of personality in the Obama camp. The vitriol is a reaction to very real deficiencies in Mrs. Clinton's personality.
 Bill Morris 
 San Diego, Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Senator Barack Obama's campaign reminds me of a series of revival meetings. There's the charismatic speaker who uses emotional words to raise the audience to a fever pitch, followed by conversion to his ideas and the passing of the hat.
 Supporters who wrap themselves in these emotional promises find that it works for a while. But then it grows quiet, and looking around, the converts see that the revival tent has moved on and everyday life intervenes. 
 Where is the critical thinking here about how to achieve getting out of Iraq? To help the economy? To solve the health care crisis? There's just the emptiness of the emotional words, ringing hollow in the air. Sue Roupp 
 Evanston, Ill., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Can't Paul Krugman see that there is a growing number of Americans who do not want to relive the days of Clintonian testiness and right-wing vitriol? Former President Bill Clinton alerted many of us to the dangers of a Hillary Rodham Clinton victory by his arrogant behavior in the week before the South Carolina primary.
 The fact that many Democratic voters would simply stay home in November rather than vote for Hillary Clinton is not a sign of ''hate'' or ''venom.''
 Mr. Krugman brings up his preference for Mrs. Clinton's health care agenda, but why should we think she could achieve it after a bitter campaign, without enough Democratic senators to break a Republican filibuster and with the same old team back in charge?
 Bill Dawers 
 Savannah, Ga., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman, in his account of the strong emotions that the Clinton-Obama race has raised among progressives, doesn't mention one notable fact. 
 Many antiwar Democrats continue to view with suspicion Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's attitude toward the Iraq war. Her clarifications for her support of the various pro-war bills proposed by President Bush revolve around her criticisms of the execution of the war, not around the thinking that led us into the war in the first place.
 Progressives have found Senator Barack Obama's more specific denunciation of the whole mind-set that created the war much more helpful. I believe that it continues to be a leading explanation for why he is doing so much better against Mrs. Clinton than anyone originally predicted. Jon Landau 
 Purchase, N.Y., Feb. 11, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TRENDS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); WRITERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008



351 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: 'Venom'? 'Cult'? It's Campaign Fever

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Hate Springs Eternal,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Feb. 11):
 Mr. Krugman, a consistent critic of Barack Obama, did not produce a shred of evidence for his categorical statement that the ''venom'' being displayed in the Democratic campaign comes from Obama supporters, ''who want their hero or nobody.'' And it seems to perpetuate the same bizarre bitterness that he derides in his column.
 Even worse is his assertion that ''the Obama campaign seems dangerously close to becoming a cult of personality.'' I am surprised and saddened that a thoughtful public intellectual like Mr. Krugman would write such a careless and unfair statement at a moment of critical potential in national politics.
 Barack Obama is changing the way we think about race in America. His inclusive message is so refreshing that, in addition to strong backing from blacks, he is drawing unprecedented nationwide support from white voters. It is so upsetting that this remarkable and historic feat is belittled as a ''cult of personality.'' William Julius Wilson 
 Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 11, 2008
 The writer is a professor of sociology and social policy at Harvard University.
 To the Editor:
 I see nothing illogical that a close competition for the most important leadership role in the world would be extremely competitive. But venomous? We're not even close. Just this year, the Republicans (John McCain versus Mitt Romney) have been much more combative than Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 Perhaps Paul Krugman is closer to the point in recognizing that we are a nation focused on personality; much of what passes for public discourse is driven by celebrity, hyped-up conflict, and the trend for news and sports coverage to resemble each other. 
 Barack Obama's supporters certainly did not create this trend, nor can they be faulted for recognizing that character and inspiration are as important as ideas in picking a leader. This is not a result of some irrational spell, and implying that we're joining a cult of personality really misses the point about our recognizing the qualities our nation needs to effectively move forward to collectively meet our challenges. 
 Richard C. Hubbard
 Evanston, Ill., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman decries the ''bitterness of the fight for the Democratic nomination'' and then proceeds to contribute to the name-calling by comparing Obama supporters to members of a ''cult.'' I find that offensive.
 I am passionately in favor of a change from the current administration. Does that make me a member of a cult? I am passionately opposed to a Clinton presidency. Does that make me a member of a cult?
 Like thousands of other voters who lean Democratic, I don't pledge allegiance to the Democratic Party. I will vote for the candidate I think will best serve the nation. 
 I don't have to give Mr. Krugman or anyone else my strong assurances that I will support the Democratic nominee, and I don't have to apologize to Mr. Krugman or any Democratic Party apparatchik for passionately opposing Hillary Rodham Clinton. Robert Bonello
 Edina, Minn., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As a self-identified progressive, I often find useful insights and information in Paul Krugman's columns. Not so in ''Hate Springs Eternal.'' 
 Mr. Krugman paints supporters of Barack Obama with too broad a brush when he alleges that they ''want their hero or nobody,'' and therefore engage in venomous attacks on Mr. Obama's rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 I am an Obama supporter, as are many people I know. Every Obama supporter I know wants to see a Democrat next in the White House first, and Mr. Obama as that Democrat only second. The ''examples'' Mr. Krugman cites demonstrate that Clinton-bashing is popular sport, not that Obama supporters (rather than the media or isolated individuals) engage in it.
 To top it all off, Mr. Krugman compares Mr. Obama's ability to inspire and organize to George W. Bush's demonstrated penchant for conceit and self-indulgence in Operation Flight Suit. Who's perpetuating ''Nixonland'' now?
 Brian W. Stull
 Durham, N.C., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Cult of personality, indeed. Barack Obama has style, but no substance. He has been in national politics only a couple of years. And the media have given him a virtually free ride. 
 But we did ''likability'' and inexperience eight years ago with George W. Bush and look where that's gotten us. It is frightening how easily some of us are persuaded by hype, especially when we are confronting such serious problems as a nation and in the world.
 Hillary Rodham Clinton does have substance: knowledge, experience, intelligence, sensitivity, stamina. She has withstood attacks from all sides and come out whole. She is the only candidate in this race in whom I have complete faith and confidence to do the right thing. With all that is at stake, I can only hope that the media will start doing their job and that the American people will see the light this time around. D. Murphy
 Merrick, N.Y., Feb. 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I believe this is the first time I've ever disagreed with Paul Krugman. The source of vitriol is not to be found in the putative ''cult of personality'' among supporters of Barack Obama. The source is not to be found among supporters at all. One needs to look at the leaderships of the campaigns. 
 Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign keeps careening between sweetness and scorched-earth policies. Mrs. Clinton has created an impression that she will do anything and say anything to win, from sponsoring flag-preservation legislation to the bizarre racial innuendo by her campaign in South Carolina. (Does South Carolina bring out the worst in every campaign?) 
 The vitriol is not the result of a cult of personality in the Obama camp. The vitriol is a reaction to very real deficiencies in Mrs. Clinton's personality.
 Bill Morris 
 San Diego, Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Senator Barack Obama's campaign reminds me of a series of revival meetings. There's the charismatic speaker who uses emotional words to raise the audience to a fever pitch, followed by conversion to his ideas and the passing of the hat.
 Supporters who wrap themselves in these emotional promises find that it works for a while. But then it grows quiet, and looking around, the converts see that the revival tent has moved on and everyday life intervenes. 
 Where is the critical thinking here about how to achieve getting out of Iraq? To help the economy? To solve the health care crisis? There's just the emptiness of the emotional words, ringing hollow in the air. Sue Roupp 
 Evanston, Ill., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Can't Paul Krugman see that there is a growing number of Americans who do not want to relive the days of Clintonian testiness and right-wing vitriol? Former President Bill Clinton alerted many of us to the dangers of a Hillary Rodham Clinton victory by his arrogant behavior in the week before the South Carolina primary.
 The fact that many Democratic voters would simply stay home in November rather than vote for Hillary Clinton is not a sign of ''hate'' or ''venom.''
 Mr. Krugman brings up his preference for Mrs. Clinton's health care agenda, but why should we think she could achieve it after a bitter campaign, without enough Democratic senators to break a Republican filibuster and with the same old team back in charge?
 Bill Dawers 
 Savannah, Ga., Feb. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman, in his account of the strong emotions that the Clinton-Obama race has raised among progressives,doesn't mention one notable fact. 
 Many antiwar Democrats continue to view with suspicion Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's attitude toward the Iraq war. Her clarifications for her support of the various pro-war bills proposed by President Bush revolve around her criticisms of the execution of the war, not around the thinking that led us into the war in the first place.
 Progressives have found Senator Barack Obama's more specific denunciation of the whole mind-set that created the war much more helpful. I believe that it continues to be a leading explanation for why he is doing so much better against Mrs. Clinton than anyone originally predicted. Jon Landau 
 Purchase, N.Y., Feb. 11, 2008 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); TRENDS (88%); WRITERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



352 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Japan Growth Tops Forecasts

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japan's economy grew 0.9 percent in the last quarter of 2007, double the expected rate, the government said Thursday. 
 The quarterly growth was much stronger than the expected 0.4 percent rise, because of strong capital expenditure and exports, government data showed.
 The pace -- 3.7 percent on an annual basis -- compared with an annual growth rate of 0.6 percent in the United States in the October-December quarter.
 But economists said the growth might be the last hurrah for the economy before it turns down in 2008.
 ''The figures were strong, but it is unlikely the Bank of Japan will change the direction of its policy decisions,'' said Yasuhiro Onakado, chief economist at Daiwa SB Investments.
 The data showed exports driving Japan's economy, with net exports contributing 0.4 percentage point of the 0.9 percent growth. Exports grew for the 11th consecutive quarter.
 Japanese exports have so far held steady despite the slowdown in the American economy from late last year, with strong demand in Asia and other emerging economies.
 Corporate capital spending grew 2.9 percent.
 Personal consumption -- which accounts for more than half the economy -- grew 0.2 percent, the fifth consecutive quarter of growth for that category, led by demand for kerosene, electricity and air-conditioners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CONSUMPTION (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); DAIWA SB INVESTMENTS LTD (56%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



353 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: So, What Were We Writing About Again?

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES; Brian Stelter contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Facing his writing staff on Wednesday for the first time since the end of a 100-day strike, Shane Brennan, the co-executive producer of the CBS drama ''NCIS,'' asked a question that drew blank stares. ''Can anyone remember what we were working on three months ago?''
 Similar scenes played out in dozens of writers' conference rooms in New York and the Los Angeles area as the entertainment industry -- particularly the television business -- returned to work and sought to jump-start production. 
 The strike, which was formally called off Tuesday night by the Writers Guild of America, had halted production of 46 dramas and 17 comedies. 
 Mr. Brennan, whose show is watched by about 18 million viewers each week, instructed the nine writers seated around a large table to forget the various plots they had been working on before the strike. 
 ''All we're going to do is waste a day trying to remember it,'' he said. He added with a chuckle, ''While I sound like I know what I'm talking about, and that I have a plan, I really am making this up as I go.''
 For many writers, returning to work brought an emotion akin to what they remembered experiencing on their first day of high school. There was the giddy mood accompanying the start of something new and fresh -- and the pit of anxiety in their stomachs as they made the transition from mostly idle days to a daunting workload. And who was that guy in the corner? ''I almost didn't recognize you with that new beard,'' said Mr. Brennan to Greg Weidman, a production assistant.
 On the Warner Brothers lot, Stephanie Savage and Josh Schwartz, the co-creators of ''Gossip Girl,'' the teenage soap opera on CW network, likened reopening their offices to starting up a summer camp after the winter. ''Nobody had been cleaning and there was crime scene tape across the door,'' Ms. Savage said. Walking into her office, she said, ''And somehow I remembered my office being much nicer.''
 Mr. Schwartz, who will resume work on his other series, NBC's ''Chuck,'' in a few weeks, tried to cheer her up. ''There are still tumbleweeds blowing through half the office. It's going to take a little time to feel normal again.''
 Upstairs, in the ''Gossip Girl'' writers' room, Ms. Savage started a discussion with five writers about possible story lines for the show, which focuses on a group of privileged high school students in New York. One writer mentioned college visits as a possibility, while another talked about a new love triangle. But the writers, all good friends, kept breaking off to catch up on their own gossip. ''O.K., is anybody watching 'Celebrity Rehab' on VH1?'' asked Mr. Schwartz.
 In New York, Warren Leight, the show runner on ''Law & Order: Criminal Intent,'' was tucking into a delivered lunch along with a bustling office filled with writers, producers and researchers. The ''Criminal Intent'' crew had no scripts banked when work stopped on Nov. 5, so on Wednesday they were just beginning to map out story lines for the next five episodes.
 ''It's like putting a harness back on,'' he said. ''Actually, like putting 10 harnesses back on.''
 Chatter on both coasts centered on how relieved everyone was that the strike was finally over. ''As I drove into work today, I just thought, 'Thank God people are going to be able to come back to work and support their families and get on with their lives,' '' said Glenn Gordon Caron, the creator of ''Medium,'' the NBC drama starring Patricia Arquette as a mother with psychic powers.
 ''I'm really, really, really, really happy to be back,'' he said. ''Wait. I want to add another 'really' to that.''
 With the writers back, hustle and bustle returned to the studio lots in Los Angeles and Burbank. Teamsters who had refused to cross picket lines, snarling the transport of movie sets during the strike, smiled and waved at guards as they drove through the wrought-iron gates of Paramount Pictures. Studio cafeterias cooked more food. And casting directors, waiting around for new scripts to fill with guest stars, started working the phones. 
 The strike may officially be over, but the dust will not settle any time soon. In the coming days, writers must vote on the tentative contract that was reached between studio executives and guild leaders in recent weeks. 
 Although approval is expected -- union leaders characterized portions involving payment for the streaming of programs on the Web as a ''huge victory'' -- many guild members said they would retain raw feelings about the strike. 
 Many writers found themselves with no jobs waiting after the strike. Some shows, like ''Big Shots'' on ABC, were canceled during the walkout because of low ratings. Others, like ''Heroes'' on NBC, are experiencing delays, forcing some writers to wait several more months before production can resume. 
 On Wednesday, Los Angeles County officials were still working to tabulate what the strike had cost the local economy. About $3.2 billion was the latest guess from Jack Kyser, the chief economist for the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation.
 Mr. Kyser said writers and production workers had lost $772 million in wages. The strike also led to $981 million in lost revenue at businesses that serve the industry, Mr. Kyser said.
 People at the Smoke House, a restaurant across from the Warner Brothers lot, are happy the strike is over. The restaurant, whose red Naugahyde booths have been a favorite of stars like Judy Garland and George Clooney (who named his production company for it), experienced a revenue slide of 17 percent in recent months, according to Lee Spencer, the owner. Taking a particular toll was the lack of so-called wrap parties, informal gatherings after a production.
 ''A whole cast and crew might come over and drop $5,000 to $10,000 on somebody's black American Express,'' Mr. Lee said. ''It's the cream puff stuff like that we need to run a healthy business.'' Mr. Lee said he had to cut the hours of employees, including those of Irene and Phil, the lounge's singer-and-keyboardist duo. Mr. Lee, like many other business owners interviewed, said the reservation line started ringing with more frequency as soon as rumors started to spread that writers were getting close to a deal. ''Bam! Right back to normal,'' he said.
 Despite the outsize shadow it casts on Los Angeles, the entertainment industry employs only about 250,000 in the area, out of about 4.17 million total jobs, not counting farming. So the city hardly ground to a halt, despite the dire predictions of some studio executives and news media outlets. Many visitors to Los Angeles, along with a large swath of the local population, were untouched, Mr. Kyser said.
 Some establishments might actually see a reverse effect now that the strike has been resolved. At Raffles L'Ermitage, a luxury hotel that operates a popular industry watering hole called the Writers Bar, revenue climbed 20 percent during the strike, according to Jack Naderkhani, the general manager.
 ''Many in the industry considered the bar to be neutral territory,'' he said. Or, as a hotel spokeswoman wondered in an e-mail message, ''maybe there's some comfort in hanging out in a place with your name on it'' when you are out of work.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The comedian Jimmy Kimmel, right, welcomed his writing staff with egg creams. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1) Stephanie Savage and Josh Schwartz, the co-creators of ''Gossip Girl'' on CW network, have returned to work. ''Somehow I remembered my office being much nicer,'' Ms. Savage said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); WRITERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



354 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Surprising Retail Sales Lift the Gloom, for a Day

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Stocks rallied on Wednesday, sending the Dow Jones industrials up nearly 180 points, after the Commerce Department released some unexpected positive economic news: a climb in retail sales for January. 
 But economists, many of whom expect a recession, said the report was far from comforting. Consumers, they said, are spending more on necessities like food and gasoline, but cutting back on everything else. 
 Still, investors chose -- for a day, at least -- to focus on the positive. The Dow jumped more than 100 points at the opening bell and gained momentum throughout the day. The blue-chip index closed up 178.83 points to 12,552.24, a gain of almost 1.5 percent. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose about 1.4 percent, to 1,367.21. 
 ''Expectations were so low for those numbers,'' said Larry Adam, the chief investment strategist at Deutsche Bank. ''When they came out and were actually positive, that was a catalyst.''
 Financial forecasters had expected a decline in sales after a disappointing holiday season. Instead, consumers pushed up sales of gasoline, clothing and automobiles, all of which had declined in December. Over all, sales of food and retail items rose 0.3 percent last month, reversing a 0.4 percent drop in December. 
 Stock markets were also buoyed by the telecommunications and technology sectors, which posted the day's biggest gains. Tech companies rose on a better-than-expected earnings report from Applied Materials, the California-based manufacturer that supplies equipment for computer chips, solar panels and other electronics. 
 It was the biggest single-day gain for the Nasdaq composite index since November. It surged by 2.3 percent, or 53.89 points, to close at 2,373.93. 
 The S.& P. 500 finished up 18.35 points, at 1,367.21. 
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 19/32, to 98 3/32, as investors moved out of safer government paper. Its yield, which moves opposite the price, rose to 3.73 percent, from 3.66 percent..
 The retail sales report, while volatile from month to month, is considered a bellwether of consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of the nation's economic activity. Beneath the overall gains, economists saw signs of distress.
 ''The underlying details of the January retail sales report paint a picture of consumers cutting back on discretionary spending,'' wrote Richard F. Moody, chief economist at Mission Residential in Austin, Tex., in a research note. ''January's retail sales could well mark the high point for consumer spending during 2008's first quarter.''
 Department store sales fell by 1.1 percent and building materials dropped 1.7 percent, most likely a symptom of the stagnant housing market.
 Other signs point to a continued slowdown in spending. In a separate report on Wednesday, the Commerce Department said that overall business sales, including retail purchases, fell in December after several months of growth.
 Meanwhile, inventories at businesses continued to grow, rising 0.6 percent in December. Companies appear to be struggling to clear their shelves as consumers cut back.
 ''Household spending is starting to shut down,'' wrote Bernard Baumohl of the Economic Outlook Group in Princeton, N.J. ''Shoppers are staying away from stores. A consumer-led recession may now be under way.''
 Investors are hoping to gain more clarity on Thursday, when Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, will speak to members of Congress about the state of the economy.
 Thursday's market performance will probably hinge on Mr. Bernanke's remarks. Mr. Adam, of Deutsche Bank, said that the rally on Wednesday did not offer much of a window into the future. 
 ''I wouldn't get overly optimistic if you see a couple days' rally,'' he said, ''and I wouldn't get overly concerned if you see a couple days' sell-off.''
 Following are the results of Wednesday's auction of three-month cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers in the Manhattan Mall last week. While data showed spending rose in January, other reports point to a continued slowdown as consumers focus on basic needs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE/GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets)
RETAIL SALES (Source: Commerce Department)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); RETAIL SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RECESSION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); BOND MARKETS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (60%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



355 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Belo Swings to a Loss on Write-Downs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: DALLAS 

 BODY:
The Belo Corporation, now a broadcast company after spinning off four newspapers, said on Wednesday that it swung to a fourth-quarter loss because of write-downs, breakup costs and weak advertising sales. 
 Even without the write-downs, the company's results fell short of Wall Street forecasts.
 Belo, based in Dallas, said it lost $333.4 million, or $3.26 a share, in the last three months of 2007. That was in contrast to a profit of $51.3 million, or 50 cents, a year earlier.
 Belo wrote down $367 million in the value of some newspaper and television businesses, which it disclosed last month. Excluding that item, Belo would have earned 32 cents a share, below the 37 cents expected by analysts who were polled by Thomson Financial.
 Fourth-quarter revenue fell 6.8 percent, to $406.7 million.
 Last week, Belo completed the deal to spin off its four newspapers, including The Dallas Morning News, as a new publicly traded company named the A. H. Belo Corporation.
 Belo, which still owns 20 television stations, said broadcast advertising revenue in the first quarter would lag behind early 2007 results by a low-single-digit percentage. But for the full year, revenue will rise by mid- to high single digits depending on the strength of the economy and political advertising, Belo said.
 Shares of Belo rose 19 cents, to $13.64. Shares of A. H. Belo rose 19 cents, to $13.79.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

COMPANY: BELO CORP (96%); A H BELO CORP (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

TICKER: BLC (NYSE) (96%); AHC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



356 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: A Festival With Plenty of This, That and the Other

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
Boundaries of geography, genre and taste are tested and occasionally trampled in the ninth edition of Film Comment Selects, the annual cinema roundup from the editors of Film Comment magazine, which runs through Feb. 28 at the Walter Reade Theater. Such border crossings are common inside the pages of Film Comment, a citadel of intellectually committed, aesthetically adventurous, sometimes prickly, sometimes maddening, sometimes baffling, if invariably lively and passionate cinephilia that is published bimonthly by the Film Society of Lincoln Center. You may want to throw the magazine against the wall on occasion, but it remains essential reading. 
 In the past the program has come across as an alternative or even an answer to the New York Film Festival, the respected, very adult and at times too-safe autumn showcase that is the Film Society's main event. It has served as a kind of advance guard for the festival, having given pride of place to Carlos Reygadas, (whose ''Battle of Heaven'' was shown in the 2006 edition), and Apichatpong Weerasethakul (''Blissfully Yours'' in 2003) before either was deemed good enough to play the big time. And, on occasion, as it does this year with Jacques Rivette's elegantly directed film about an idiosyncratic romance, ''The Duchess of Langeais,'' which didn't make the cut for the 2007 festival, the program also functions as a corrective.
 I'll have more to say about ''The Duchess of Langeais,'' which has been making the festival rounds since its premiere at the 2007 Berlin International Film Festival, when it opens in New York on Feb. 22. Other selections headed to a theater soon include the yuk-yuk zombie amusement ''George A. Romero's Diary of the Dead,'' which opens on Friday; Ramin Bahrani's slice of Queens neorealism, ''Chop Shop'' (Feb. 27), the follow-up to his widely praised ''Man Push Cart''; and Philippe Garrel's 1991 memento mori ''I Don't Hear the Guitar Anymore'' (March 7), the first title from a new micro-distributor, the Film Desk, which will be releasing and sometimes rereleasing older foreign work both theatrically and on DVD.
 The program includes several of the more contentious selections from the 2007 Cannes Film Festival, including Olivier Assayas's ''Boarding Gate,'' starring a mesmerizing Asia Argento as a woman with a taste for rough trade (a k a Michael Madsen) and a thing for crossing borders (sexual, ethical, geographic). The film, which opens on March 31, sharply divided critics at Cannes, some of whom were affronted by its pulpy particulars (Variety dismissed it as sleazy, as if that were a bad thing) and overly distracted by its trajectory from freaky head-and-sex trips in France to chaotic intrigue in Hong Kong. Ms. Argento's commitment to this material feels more genuine than Mr. Assayas's, but his extraordinarily beautiful and somewhat ethereal visual style works in fascinating counterpoint to her lowdown and dirty vibe. 
 Two other grievously under-loved Cannes entries that cross more than a few lines are Ulrich Seidl's ''Import Export,'' a tough, sometimes tough-to-take portrait of modern Europe and its discontents, and Fatih Akin's somewhat similarly schematic and bifurcated drama ''The Edge of Heaven.'' Although different in tone and temperament, both films offer bracing looks at how marginalized, often imperiled bodies navigate a continent where the borders seem at once increasingly porous and increasingly demarcated by profound economic, ethnic and religious differences. Mr. Seidl's immaculate visual style (here ably assisted by the great cinematographer Ed Lachman), which somehow manages to create order out of even the most squalid mess, could not be more different from that of the considerably more freewheeling Mr. Akin. One filmmaker runs cold, the other hot, but both run exceptionally well.
 As they have in the past, the editors of Film Comment have opted for a slate that mixes the high and the low, the raw and the overcooked. Wilson Yip's no-frills, fewer-thrills Hong Kong action flick ''Flash Point'' features some choice fight scenes, the best of which create blurs of leg locks, head bangs, camera moves and edits, but otherwise barely registers. The programmers' commitment to genre cinema is certainly vital, important and reflects the Film Comment ethos, but I wish some of this year's shocks were less calculating and cheap. The worse offender in this regard is ''Inside,'' a particularly juvenile example of the new French gore from Julien Maury and Alexandre Bustillo that sloshes the red around with glee.
 There's more, including new (''Searchers 2.0'') and old (''Walker'') work from Alex Cox; a mini tribute to Robert Fleischer (''10 Rillington Place,''''Mandingo''); and a miscellany of oddball causes, including Damon Packard (''Reflections of Evil'') and Trent Harris (''Rubin and Ed''). I can't vouch for all of these selections, though I urge you to catch -- whether now or when it opens later this year -- Jacques Nolot's ''Before I Forget,'' a fierce, often brutal, often touching exploration of sex, love and the humiliations of the body. A screen actor turned director, Mr. Nolot delivers a searing performance as a 60-year-old hustler turned writer (''I used to go cruising with Roland Barthes'') that will haunt you in ways that no horror-minded punk kid can. 
 Film Comment Selects runs Thursday through Feb. 28 at the Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 496-3809; filmlinc.com. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A film column on Thursday about the Film Comment Selects series, at the Walter Reade Theater, misstated the given name of the director whose films ''10 Rillington Place'' and ''Mandingo'' will be shown. He was Richard Fleischer, not Robert.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Michael Madsen and Asia Argento in ''Boarding Gate.'' Above, a scene from Ulrich Seidl's ''Import Export.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAGNOLIA PICTURES
 MOVIENET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); BORDER CONTROL (79%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



357 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING GLOBAL TRADE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Rules Against China's Auto Parts Tariffs

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The United States has won a preliminary ruling in a World Trade Organization case over Chinese tax policies that restrict imports of auto parts, a United States trade official said. The final report in the case is expected to be made public this year. The United States and the European Union filed the case in March 2006 and were later joined by Canada. They complained that China's tax treatment of auto imports discouraged Chinese automobile manufacturers from using them. China's commitments to the trade organization require it to set a lower tariff on imported auto parts than it does on finished vehicles, but it had been charging the same tariffs, the United States trade representative's office said at the time it filed the case. Once a final report is issued, China can appeal the decision. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); TAX LAW (88%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



358 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2040 words

HEADLINE: Home & Garden Calendar

 BODY:
On Design 
 Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, 2 East 91st Street; (212) 849-8400.
 ''Campana Brothers Select: Works from the Permanent Collection'' is the fifth in a series of exhibitions where designers act as guest curators to choose objects for display. Fernando and Humberto Campana, Brazilians who design furniture and decorative objects, have chosen more than 30 objects dating from the 16th to the 20th centuries for their exhibition, including furniture, wallpapers, jewelry and book illustrations. The exhibition will run from Feb. 15 through Sept. 28. 
 The Campanas will take part in a discussion about their work on Feb. 15 at 6:30 p.m. Reservations are required, by calling (212) 849-8380 or online at cooperhewitt.org. Tickets are $10; members and students, $5.
 ''Multiple Choice: From Sample to Product,'' an exhibition of sample books for wallpaper, textiles, ribbons and lace, continues through April 6. The books, from the 18th through the 20th centuries, offer insights into consumer tastes, and serve as an historical record of design. 
 Hours: Monday through Thursday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Friday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 6 p.m. Admission is $15; students and those 62 and older, $10; children under 12, free.
 Art Show Benefit
 Seventh Regiment Armory, 643 Park Avenue (66th Street); (212) 472-0590 (active only during show dates).
 An opening night preview party for the 20th annual Art Show, sponsored by the Art Dealers Association of America, will be held on Feb. 20. The preview, which will take place from 5:30 to 9:30 p.m., will benefit Henry Street Settlement. Tickets for admission at 5:30 p.m. are $500, $1000 or $2000; for admission at 6:30 p.m., $300; for admission at 7:30 p.m., $150. For tickets, contact Henry Street at (212) 766-9200, ext. 248, or henrystreet.org.
 The art show, with paintings, sculpture, photographs and prints from 70 dealers, will take place on Feb. 21 through 23 from noon to 8 p.m., and Feb. 24 and 25 from noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $20. More information: artdealers.org.
 Stitchery
 Museum of Arts & Design, 40 West 53rd Street; (212) 956-3535.
 ''Pricked: Extreme Embroidery,'' 60 contemporary artworks, some made from unusual materials like found gloves, will continue through April 27. The objects include works by Nava Lubelski, consisting of embroidered designs sewn into found pieces of stained linen; text and images selected from daily newspapers and television programs by Tilleke Schwarz, a Dutch artist; and a video of a digital embroidery machine stitching a map of the United States, Mexico and the planned borderline wall in red thread, by Ana de la Cueva. 
 Coming programs at the museum include a talk by Sonya Clark on Feb. 21 at 6:30 p.m. Ms. Clark has a piece in ''Extreme Embroidery,'' and she will discuss the use of materials like hair, combs and beads in her artwork, which frequently addresses political and social issues. 
 Jennifer Scanlan, an associate curator at the museum, will look at the history of vessels used for imbibing spirits, on Feb. 29 at 6:30 p.m., in a lecture related to ''Cheers! A Mad Collection of Goblets,'' which is on display through April 27. The talk will be followed by a wine tasting. 
 Both programs are free with museum admission. 
 Hours: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Thursdays). Admission: $9; students and those 65 and older, $7; children 12 and under, free. Information: madmuseum.org.
 Scandinavian Design
 Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue (37th Street); (212) 879-9779. 
 Judith Gura, a professor at the New York School of Interior Design and the author of ''Sourcebook of Scandinavian Furniture: Designs for the 21st Century'' (W.W. Norton, 2007), will discuss contemporary Scandinavian designers and postwar design, in a talk on Feb. 19 at 6:30 p.m. Admission: $10; members of the American-Scandinavian Foundation, $8. Reservations are suggested: (212) 847-9740. More information: scandinaviahouse.org.
 New York: Images and Preservation
 Museum of the City of New York, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street; (212) 534-1672. 
 The museum is presenting two exhibitions featuring images of New York City by Rudy Burckhardt (1914 to 1999), a photographer, filmmaker and painter, and by his wife, Yvonne Jacquette, a painter. The first, ''Street Dance: The New York Photographs of Rudy Burckhardt,'' is an exhibition of everyday scenes like skyscrapers, storefronts and New Yorkers on the sidewalks and subways (through April 13). There are 90 black and white photographs in ''Street Dance,'' mostly taken over a 50-year period starting in the 1930s. ''Under New York Skies: Nocturnes by Yvonne Jacquette'' is a series of 30 paintings and pastels depicting the city at night from an aerial vantage point (through May 4). ''Picturing New York: The Art of Yvonne Jacquette and Rudy Burckhardt,'' a publication to be released for the exhibitions, looks at the couple's work and their influence on the art scene in New York beginning in the 1930s. 
 Hours: Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: $9; students and those 62 and older, $5; families, $20; children 12 and younger, free. More information: mcny.org.
 The museum and the New York Preservation Archive Project will offer ''Preserving New York -- Then and Now,'' a daylong symposium at the museum, on Feb. 23, from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Among the presentations will be a keynote address by Anthony C. Wood, the author of ''Preserving New York: Winning the Right to Protect a City's Landmarks'' (Routledge, 2007); a discussion about preservation and progress between the architect Robert A.M. Stern, the dean of the Yale School of Architecture, and Kenneth T. Jackson, the Jacques Barzun Professor of History and the Social Sciences at Columbia University; and panel discussions about the civic sector and the way preservation is portrayed in the media. Symposium fee: $30; members, $25. Reservations required: at the museum's Web site or by calling (212) 534-1672, ext. 3395. More information: nypap.org. 
 Textile Arts
 Textile Museum, 2320 S Street NW, Washington; (202) 667-0441.
 ''The Finishing Touch: Accessories From the Bolivian Highlands,'' a collection of belts, bags and garments, will be on display from Feb. 15 through Sept. 18. The elaborately decorated items were woven and knitted from handspun yarns in the early part of the 20th century. Hours: Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m. Suggested donation: $5. Information: textilemuseum.org.
 A Singular Designer
 Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology, Seventh Avenue at 27th Street; (212) 217-4558. 
 ''Madame Gres: Sphinx of Fashion,'' an exhibition of 67 garments made by Madame Alix Gres, the Parisian designer, will be at the museum through April 19. Madame Gres was influential, and private in her work and personal life. She was known for the so-called ''goddess gown,'' a classically inspired pleated silk gown; for designing clothing inspired by ethnic garments like the sari, which is draped rather than sewn; and for the use of materials like lightweight taffeta or heavy wools to create a three-dimensional sculptural look for her coats and dresses. 
 ''Exoticism,'' an exhibition exploring the influence of non-Western styles, textiles, imagery and construction on fashion, continues through May 7. 
 Hours: Tuesday through Friday, noon to 8 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free. Information: fitnyc.edu/museum.
 A Map in Decay and Renewal
 Queens Museum of Art, New York City Building, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park; (718) 592-9700. 
 Two exhibitions will take a look at the New York StatePavilion designed by Philip Johnson for the 1964 World's Fair. The open-air site included a depiction of New York State in the form of a Texaco road map measuring 130 feet by 166 feet, which was embedded in the terrazzo floor. 
 ''Back on the Map: Revisiting the New York State Pavilion at the 1964-65 World's Fair,'' which continues through May 4, looks at the pavilion and efforts to restore parts of the map. The exhibition includes photographs of the pavilion as it was in 1964 and the conservation efforts, which began in 2006. Visitors will be able to watch conservators at work. 
 ''Anthony Auerbach, Empire State Pavilion,'' also through May 4, is an installation of the map as it looked in early 2006. Mr. Auerbach documented the decaying floor, which had plants pushing up through the map, through a series of 2,500 aerial photographs. 
 ''New York States of Mind'' continues through March 23. The exhibition explores the work of 31 artists from different backgrounds, and how their work was influenced by New York City. Exhibited works include ''African-American Flag'' (1990) by David Hammons; ''Times Square Star Gazing'' (2005), a photo collage by Hans Haacke; and ''Louis XVI, the Sun King'' (2006), a cast-marble statue by Kehinde Wiley.
 Open Wednesday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, noon to 5 p.m. Admission is $5; students and those 62 and older, $2.50; members and children under 5, free. Information: www.queensmuseum.org.
 A Prince's Garden
 Gallery of the New York School of Interior Design, 161 East 69th Street; (212) 472-1500.
 ''Watercolors from the Highgrove Florilegium,'' 75 watercolors by 48 artists of plants, fruits and vegetables grown at Highgrove, a property owned by Prince Charles, will be on display through April 12. Hours: Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free. Information: nysid.edu.
 The exhibition will include a lecture series, which will continue on Feb. 20 with Martin Lane Fox, a landscape architect. The other speakers will be Patrick Bowe, a horticulture historian, who will speak on Roman gardens on March 12; and David Cadman, an urban land economist, who will discuss green design and sustainability on April 9. Reservations are required; all lectures at 6 p.m. Fee, each lecture, $35.
 A Culture of Carving
 American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street; (212) 265-1040. 
 ''Gilded Lions and Jeweled Horses: The Synagogue to the Carousel,'' an exhibition about the influence of Jewish woodcarvers from Eastern Europe on American folk art, will continue through March 23. Hours: Tuesday through Sunday, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (Fridays until 7:30 p.m.). Admission: $9; students and those 62 and older, $7; children under 12, free. Information: folkartmuseum.org and gildedlions.org.
 Seaside History 
 Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway at Washington Avenue; (718) 638-5000.
 ''Goodbye Coney Island,'' a collection of photographs from the 1870s to the present, continues through April 6 in the Visible Storage Study Center. 
 Hours: Wednesday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. ( First Saturday of every month, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.). Suggested contribution: adults, $8; students and those 62 and older, $4; children under 12, free. Information: brooklynmuseum.org.
 Playful Inspirations
 New England Quilt Museum, 18 Shattuck Street off Market Street, Lowell, Mass.; (978) 452-4207. 
 ''Puzzled and Board,'' an exhibition of quilts inspired by games and puzzles, will continue through March 29. Hours: Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on the fourth Friday of every month). Admission: $5; $4 for students and those 60 and older. Information: nequiltmuseum.org.
 Design in Philadelphia
 Ruth and Raymond G. Perelman Building of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Fairmount and Pennsylvania Avenues, Philadelphia; (215) 763-8100. 
 ''Designing Modern: 1920 to the Present,'' an chronological look at the museum's collection of modern and contemporary decorative art, continues through April 30. 
 Among the other exhibitions in the Perelman building, which is new, are fashions by three Philadelphia designers, James Galanos, Gustave Tassell and Ralph Rucci (through March 9); and sculpture by, among others, Picasso, Anselm Kiefer, Sol LeWitt, Mark di Suvero and Richard Long (through May 25). 
 Hours: Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. (main building, Friday evenings until 8:45 p.m.). Admission: $14; those 62 and older, $12; students, $10; age 12 and younger, free. (Sundays, pay what you wish.) Information: philamuseum.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ART DEALERS (86%); HISTORY (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); ART COLLECTING (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); TEXTILES (72%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (64%); SPONSORSHIP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (91%); MEXICO (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



359 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: What the Next President Will Inherit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''When Reality Bites,'' by David Brooks (column, Feb. 12):
 Mr. Brooks argues that if a Democrat is elected president in November, he or she will face a nightmarish set of problems: an Iraq war with no good options for resolution, a faltering economy and a huge budget deficit that will preclude government spending to relieve economic distress or to address the urgent needs of returning soldiers, when they finally do come home. 
 Quite a comment on the administration of George W. Bush, whose credentials for worst president in United States history seem to grow with every passing day. 
 Larry Deblinger Nyack, N.Y., Feb. 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks correctly lists the fearsome choices facing either Democrat if he or she is elected. For Senator John McCain, if he is elected, there will be no choices. His campaign promises require him to continue to pretend that permanent tax cuts and permanent war are sustainable, and to hope that the house of cards that President Bush built doesn't collapse before he leaves office. 
 Bill Mullin Minneapolis, Feb. 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks's forecast of Democratic policy conflict rests on a foundation of Republican assumptions. Iraq would of course remain controversial, but a solid two-thirds of Americans oppose the war despite whatever the surge may have accomplished. 
 Making a ''terrible decision'' with the support of the American people is likely to work out better in the long run than lying to them and then ignoring them. 
 And the economy would of course remain a problem, but the Iraq hawks consistently fail to acknowledge that $100 billion a year squandered in Iraq has something to do with the exploding deficit, as the supply-siders fail to acknowledge that the deficit explodes every time they come to power.
 What the Democrats know but will not say -- what no presidential candidate will say until the name of Walter Mondale fades from memory -- is that taxes will have to go up. Yes, there will be screaming, but the fact is that the Clinton taxes didn't slow the economy, and the Bush tax cuts didn't help it. 
 It's time for Americans to grow up and learn that they get the government they pay for. 
 David Berman New York, Feb. 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks predicts that in withdrawing from Iraq ''a Democratic president with few military credentials would confront outraged and highly photogenic colonels screaming betrayal.'' The question for Mr. Brooks and others, though, is whether public outrage from colonels and other midlevel officers would be appropriate. 
 Our highest military officers certainly have a duty and a responsibility to weigh in on major national security issues facing the country. But just as it would have been inappropriate for colonels and other midlevel officers to publicly oppose the political decisions of a Republican president with few military credentials, it will be inappropriate for these officers to publicly oppose the political decisions of a Democratic president. 
 Howard Goldstein Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 12, 2008
 The writer served as an officer in the United States Navy from 1999 to 2006.
 To the Editor:
 No matter which Democratic candidate wins the election, there are still key issues besides the desire to leave Iraq that unite Democrats (and all Americans). 
 Two vital needs for our nation now are to restore constitutional rights that have been eroded, checks and balances among the three branches of government and privacy rights of citizens; and to ensure the responsibility of the government to govern wisely and well in providing for common needs of our citizens.
 During a Democratic administration, the country must stay united to correct the excesses of a party in power that seemed to rule by politics for power and profit for a few. If we expect to be a self-governing people, we need to demand selfless governance by those we elect. 
 Surely Democrats (and our fellow Americans) can remember for longer than an election season what the alternative was. 
 Patricia West Boulder, Colo., Feb. 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Although the vast majority of Americans are against the war in Iraq, David Brooks is correct that many may have second thoughts should we withdraw totally. The military, of course, wants to continue. Senator John McCain wants to ''win.'' 
 We lost our focus when we went into Iraq. We assumed that the war in Afghanistan was going so well that it would be over without more American troops. How about refocusing on Afghanistan, where we do have a better chance of winning a war of legitimacy with world backing? Why not redeploy most of our forces to an area where they will make a difference and obviate the claim that withdrawal from Iraq is ''surrender''? 
 Claude P. Fromm Boca Raton, Fla., Feb. 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks raises many good points about the hard choices that a Democratic president will face on Inauguration Day. But a Republican president will face the very same choices and the very same American citizenry. 
 And let's not forget who got us where we are today. 
 Daniel Heyman Hartsdale, N.Y., Feb. 12, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WESLEY BEDROSIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX LAW (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



360 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Firm Plans to Shut A Loan Unit In Britain

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley said on Wednesday that it would close its British business that issues home loans and significantly scale back its mortgage business in the United States, cutting 1,000 jobs in the process. 
 Morgan Stanley said it would continue to service loans in the United States through its Saxon Mortgage Services units. It will also offer residential mortgages to brokerage clients through the Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation.
 Hundreds of lenders have scaled back operations as the worst American housing market in 26 years slows economic growth.
 Banks and brokerage firms have eliminated more than 25,000 jobs in the last six months as they racked up $150 billion of write-downs and credit losses tied to mortgage securities. Morgan Stanley announced last month that it was cutting 1,000 jobs in operations, technology and other areas because of the market downturn.
 A spokesman for Morgan Stanley was unable to provide a breakdown on how many jobs would be lost in the United States and Britain. Of the approximately 48,000 employees Morgan Stanley had as of last November, it could not be determined how many were employed in the residential mortgage business.
 In December, Morgan Stanley took a $9.4 billion write-down because of losses on mortgage-related securities -- and quickly raised $5 billion from Chinese investors to rebuild its capital base. Zoe Cruz, the company's co-president, who was considered to be a potential successor to the chief executive, John J. Mack, was forced out of her job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (55%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: ZOE CRUZ (79%); JOHN J MACK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



361 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: At Home in the World

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
As soon as Jeffrey R. Immelt, General Electric's chairman, became chief executive in 2001, his foreign-based managers began pressing him to move some major operations overseas. 
 ''They'd say, 'G.E. will never be really global until you do,' '' Mr. Immelt recalled. For years, his reaction was, ''That's really stupid; no need to do that.'' 
 But his managers kept up the pressure, and Mr. Immelt figured that ''with so much smoke, there must be a fire.'' 
 So in 2004, he moved G.E. Healthcare from Wisconsin to outside London, the home of Amersham, a company G.E. had just bought. 
 Clearly, he liked the results. G.E. now has research centers in Munich, Shanghai and Bangalore, India. The unit that sells equipment and services to oil and gas companies is based in Florence, Italy. 
 And this month, G.E. promoted an American executive, William H. Cary, to lead G.E. Money. The company also said that it would move the group's headquarters to London from Stamford, Conn., to be closer to customers in Europe and Asia. 
 The European operations are helping G.E. rebuild its image in Europe, where hard feelings still linger from G.E.'s aborted effort to acquire Honeywell in 2001. The centers in Asia help build new relationships with governments of developing countries, both as showcases for technology and as sources for jobs.
 Sales of engines, turbines and other so-called infrastructure items are not only the biggest contributors to G.E.'s profits these days, but also the greatest source of its growth.
 ''Everyone talks about outsourcing manufacturing, but it is the high-level R.& D. jobs that are the great marketing tools,'' Mr. Immelt said. ''And I'm a salesman, remember. I know that you don't get to sell things for long unless you are part of the culture into which you are selling.''
 Much is at stake. Last year, for the first time, G.E.'s overseas revenue surpassed domestic sales. But more important, overseas sales are growing even though the slowing American economy is damping sales back home. 
 That is true of many companies, of course. But for G.E., the result has been more than a shifting of revenue. The company's once-rigid hierarchy and vaunted training programs are going through a huge overhaul, as American executives learn to treat foreign-born colleagues as equals, not subordinates. ''They are managing their worldwide organization as a network, not a centralized hub with foreign appendages,'' said Christopher A. Bartlett, a professor at the Harvard Business School who has written a case study on G.E.
 This year, in a highly symbolic gesture, G.E. Transportation, which is based in Erie, Pa., moved its annual sales meeting to Sorrento, Italy, from Florida. ''It was time the Americans learned what it's like to deal with jet lag,'' said John Dineen, who leads the unit.
 In a sense, G.E. is returning to its past. When John F. Welch Jr. became its chief in 1981, G.E. was organized geographically, with powerful country heads -- usually American-born -- running different regions. He reorganized the company around businesses. Now, Mr. Immelt is creating a hybrid of the two approaches.
 ''Jeff recognizes that the center of gravity is shifting,'' said Noel M. Tichy, a management professor at the University of Michigan who has written about G.E. 
 That is true outside G.E. as well.
 International Business Machines, which now derives 65 percent of its revenue from overseas, operates most of its software and services business from India. It has moved its global procurement center, as well as most of its voice recognition technology work, to China.
 Last year, for the first time, I.B.M. brought 23 Chinese employees to its headquarters in Armonk, N.Y., for nearly two weeks to learn about I.B.M.'s ethics and culture. In September, the same 23 workers went through training in Shanghai, to learn how to apply those principles. I.B.M. also has begun to send American executives to training sessions in Asia, both to teach and to learn. 
 ''The people in Armonk can't just say, 'grow earnings 30 percent,' '' said Denis Fred Simon, provost of the Neil D. Levin Graduate Institute of International Relations and Commerce, which helped I.B.M. devise the new training program. ''They have to understand what it means to operate on the ground in China.''
 But G.E.'s size -- $173 billion in revenue last year -- and product diversity make the task of imparting such understanding especially formidable. 
 So G.E.'s American managers now travel overseas for management training almost as often as European executives come to G.E.'s management center in Crotonville, N.Y. 
 Today, G.E. researchers in Shanghai or Bangalore have the kind of autonomy that used to exist only in Niskayuna, N.Y., where the G.E. Global Research Center long reigned supreme. 
 Mr. Immelt is thinking about replicating Crotonville in China, and building a residential lodge at the Munich research center, similar to the one in Niskayuna. 
 And foreign accents are heard at higher rungs of the management ladder. G.E.'s country managers, who act as liaisons between G.E. businesses and customers in their territories, increasingly hail from the regions they manage and are growing in internal stature as G.E.'s overseas sales continue to soar. 
 ''In places like China, governments are big customers, and it's the country heads who have the relationships with the governments,'' said Deane M. Dray, the G.E. analyst at Goldman Sachs. 
 Most business heads are still based in the United States. And because they control the bottom lines of their respective units, they still have the most clout. 
 But foreign-born nationals are rising through the businesses. The executive roster at G.E. Transportation includes Pierre Comte, a Frenchman who runs Global Signaling from Paris, and Rafael Santana, a Brazilian who manages G.E. Transportation-Americas from Brazil. 
 Evren Eryurek, manager of global rail operations, works from Florida, but he is Turkish. Mr. Dineen is American, as is Tim Schweikert, president of G.E. Transportation China. But their successors, Mr. Dineen suggested, ''might well be foreign-born.'' 
 Mr. Immelt, who never did a foreign stint himself, can easily picture that. He would not name them, but he said he could think of at least three foreign-born nationals who could succeed him when he retires in a decade or so. 
 ''The business C.E.O.'s have to be socially and politically astute and able to anticipate political risk,'' Mr. Immelt said. ''There are more people competing for these top jobs, but a lot fewer who qualify for them.''
 Management experts say that may soon change. ''Students coming out of the Indian Institute of Technology are every bit as talented as those who study in London or New York,'' said Robert N. Bontempo, a professor of executive education at the Columbia Business School. ''And the globalization of big companies has enabled them to get meaningful work experience without leaving their countries.''
 The transition has been bumpy for American employees. They no longer have first crack at plum assignments and promotions. And they no longer get to lord it over foreign colleagues. 
 ''Sometimes you need dogmatic leadership,'' Mr. Immelt said. ''You need to say, 'I don't care if you like this, it's happening.' ''
 Recalcitrant executives are coming around. ''It is easy to fly anywhere from London, and I'm not out of phase with anyone's time zone,'' said Joseph M. Hogan, chief executive of G.E. Healthcare. ''I call China in the morning, Europe midafternoon, then the U.S. last.''
 There are more tangible results as well. Mark Little, who runs the Niskayuna research center, noted that the Shanghai lab came up with a new desalination method, and researchers in India devised a less-expensive electrocardiogram.
 Mr. Hogan points to a low-cost CT scanner developed in China. American versions use a hydraulic pedal to move the table up and down; in China, the table is stationary, and patients simply use a step stool. ''American engineers would have tried to somehow dumb down the tables we were already using,'' he said. 
 Mr. Comte pushed G.E. Transportation to make electric locomotives and signaling devices, while executives in China persuaded the company to put cabs at both ends so the locomotive can switch directions without turning around.
 ''As outsiders, they can focus on what we weren't doing, not on what we'd done well for 100 years,'' Mr. Dineen said. 
 G.E.'s goal is to create a generation of foreign-born insiders. It has been holding what Susan P. Peters, who leads executive development at G.E., calls ''talent forums'' at G.E. businesses in the Middle East, Asia and Europe, at which corporate human resources people evaluate high-potential people in their 30s, and suggest development plans. 
 John F. Lynch, G.E.'s senior vice president for human resources -- and a Scotsman by birth -- said that the number of G.E. managers on foreign assignments has long hovered around 1,800 a year. But until a few years ago, probably 80 percent were Americans doing overseas stints. 
 Today, a similarly disproportionate number are foreign nationals working outside their home countries, many of whom are en route to becoming country managers. ''Someday, country manager jobs will be culture-blind, and an American can again run Japan or a Scotsman can run India,'' he said. ''But it will be 25 years before that happens.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief, has led a global strategy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Jessie Yang works at a GE Healthcare center in Shanghai. Executives say such research centers also serve as marketing tools. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G.E.)
 Joseph Hogan of GE Healthcare, visiting New York, says his unit's headquarters near London allow for easy flights anywhere. (PHOTOGRPAH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) ILLUSTRATION: (ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (88%); OUTSOURCING (77%); CASE STUDIES (74%); SALES & SELLING (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); ERIE, PA, USA (65%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (90%); ASIA (90%); INDIA (79%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



362 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Tribune Will Cut Hundreds of Jobs as Businesses Weaken

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Employees at the Tribune Company were notified Wednesday that hundreds of jobs would be cut at The Chicago Tribune, The Los Angeles Times and other publications -- the first cutbacks since the investor Samuel Zell took the company private last year. 
 In separate memos, the Tribune publisher Scott C. Smith said 100 jobs would be cut, and his counterpart at The Times, David D. Hiller, said 100 to 150 jobs would be eliminated.
 Both newspapers reported a total of 400 to 500 cuts companywide, focusing on corporate staff and the company's newspapers, including Newsday in New York, The Orlando Sentinel, The Baltimore Sun and The Hartford Courant.
 A spokesman for the Tribune Company, Gary Weitman, declined to comment on that figure.
 Job cuts in Chicago are expected to come from The Tribune, as well as Hoy in Chicago, RedEye, Chicago Magazine and online products like ChicagoTribune.com, according to a Chicago Tribune media group spokesman, Michael Dizon. The group has about 3,000 employees.
 He said it was unclear just how many cuts would come from simply not filling current openings, layoffs or from voluntary or involuntary severance packages. In Los Angeles, Mr. Hiller said the cuts would be made in much the same way: attrition, voluntary buyouts and layoffs. 
 Both publishers' memos cited economic problems at the papers, with Mr. Smith, for example, telling employees that total revenue from the Chicago media group was down 5 percent in January and that ''ad revenue was down double digits, a continuation of the trend late last year.''
 He also said cash flow had dropped more than the 8 percent it fell in 2007. 
 And Mr. Hiller said the economic picture was ''well worse than was forecast'' late last year, when Mr. Zell took the company private in an $8.2 billion buyout.
 Mr. Zell, who has said he was not interested in widespread cost-slashing, wrote that the ''weak economy and significant declines in advertising volume at our newspapers'' have hurt cash flow.
 ''Unfortunately, I can't turn this ship from its course of the past 10 years within just a few months,'' he wrote. ''Further, while I will do everything in my power to drive, pull and drag this company forward, I can't promise we won't see additional position eliminations in the future, if we continue at our current rate of cash flow decline.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); CASH FLOW (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (76%); TRENDS (76%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (70%); SEVERANCE PAY (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



363 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Quite a Show, But With One Crucial No-Show

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Roger Clemens has starred in three major TV performances this year: a ''60 Minutes'' interview with Mike Wallace; a news conference in which he stormed out; and his testimony to the House oversight committee on Wednesday in which he continued to deny using human growth hormone or steroids, as alleged by his former personal trainer Brian McNamee.
 Clemens was calmer, refusing to explode even when he was regularly called a liar. But even his lawyers, Rusty Hardin and Lanny Breuer, could not stop Clemens from starting to shout over Henry A. Waxman, the committee chairman, when Waxman said that Andy Pettitte did not believe his pal's denials about using H.G.H. 
 TV at its best shows you something new, like the moon landing, and here was something completely different: Waxman gaveled shut the Rocket.
 Clemens looked as if he might be nearing a personal Pacino moment, in which you could imagine him confronting Waxman and yelling: ''You're out of order! This whole hearing is out of order!'' The fairness of the hearing was on the mind of Roger Cossack, the legal analyst for ESPN's even-handed coverage. Cossack stuck to a basic theme that the hearing was the wrong place to ''try'' Clemens.
 ''Put this in a court of law where Clemens can face his accuser,'' he said, referring to Pettitte, rather than have his words read aloud. Pettitte was excused from testifying -- a move Cossack criticized -- for having already given incriminating private testimony about Clemens to the committee.
 Pettitte's presence would have elevated the drama, pitting friend against friend -- a man called a liar in the hearing against a pitcher whose credibility was viewed as something close to Atticus Finch's.
 There was drama Wednesday but not a true dramatic arc over the 4 hours 41 minutes (a tad longer than ''The Sorrow and the Pity''). The quality of the questioning was determined by the members' prosecutorial skills, but all members, regardless of their preparation or attention spans, get their turn.
 Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, shone above the others, reminding Clemens repeatedly that he was under oath. But he didn't help his credibility by calling him ''one of my heroes'' even while labeling him a liar.
 Cummings's hero worship was followed by Eleanor Holmes Norton, a Democrat and the District of Columbia's delegate to Congress. She told Clemens, ''I'm sure you're going to heaven'' after hearing his litany of being too trusting (such as believing McNamee was a doctor). And William Macy Clay, Democrat of Missouri, foolishly asked Clemens which uniform he would wear into the Hall of Fame. 
 Dan Burton, Republican of Indiana, wasn't star-struck, but he broke through the clutter on the oversight panel by starting out his questioning of McNamee in a snit (did he rehearse being that miffed?) and almost ending up mad as hell. He led McNamee on an exhilarating trial of past lies before saying, ''I know one thing I don't believe -- and that's you!''
 For a Congressional hearing, this was more enjoyable than N.F.L. Commissioner Paul Tagliabue's mea culpas over Janet Jackson's Super Bowl halftime breast exposure. But not nearly as much fun as Casey Stengel's Senate testimony about baseball economics.
 Despite all the testimony, one crucial question went unasked.
 Let me explain: Pettitte says Clemens told him he used H.G.H. But Clemens said his buddy ''misheard'' what he was saying about watching something on TV about three old men rejuvenated by using H.G.H.
 Question: What were you watching, Mr. Clemens -- ''Cocoon''?
 It is quite a leap of linguistics to go from juiced-up geezers to a confession of H.G.H. use. How could such a misunderstanding occur?
 Had Pettitte not been excused, there might have been more clarity. And, as Cossack said, Clemens could have faced the former teammate corroborating the accusations of his former trainer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The congressmen Tom Davis, left, and Henry A. Waxman during Wednesday's hearing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); WITNESSES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); STEROIDS (72%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (72%); LAWYERS (72%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (90%); DAN BURTON (57%); TOM DAVIS (57%); ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (57%); WILLIAM LACY CLAY JR (57%); ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



364 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: McCain and Obama Take Their Senatorial Rivalry Into the Presidential Race

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WAUKESHA, Wis. 

 BODY:
Their tempest began well before their bids for a presidential nomination.
 When Senator John McCain claimed victory for a round of primaries on Tuesday, it was little surprise that he skipped over criticism of Senator Barack Obama's policies. There will be plenty of time for that.
 Instead, Mr. McCain zeroed in on another long-held annoyance, a perception that Mr. Obama wears a political halo. 
 ''I don't seek the presidency on the presumption that I am blessed with such personal greatness,'' Mr. McCain said. ''That history has anointed me to save my country in its hour of need.''
 A contentious relationship between Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, has been percolating on Capitol Hill for more than two years. 
 Now it is being thrust to the forefront as Mr. Obama spends as much time taking on Mr. McCain as he does Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, telling voters here on Wednesday that ''somewhere along the line he traded principles for his party's nomination.''
 ''If you want the same as we've had in the last seven years,'' Mr. Obama said, ''then I think John McCain's going to be a great choice.''
 The exchanges, hardly uncommon in the throes of a biting race, carry residue of a dust-up they had two years ago and provide a window into how they view, and may approach, each other should they battle in a general election. 
 In a debate in 2006 on ethics in the Senate, which Mr. McCain regarded as a signature issue, he dressed down Mr. Obama and accused the freshman senator of disingenuousness. Mr. Obama called Mr. McCain cranky.
 In public, that dispute melted away when the two cocked their fists at each other and hugged for a mutually beneficial photo opportunity. Their rapport has not advanced, and the two have a distant relationship.The two men are very different. Mr. McCain, 71, is a veteran of political and military battles. Mr. Obama, 46, is community organizer turned Ivy League graduate. Mr. McCain has told friends and associates that he views Mr. Obama as something of an upstart whose charmed political life delivered him to the same place Mr. McCain's decades of public and military service did. 
 And, associates said, Mr. McCain had always hoped to take on Mrs. Clinton. 
 Although Mrs. Clinton has been in the Senate just four more years than Mr. Obama, she has been on the Armed Services Committee and traveled around the world with Mr. McCain. 
 Examples of their mutual respect typically include a tale of holding a vodka-drinking contest in Estonia. Such a celebration may have been unlikely to happen with Mr. Obama, who on a trip to Russia in 2005 asked that his shot glass be filled with water.
 The Democratic nomination is far from decided, and Mr. McCain could still have his wish to face Mrs. Clinton. But after winning 21 states, amassing more delegates and building a larger fund-raising network, Mr. Obama has increased his chances week by week, and his advisers are deliberating how to confront Mr. McCain, particularly because a selling point of both is their ability to court independents and moderates. 
 Mr. Obama's early strategy is clear: No matter what the message, praise Mr. McCain for his service to the country, particularly because Mr. Obama was not in the military. It is, strategists said, a similar approach to how Bill Clinton dealt with Bob Dole in 1996.
 ''By the way, John McCain is a great American hero, a war hero,'' Mr. Obama told voters here. ''We honor his service.'' 
 He proceeded to criticize Mr. McCain for supporting the extension of the Bush administration's tax cuts. Mr. McCain once opposed the idea.
 ''George Bush may not be on the ballot this fall, but his tax cuts and his economic policies are,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And if John McCain wants to debate the specifics of how well the economy has worked for ordinary families over the last seven years, that is a debate that I am happy to have, because the American people know that Bush's policies have not worked for ordinary Americans.''
 As Mr. Obama seeks to paint Mr. McCain as an extension of the current White House, Mr. McCain is seeking to raise questions about Mr. Obama's readiness for the presidency. His critique carries a familiar frequency to questions that Mrs. Clinton raises.
 He said Wednesday: ''I've not observed every speech that he's given, obviously. But they are singularly lacking in specifics.''
 Before an audience of Republicans on Tuesday, Mr. McCain was far more animated. ''I have seen men's hopes tested in hard and cruel ways that few will ever experience,'' Mr. McCain said. 
 The exchanges recall the feuding on the ethics bill, which lingered for days and drew considerable notice, given Mr. McCain's tone to a colleague. 
 ''I understand how important the opportunity to lead your party's effort to exploit this issue must seem to a freshman senator,'' Mr. McCain wrote in a letter to Mr. Obama that he sent to every news outlet on Capitol Hill. ''And I hold no hard feelings over your earlier disingenuousness.''
 For his part, Mr. Obama has tended to highlight the generational differences, saying he represents the future and Mr. McCain represents the past. Mr. Obama's advisers said although they have not determined how to deal with Mr. McCain, they intend to keep their criticism focused on differences over issues.
 And no, they said, do not expect Mr. Obama to dust off the lyrics to a song he performed on March 11, 2006, when he appeared as a keynote speaker at the Gridiron Dinner in Washington. His words were written to the tune of ''If I Only Had a Brain.''
 ''When a wide-eyed young idealist, confronts a seasoned realist, there's bound to be some strain,'' Mr. Obama sang perfectly on pitch. ''With the game barely started, I'd be feeling less downhearted, if I only had McCain.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators John McCain, left, and Barack Obama at a hearing in 2006, the year they exchanged words over ethics reform. The dispute melted away, but the hostility has endured. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ETHICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ESTONIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



365 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Dependent on New Jersey's Roads, and Bracing for Higher Tolls

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: DAYTON, N.J. 

 BODY:
Up and down the New Jersey Turnpike, warehouse managers like Ray O'Brien are bracing for the worst.
 The turnpike is his lifeline, a cheap, reliable and convenient conduit to the ports, airports and railheads around Newark, through which billions of dollars of goods pass each year, and a thoroughfare to deliver those goods along the East Coast.
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine's plan for steep toll increases on the turnpike, as well as the Garden State Parkway and the Atlantic City Expressway, was the last thing Mr. O'Brien, a warehouse manager for the furniture wholesaler Coaster Company of America, wanted to hear. With the economy souring and gasoline prices soaring, business prospects are becoming increasingly uncertain.
 If transportation costs continue to swell, the exodus of businesses to counties north of New York City and eastern Pennsylvania is likely to quicken, businessmen and transportation experts say, undermining New Jersey's warehouse and distribution industry, the state's largest single employer. 
 ''These guys made these investments with an understanding that the costs would be tolerable,'' said Martin E. Robins, a senior fellow at the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center at Rutgers University. ''The toll increases are definitely a threat.'' 
 Higher tolls would not only make it more expensive for Mr. O'Brien's workers to get to Coaster's 438,000-square-foot warehouse near Exit 8A, but they also would most likely cause the trucking companies that deliver 10 40-foot-long containers each day -- and pick up other merchandise for delivery -- to raise their prices to offset the $186 a truck would pay to ride the length of the turnpike in 2022. Currently, they pay $23.
 Mr. O'Brien is scheduled to renegotiate in April with the trucking companies that deliver crates of furniture to his warehouse. ''They're going to be talking to us about the toll increases,'' Mr. O'Brien said. ''Someone's going to pay for it, and it's not going to be them.'' 
 While current tolls on the turnpike are well below the national average, if Mr. Corzine gets his way, they would rise by as much as 800 percent by 2022 to pay down the state's $32 billion debt and to finance transportation projects. 
 Simply put, the turnpike would go from being one of New Jersey's great bargains to one of its biggest burdens, and in turn could spell trouble for companies that in the last few decades opened the vast warehouses lining the highway near exits 7A and 8A. Companies, including Johnson & Johnson and Mercedes-Benz, have leased millions of square feet of space there because of its easy access to the ports and to their customers.
 Joseph S. Taylor, chief executive of the Matrix Development Group -- which builds and leases warehouses and is partly responsible for the quadrupling of commercial space near Exit 8A -- has had a front-row seat to the migration.
 As it is now, Mr. Taylor said that about a quarter of the companies that consider leasing space from Matrix end up in Pennsylvania, up from 5 percent a decade ago.
 ''It was a trickle in the 1980s, a stream in the 1990s and a flow in the 2000s,'' he said. 
 The toll increases alone will not push companies to move elsewhere, he said. But combined with rising labor costs and taxes, congestion and environmental red tape, companies -- particularly those that ship many products outside the New York area -- are going to think about how to bypass New Jersey.
 ''These guys are going to go where there are prices they can handle,'' Mr. Taylor said.
 BabyAge Inc., an Internet retailer, made that decision four years ago when it left its cramped quarters in Secaucus, N.J., and bought a new warehouse in Wilkes Barre, Pa., just off Interstate 81, not far from its intersection with Interstate 80.
 In addition to lower real estate prices, tax breaks and an affordable hourly work force, said the company's chief executive, Jack Kiefer, the cost of receiving containers that arrive from the West and the South has fallen because the trucks that deliver them do not have to go through New Jersey to reach his warehouse.
 ''We moved 110 miles west, but our savings on shipments from Charlotte, Indiana or California have decreased because it's such a hassle to drive through New Jersey,'' Mr. Kiefer said. ''If we were still in New Jersey, they would pass the tolls along to me. As soon as they drive past the Delaware, there's a higher premium.''
 To be sure, transportation costs are just one factor that companies consider when deciding whether to sign a 10- or 15-year lease on a warehouse. Rents, taxes, adequate space and a reliable stream of well-trained workers are equally important, if not more so.
 And while truckers heading to eastern Pennsylvania, where dozens of companies have moved, can avoid tolls on Interstate 78 and Interstate 80, they must travel farther and spend more on fuel. In addition, congestion on those roads has increased because of the commuters who share the roads with tractor-trailers. Pennsylvania is also awaiting federal permission to introduce tolls on Interstate 80.
 Moreover, it is possible that Mr. Corzine will reduce the size of his planned toll increases, which include four 50 percent rises -- one every four years through 2022 -- on top of annual inflation adjustments, because of opposition from trucking companies and drivers who rely heavily on the turnpike.
 In some parts of the state, truckers are expected to leave the parkway and the turnpike for local roads to save money, should the Legislature approve Mr. Corzine's plan. But for the vast number of truckers who go back and forth between the port, the airport in Newark and the railhead in Kearny, there are few practical alternatives to the turnpike.
 Bradley I. Abelow, Mr. Corzine's chief of staff, is aware that the higher tolls will cut into truckers' profits and will ultimately be passed on to their customers, but he says that truckers will benefit from the additional investment in the state's roads, bridges and tunnels.
 ''The truckers and folks in the shipping business -- their livelihoods are attached to what their costs are of being on the road,'' Mr. Abelow said. ''We need to find a way to invest in capital in our transportation infrastructure, and the truckers are going to bear part of that cost.''
 Mr. Abelow said that although he expected trucking companies to pass along some of the toll increases to their customers, he hoped that the predictable schedule of increases would give them time to prepare.
 At the same time, it could also give companies time to consider alternatives when the leases on their warehouses come up for renewal. Or, as often happens, they may simply raise their prices to compensate for higher trucking costs. But with consumers already hit with a slumping home market, higher gas prices and a weakening job market, companies may find it hard to raise prices.
 ''There's no question about it, they're not going to eat the higher tolls,'' Craig Phillips, senior vice president for distribution at Lifetime Brands, said of the trucking companies as he stood in the company's 772,000-square-foot warehouse in Robbinsville. ''But it's not going to be easy to pass it along in this economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The furniture wholesaler Coaster Company of America considers the New Jersey Turnpike its lifeline, a cheap and reliable conduit to rails, ports and airports. It is bracing for a toll increase.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) MAP: Tolls could rise up to 800 percent under a Corzine plan. Map details area of Dayton. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (91%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); WHOLESALERS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); TRUCKING (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); FURNITURE & FURNISHINGS WHOLESALERS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); COASTER CO OF AMERICA (57%); MATRIX DEVELOPMENT GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); SIC5021 FURNITURE (57%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (50%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



366 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Clinton and McCain Jab at Obama, Who Offers Details of His Jobs Program

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Patrick Healy contributed reporting from McAllen, Tex., and Jeff Zeleny from Janesville, Wis.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Senators John McCain and Hillary Rodham Clinton accused Senator Barack Obama of using rhetoric that lacks specifics or fails to yield results, Mr. Obama countered on Wednesday by offering a detailed plan to spend $210 billion to create jobs in construction and environmentally friendly fields. 
 Mr. Obama's sweep of Tuesday's primaries in Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia, which pushed him into the lead in the count for Democratic delegates, left him very much the target of his main Democratic and Republican rivals, who have both sought to suggest that his promises of change are empty. 
 Mrs. Clinton, of New York, basked in cheers from crowds during a campaign swing through Texas, whose March 4 primary has become increasingly vital to her candidacy. She also contrasted what she called her ''solutions'' for voters' financial struggles with what she termed the ''rhetoric'' of Mr. Obama, her rival for the Democratic nomination.
 And half a continent away at a news conference in Washington, Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, said Mr. Obama's speeches had been ''singularly lacking in specifics.'' 
 Mr. Obama, of Illinois, meanwhile, opened his campaign for next week's Wisconsin primary by presenting his plan to spur the creation of construction and environmentally friendly jobs. He made his speech inside a General Motors plant in Janesville, Wis., one day after G.M. posted a $38.7 billion loss for 2007, the largest ever for a United States auto company. 
 Mr. Obama seemed to allude to the criticism of his rivals who suggest that he excels at rhetoric, but falls short on details, by saying at the outset of his remarks that he was going to ''take it down a notch'' by giving a speech that he said would be ''a little more detailed, a little longer, with not as many applause lines.''
 He went on to call for a decade-long investment in a $150 billion plan to create five million so-called ''green-collar'' jobs to develop energy sources that are friendly to the environment. He also called for a National Infrastructure Reinvestment Bank, a $60 billion program, which he said would create two million jobs for rebuilding highways, bridges and airports. 
 ''I've paid for every element of this economic agenda,'' said Mr. Obama, who said the money would come from costs associated with the Iraq war and from eliminating tax breaks for corporations. 
 The nation's economic woes stemmed from failures of government, he said. 
 ''We are not standing on the brink of recession due to forces beyond our control,'' Mr. Obama said. ''The fallout from the housing crisis that's cost jobs and wiped out savings was not an inevitable part of the business cycle; it was a failure of leadership and imagination in Washington.''
 The Republican National Committee released what it called an ''Obama Spend-O-Meter,'' designed to calculate the cost of the programs he has proposed. ''Barack Obama may package his economic plans with poetic rhetoric, but it's fundamentally still the same old tax-and-spend liberal dogma,'' said Alex Conant, a committee spokesman.
 Mrs. Clinton's campaign noted that she had already supported similar measures. In McAllen, Tex., Mrs. Clinton faulted Mr. Obama's economic agenda, saying that it ''fails to provide universal health care, fails to address the housing crisis and fails to immediately start creating good-paying jobs.''
 Mr. Obama, who has won 21 states in the Democratic presidential nominating fight, is working to add Wisconsin to his string of victories by tapping into an antiwar sentiment before that state's primary on Tuesday. As he pointed out his opposition to the war, he linked his criticism of Mrs. Clinton with Mr. McCain as he spoke of Washington's failures.
 ''It's a Washington where politicians like John McCain and Hillary Clinton voted for a war in Iraq that should've never been authorized and never been waged,'' Mr. Obama said. ''A war that is costing us thousands of precious lives and billions of dollars a week.''
 That seemed to be a debate that Mr. McCain was eager to participate in. After receiving the endorsements of the Republican leadership in the House of Representatives -- another sign that the party is beginning to coalesce around Mr. McCain, despite the past differences many Republicans have had with him -- he brought up the war, too, and criticized the Democrats for their views.
 ''They said that we would never succeed militarily; then we began to succeed militarily,'' Mr. McCain said. ''Granted, we still have a long way to go in Iraq. And then they said they can't succeed politically.'' 
 In aiming criticism at Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain seemed to ignore his last Republican rival, Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, who continues to give the McCain campaign headaches by doing well in nominating contests even though, as McCain's campaign noted Wednesday, there are not enough delegates left for Mr. Huckabee to win the nomination. (It calculated that he would need to win 123 percent of the remaining delegates.)
 ''Of course, I would like for him to withdraw today,'' Mr. McCain told reporters, referring to Mr. Huckabee. ''It would be much easier. 
 ''But I respect, and I have repeatedly said I respect, his right to continue in this race for just as long as he wants to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two House leaders, John A. Boehner, left, and Roy Blunt, endorsing Senator John McCain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Young supporters raised flags for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in McAllen, Tex. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BeATRICE DE GeA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator Barack Obama, on a tour of the General Motors plant in Janesville, Wis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); IRAQ WAR (64%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); ROY BLUNT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MCALLEN, TX, USA (56%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



367 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2104 words

HEADLINE: Michelle Obama Thrives in Campaign Trenches

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
There is no confusing Michelle Obama for her husband on the campaign trail.
 Asked at the Democratic debate in Los Angeles whether he would pick Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as a vice-presidential running mate, Senator Barack Obama said she ''would be on anybody's short list.''
 But when a television interviewer asked Mrs. Obama last week whether she would support Mrs. Clinton, if she won the nomination, Mrs. Obama was less generous. 
 ''I'd have to think about that,'' Mrs. Obama said on ''Good Morning America'' on ABC. ''I'd have to think about -- policies, her approach, her tone.'' 
 Outspoken, strong-willed, funny, gutsy and sometimes sarcastic, Michelle Obama is playing a pivotal role in her husband's campaign as it builds on a series of successes, including a sweep on Tuesday of contests in Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia.
 Her personal style -- forthright, comfortable in the trenches, and often more blunt than Mr. Obama -- plays well with a broad swath of the electorate and has given the campaign a steelier edge while allowing Mr. Obama to stay largely above it all.
 ''I am trying to be as authentically me as I can be,'' Mrs. Obama said in an interview. ''My statements are coming from my experiences and my observations and my frustrations.''
 Mrs. Obama says she dislikes politics -- she insists there will be no second run for the presidency if her husband falls short this time -- but relishes a good fight, the competition of it all.
 In the beginning, she had significant questions about an Obama candidacy. She pressed advisers for a blueprint of how the campaign would raise money and compete with Mrs. Clinton and other candidates. She gave her approval after seeing a concrete plan presented in strategy meetings in late 2006, all of which she attended.
 Now she is involved in most major facets of campaign strategy, always a fierce protector of her husband's image. While the Obamas seldom travel together -- fanning out much as the Clintons do -- Mrs. Obama is often in touch with key advisers and her message is shaped by the same strategists who advise her husband.
 ''The strategy is not to pigeonhole her to any one kind of audience,'' said Valerie Jarrett, a close family friend who is a senior adviser to the Obama campaign.
 Growing up in Chicago, her brother, Craig Robinson, recalls, Mrs. Obama did not like watching close basketball games, but would always watch blowouts to the end.
 ''She didn't like the stress of watching,'' said Mr. Robinson, the men's basketball coach at Brown University. Thinking about the campaign for a moment, he added: ''It's much harder watching Barack in this race than watching my own team. It's much harder to watch someone you love go through a close game.''
 At almost six feet tall in heels, Mrs. Obama, 44, cuts an athletic and authoritative figure in her tailored pantsuits and skirts. A Harvard-educated lawyer who had been earning $212,000 a year as a hospital executive before she took leave on Jan. 1, she delivers rousing 40-minute speeches -- surveying topics as far-ranging as the specific failings of the federal No Child Left Behind education act and problems with the military strategy in Iraq -- without the aid of even a notecard.
 A doting mother of two, Mrs. Obama has kept crowds waiting with telephone calls to her ''little people'' -- daughters Sasha, 6, and Malia, 9.
 But Mrs. Obama's confident, commanding presence has its drawbacks. At an address last month for an African-American awards gala in Atlanta, some in attendance were left feeling that she had been condescending, preaching to a group of achievers about the need to achieve.
 ''Her speech was very long and inappropriate for that occasion,'' said Vivian Creighton Bishop, a public official in Columbus, Ga., who supports Mrs. Clinton.
 Mrs. Obama has also had to learn to tamp down her sometimes biting humor because it too often leaves Mr. Obama as the punch line. (It has been a long time since she has talked publicly about her husband of 15 years being smelly in the morning, as she told Glamour magazine, or forgetting to put away the butter.) 
 ''What I've learned is that my humor doesn't translate to print all the time,'' she said in the interview. ''But usually when I'm speaking to a group, people understand what I'm trying to say, they get the humor, they understand the sarcasm, they get the joke.''
 Her audiences do laugh. Talking about how long it took her and Mr. Obama, 46, to pay off their student loans (they did so only in the last couple of years), she told a church audience in Cheraw, S.C., ''I'm still waiting for Barack's trust fund.'' They cackled. She continued: ''Then I heard Dick Cheney was supposed to be a relative! Thought we might be in for something here.''
 On some occasions, Mrs. Obama's straight talk has also made it necessary for the campaign to explain her remarks. In the case of ''Good Morning America,'' campaign officials pointed out that in an unbroadcast portion of the interview, Mrs. Obama later acknowledged that as a good Democrat, she would need to support Mrs. Clinton if she were the nominee. 
 Mrs. Obama's nickname inside the campaign is ''the closer'' because she is skilled at persuading undecided voters to sign pledge cards. But as a smooth orator, she is also known as a connector, volunteering her own life lessons from working-class roots and discussing her confrontation with a culture of low expectations. 
 She has been transparent about more mundane things, too, like leaning on her mother for child care while she is on the road. 
 Mrs. Obama does not have a nanny, only her mother. ''Thank God for Grandma!'' Mrs. Obama says more than once on the campaign trail, adding that she ''couldn't breathe'' if she thought her girls, who attend private school here in Chicago, were being neglected for the campaign. 
 ''I spend more time worrying about how do I keep their lives on track in the midst of this?'' she said in the interview. ''Barack and I both do. How do we keep our traditions whole? Those are the day-to-day concerns.''
 In a presidential campaign that has included discussions of race and gender, Mrs. Obama has a singular vantage point at the intersection of the two. As the advantage in some states has seesawed between Mr. Obama, of Illinois, and Mrs. Clinton, of New York, based in part on the votes of blacks and women, Mrs. Obama typically makes a plea for unity, even when race- or gender-based appeals might be expedient and easy. 
 That was the case when they packed the pews to hear her one Friday night last month in a modest Methodist church in Orangeburg, S.C.
 ''Oh, amen!'' the participants cried out over the rise and fall of her voice, springing to their feet, howling their approval with hands lifted as if in praise. 
 It was the eve of the Democratic primary in South Carolina, and Mrs. Obama was urging the audience to the polls. But they were urging her on, too: ''Come on now, tell it, sister!'' 
 And so she did, focusing on the economic hardships facing many Americans: ''What we have to understand in this race is that this is true regardless of the color of your skin, regardless of your gender,'' she said to the mostly black audience. ''This is the truth of living in America.''
 Interviews with people who know Mrs. Obama say she chose, even as a young adult, to strive for the opportunities that were closed to previous generations.
 Mrs. Obama grew up knowing, for instance, that her maternal grandfather, a carpenter, was squeezed out of the best jobs in Chicago because as a black man he was not allowed to join a union. But she said she had also been taught not to see race as a barrier, to look at the world in terms of what is possible, not the other way around. 
 ''My parents told us time and time again, 'Don't tell us what you can't do,' '' she said. '' 'And don't worry about what can go wrong.' ''
 She talks on the campaign trail about high school advisers who tried to dissuade her from applying to Princeton because they thought her scores were not good enough. (She graduated with honors in sociology in 1985.) 
 She talks about college counselors who said similar things about her desire to go to Harvard Law, from which she graduated and went on to one of the top corporate firms in Chicago.
 ''I realized that gnawing sense of self doubt that lies within all of us is within our own heads,'' she said in Atlanta. ''The truth is we are more ready and more prepared than we even know. My own life is proof of that.''
 Mrs. Obama's father, Fraser Robinson, provided for the family of four on a city worker's salary. Her mother, Marian Robinson, now 70, stayed home and allowed their two children only one hour of television a night. 
 Mrs. Obama and her brother were expected to fill their time with books, chess, sports -- and, critically important they both said, dinnertime conversations with their parents.
 The defending of ideas, the back-and-forth, the debates, they were an early in-home version of what Mrs. Obama has come to do, almost full-time now, for her husband.
 At Harvard Law School, one professor recalled that Mrs. Obama was not one to mince words. 
 ''Michelle was a student in my legal profession class in which I ask students how they would react to difficult ethical and professional challenges,'' said the professor, David B. Wilkins. ''Not surprisingly, many students shy away from putting themselves on the line in this way, preferring to hedge their bets or deploy technical arguments that seem to absolve them from the responsibilities of decision-making. Michelle had no need for such fig leaves. She always stated her position clearly and decisively.'' 
 Mrs. Obama said her mother has been her No. 1 advocate and role model, even though their lives could not be more dissimilar. 
 ''I remember Michelle telling me about a teacher complaining about her temper in elementary school,'' said Verna L. Williams, a law professor in Cincinnati who has been a friend of Mrs. Obama since their days at Harvard. ''She said her mom told the teacher: 'Yeah, she's got a temper. But we decided to keep her anyway!' ''
 Mrs. Obama is an organized and self-described ''task master,'' who has always been focused -- so much so, that when she met Mr. Obama in 1989, when they were working at the same law firm in Chicago, she refused to go out on what Mr. Obama called ''a proper date.'' 
 ''Eventually I wore her down,'' he wrote in his memoir. During the summer when she met Mr. Obama, Mrs. Obama said she was influenced by his sense of purpose, and began to change her own career to add more service to others.
 Martha L. Minow, a professor at Harvard Law School, did work with Mrs. Obama for a nonprofit educational group in Chicago. Dr. Minow's father, Newton N. Minow, is senior counsel at Sidley Austin, the law firm where the Obamas met. Dr. Minow said she remembered hearing about the day Mr. Obama announced to her father that he would be leaving the firm to pursue public service.
 ''My dad was very supportive,'' she said. ''Then he said, 'One more thing, I'm going to take Michelle with me.' ''
 And Mr. Obama did. Mrs. Obama left the firm, where she specialized in marketing and intellectual property, after two years and eventually founded the Chicago office of Public Allies, a national nonprofit leadership-training network for young adults. 
 After that, she gravitated toward the University of Chicago, whose campus is in her own South Side neighborhood. As a whole, the university has an often-tense relationship with the poorer surrounding area, and Mrs. Obama's job, as vice president for community and external affairs at the university's medical center, is to form partnerships between the two. 
 A recent project has focused on opening more neighborhood clinics to provide preventive care and take stress off the emergency room. Mrs. Obama earned a reputation as being equally tough on the hospital and the community in regard to their obligations to each other.
 Now, she often describes her life to audiences in terms of beating the culture of low expectations that confronted ''a little black girl'' from the South Side. 
 ''I wasn't supposed to have my own successful career,'' Mrs. Obama said in Atlanta. ''They said my achievement must have been the result of racial preferences. And I am certainly not supposed to be standing here, maybe to become the next first lady of the United States.''
 Asked about the role of first lady, Mrs. Obama said she saw it as a full-time job. But, she hastened to add, she reserved the right to change her mind if she gets there.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michelle Obama said of her role, ''I am trying to be as authentically me as I can be.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
Michelle Obama, above, at a rally last week at the University of California, Los Angeles, with Stevie Wonder in the background. At left, she campaigned last month in Allendale, S.C.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); BASKETBALL (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008



368 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Some Cities Are Spared The Slide In Housing

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and RON NIXON; Clifford Krauss reported from Austin in late January and later added updated information. Ron Nixon reported from New York.

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
The real estate market these days is a tale of two Americas, and one of them is not doing too badly.
 In the America of big-city housing markets, especially on the coasts and in the struggling industrial Midwest, the huge run-up in values in recent years has given way to big drops in prices and sales volume. Millions of people owe more than their houses are worth.
 But in the other America, specifically in small cities like Austin; Grand Forks, N.D.; Yakima, Wash.; and Salem, Mass., the available evidence suggests the real estate market is holding up. Prices there never boomed as crazily as they did in the big cities, and now, even though volume is down almost everywhere, prices in many of these towns are firm or rising. 
 Consider the experience of one Austin resident, Dan Clark. Forced by a job change to put his house here on the market, he wondered whether he would get anything like the $385,000 he paid for it a year ago. He was floored when the second potential buyer to look at the place snapped it up for $429,000. ''Manna from heaven,'' he said. 
 Many people are aware that a handful of big-city markets, like Manhattan and San Francisco, have largely resisted the real estate slide. It is less widely known that the same thing is true in scores of smaller markets. 
 ''I would call them backcountry cities,'' said Robert J. Shiller, an economist at Yale University and an expert on real estate markets who predicted the bursting of both the housing and stock market bubbles of recent years. ''They are just going through normal growth, and they are out of the bubble picture.''
 In figures released on Thursday covering 150 metropolitan areas, the National Association of Realtors said that median home prices were falling in 77 markets -- but rising in 73. 
 Real estate statistics must be interpreted with caution, especially when sales volumes are declining, as they are all over the country. But an analysis by The New York Times of three distinct data sets -- mortgage data from the government, sales figures from the Realtors' group and courthouse records from a company called DataQuick -- produced a list of 17 metropolitan areas where all three sources of information agree that prices were still rising as of late last year, the most recent figures available.
 For another 43 cities, two data sets, from the Realtors and the government, suggested that prices were still rising late in the year. DataQuick could provide no information on those cities.
 How long the situation will last is anyone's guess. One possibility is that the smaller cities are just lagging behind the big ones in seeing prices fall. And if the economy weakens drastically, all bets are off. But for now, buyers in these towns seem to feel they are getting a lot of house for the money; sellers and brokers are realizing that they have, so far, dodged a bullet.
 ''When I read about the national real estate market, I feel fortunate I am in Austin,'' said Shara Parker, a real estate agent who is happy she turned down a chance four years ago to relocate to Las Vegas, which was booming then and is sinking now. ''Our highs are not as high and our lows are not as low.''
 Economists say small and medium cities, especially those where land availability is not a constraint on growth, have done better than the nation as a whole because they have followed more traditional economic patterns. New-home prices in most of these places still reflect, more or less, the cost of the labor and materials used to build the houses, in addition to a profit margin.
 ''There are a lot of places where you didn't have flipping of real estate,'' said Steve Dennis, a business professor at the University of North Dakota. ''Since you didn't have the price appreciation, you don't have the price correction.''
 Generally, the markets that are showing strength do not have the bulging housing inventories of larger cities, because there was relatively little speculative building during the early part of this decade. Most of the towns have only modest exposure to the subprime loan crisis. And falling mortgage rates are buoying these markets.
 Typically, their local economies are still producing new jobs and healthy income growth because of factors like rising crop prices (as in Bismarck, N.D.) or local oil booms (Midland, Tex.) or an influx of second-home buyers (Sun Valley, Idaho). 
 ''In 2008, I see momentum growing in Middle America for prices to stabilize and increase, given the historic mortgage rates,'' said Lawrence Yun, chief economist for the Realtors. But he added, ''If we go into a recession, it's possible some markets will reverse themselves.''
 Austin is a good example of a real estate market that was slow and steady for years and now appears to be taking off. Austin's high-tech industries are attracting well-heeled buyers from cities where real estate is far more expensive. 
 Sales prices for existing homes barely moved from 2001 to 2005, when the markets in a handful of superstar cities were on fire. But last year, the median price for a single family home rose 6.4 percent, to $185,000. It was the second consecutive strong year. 
 ''I have to calm my buyer clients down,'' said Mark Minchew, an Austin Realtor, ''so they don't pay too much.'' 
 The fly in the ointment for these cities is declining sales volumes, which prompt some experts to argue that median prices are presenting an unduly rosy picture. If fewer houses sell, but the ones that do sell are at the high end of the range, that can skew median prices.
 ''In the markets that are doing better, lots of people are not selling their houses, so you don't see the prices going down because they are not selling for a lower price,'' said Todd Sinai, a real estate professor at the University of Pennsylvania. ''The market is doing a lot worse than what the median prices would show.''
 Still, in many of the cities where prices are strongest, local Realtors contend that volume drop-offs have been modest, just a few percentage points.
 Mr. Clark is one Austin home seller with a happy tale. When a recruiter called him late last year with an enticing executive health care job in Fort Worth, Mr. Clark thought twice about trying to sell a house he had bought only a year before. 
 ''I was concerned after my relocation package ran out I would have to carry either two mortgages or a mortgage and apartment rent,'' he recalled. Instead he sold the house for a profit, and only $10,000 below his asking price. ''A weight was taken off our shoulders,'' he said.
 Mike Colpitts, the editor of Housing Predictor, an online housing forecaster, says that the market is still slowing and that some smaller cities will be hit. He projects that only 60 of the 251 markets in the United States that he monitors will show price appreciation in 2008. ''The housing market is real sad, and getting sadder,'' he said. 
 Realtors in medium and small cities contend the median price figures may actually underestimate market sentiment, because the issuance of large mortgages has frozen up in recent weeks because of problems on Wall Street. In the view of these Realtors, it is the high-end sales that are stalled in smaller cities, skewing the median price data downward.
 ''Call me back next year, and we'll probably have a 3 percent to 5 percent price increase in 2008,'' said Rob Higgins, executive vice president for the Spokane Association of Realtors. The median price for a home sold in Spokane was up 2.6 percent in 2007.
 In Salem, Ore, ''everything is going up, even the lower-income homes,'' said Marlene Scully, executive vice president of the Salem Association of Realtors. Realtor data for the metro area that includes Salem showed a 3.6 percent increase for the year.
 Ms. Scully noted that of the houses that were listed in 2007, 97.6 percent sold for the listed price, ''which tells me there is a strong market because if there weren't, the sellers would have to negotiate down.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Friday about cities in which real estate values are holding up misidentified the state of one city cited as an example. The city is Salem, Ore., not Salem, Mass.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim and Hatti Wang, with their daughters, Claire, left, and Chloe, at an open house in Austin, Tex. The couple, both working in computer technology, want to move to a better school district.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C7) CHART: Less Boom -- but Less Bust, Too: Some smaller American cities, which largely missed out on the boom in home prices seen in places like California and Florida, have also not suffered the sharply falling prices.(Source: Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight)(pg. C7) Chart details Where house prices have been more stable . . and where the bust has followed the boom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (96%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); CITIES (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); YAKIMA, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



369 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Fresh Start Conservatism

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
In the 19th century, industrialization swept the world. Many European nations expanded their welfare states but kept their education systems exclusive. The U.S. tried the opposite approach. American leaders expanded education and created the highest quality work force on the planet.
 That quality work force was the single biggest reason the U.S. emerged as the economic superpower of the 20th century. Generation after generation, American workers were better educated, more industrious and more innovative than the ones that came before. 
 That progress stopped about 30 years ago. The percentage of young Americans completing college has been stagnant for a generation. As well-educated boomers retire over the next decades, the quality of the American work force is likely to decline. Mitt Romney captured the consequences in his withdrawal statement: ''I am convinced that unless America changes course, we will become the France of the 21st century -- still a great nation, but no longer the leader of the world.''
 Americans feel the slippage every day. 
 If I were advising the Republican nominee, this is one of the places I'd ask him to plant his flag. I'd ask him to call for a new human capital revolution, so that the U.S. could recapture the spirit of reforms like the Morrill Act of the 19th century, the high school movement of the early 20th century and the G.I. Bill after World War II. 
 Doing that would mean taking on the populists of the left and right, the ones who imagine the problem is globalization and unfair trade when in fact the real problem is that the talents of American workers are not keeping up with technological change.
 Doing that would also mean stealing ideas from both the left and right. Liberals have spent more time thinking about human capital than conservatives, who have tended to imagine that if you build a free market, a quality labor force would magically appear. 
 Doing that would also mean transcending economic policy categories. If there is one thing we have learned over the bitter experience of the past 30 years, it is that per-pupil expenditures and days in the classroom are not sufficient to produce superb information-economy workers. They emerge from intact families, quality neighborhoods and healthy moral cultures.
 Finally, doing that would mean laying down lifelong policies. Human capital development is like nutrition -- you have to do it every day.
 The first group of policies would foster two-parent families. If all American families looked like the intact middle-class ones, we wouldn't have nationally low education outcomes. Married men earn 10 percent to 40 percent more than single men with similar skills, and their children are much more likely to graduate from high school. But among the lower-middle class, there is a poisonous spiral of economic stress and cultural decay.
 A new working class tax credit applied against the payroll tax would reduce some of the stress. So would a larger child tax credit and increases in the Earned Income Tax Credit. The federal budget should bestow less on seniors and more on young families. 
 The second group of policies would involve early-childhood education. There could be nurse-home visits for children in chaotic homes so that they have some authority in their lives. Preschool should be radically expanded and accountability programs put in place.
 Third, the next president has to loosen the grip of the teachers' unions. Certification rules have to be radically reformed to attract qualified college graduates. Merit pay has to become the norm. Reforming superintendents need the freedom to copy the models -- like KIPP Academies -- that actually work.
 Fourth, Democrats like to talk about college affordability, but that's the least important explanation for why so many students don't complete college. The real reasons are that students are academically unprepared and emotionally disengaged. National service should be a rite of passage for 20-somethings, and these volunteers could mentor students through high school and college years. 
 Fifth, portable health insurance and retraining accounts would give adult workers security. Income taxes are not going to be coming down, but they need to stay where they are. As Edward Prescott has shown, higher taxes mean less work, and less work means less worker development.
 The agenda could go on, but the point is this: Democrats believe in fine-tuning the economy. They believe in intervening in a thousand little ways to address problems. Republicans believe these thousands of little Band-Aids hinder movement and distort productivity. But Republicans do believe, or at least should, that positive government can help prepare people for the rigors of competition, so they can have an open field and fair chance.
 That's the conservatism of the fresh start. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (78%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); PARENTS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); MARRIAGE (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



370 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Today In Business

 BODY:
SOBER ASSESSMENT Although avoiding the prediction of a recession, the two top economic policymakers said they were scaling back their forecasts for the nation's economy. 
 THE OTHER HOUSING MARKET In small cities around the country, evidence suggests the real estate market is holding up. [C1.] 
 CREDIT CRUNCH A source of financing for municipalities, hospitals, student loans and some mutual funds has suddenly become astronomically expensive. [C1.]
 Banks are telling investors that the market for auction-rate securities is frozen -- and so is their cash. [C6.]
 JOB CUTS AT THE TIMES The New York Times plans to eliminate about 100 newsroom jobs. [C1.]
 A RICH MAN'S QUANDARY The desire of Peter G. Peterson to be a credible voice for broad fiscal constraint is hampered by the riches he reaped from a controversial tax break. [C1.]
 STRENGTH IN EXPORTS Foreigners bought American goods at a near record rate in 2007, helping the trade deficit shrink for the first time in five years. [C3.]
 GERMAN CHIEF INVESTIGATED Klaus Zumwinkel, below, chief executive of Deutsche Post, which owns the package-delivery business DHL, and head of the supervisory board of Deutsche Telekom, was accused of tax evasion by the German authorities. [C4.]
 G.M. BUYOUTS The president of the United Automobile Workers union expects 15,000 to 20,000 workers will take a buyout from General Motors. [C3.]
 ONE WORLD, ONE CAR Ford puts its Fiesta small car on sale in Europe this fall, with Asia, Australia and North and South America to follow. [C3.]
 UBS HAS HUGE LOSS UBS posted $11.3 billion loss in the fourth quarter, writing off billions of dollars in American investments, mostly in subprime loans. [C3.]
 NEW EDITOR IN L.A. The Los Angeles Times names a new editor to take charge of an newsroom that has lost three chief editors in less than three years. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); TAX FRAUD (75%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (74%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); TAX LAW (68%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (52%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (65%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (56%); DEUTSCHE POST AG (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (56%); DTE (BIT) (56%); DPW (FRA) (55%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (55%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (53%); KLAUS ZUMWINKEL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



371 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: A Crisis of Faith

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
A decade ago, during the last global financial crisis, the word on everyone's lips was ''contagion.'' Troubles that began in a far-away country of which most people knew nothing (Thailand) eventually spread to much bigger countries with no obvious connection to Southeast Asia, like Russia and Brazil.
 Today, we're witnessing another kind of contagion, not so much across countries as across markets. Troubles that began a little over a year ago in an obscure corner of the financial system, BBB-minus subprime-mortgage-backed securities, have spread to corporate bonds, auto loans, credit cards and now -- the latest casualty -- student loans. 
 Indeed, this week the state of Michigan suspended a major student-loan program because of the sudden collapse of another $300 billion market you've never heard of, the market for auction-rate securities.
 Why has a crisis that began with loans to a limited group of home buyers ended up disrupting so much of the financial system? Because, ultimately, it's more than a subprime crisis; indeed, it's more than a housing crisis. It's a crisis of faith.
 I know that sounds dramatic. But, let me talk about what just happened to auction-rate securities.
 Like many of the financial innovations that are now being called into question, auction-rate securities are complicated deals that seemed to offer something for nothing. 
 They seemed to offer the borrowers -- typically local governments or quasi-governmental agencies, like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the Michigan Higher Education Student Loan Authority -- a way to borrow long term without paying the relatively high interest rates investors usually demand on long-term loans.
 At the same time, they seemed to offer investors an asset that was as good as cash -- readily available whenever needed -- but paid higher interest rates than bank deposits.
 The operative word in all of this, of course, is ''seemed.''
 Auction-rate securities seemed as good as cash because they involve regular, well, auctions, held as often as once a week, in which investors wanting out sell their positions to investors wanting in. In principle, it was always possible for auctions to fail for lack of enough willing buyers -- but that wasn't ever supposed to happen.
 Meanwhile, these securities seemed like a good deal for borrowers despite the fact that they contain a penalty clause: if an auction fails, the interest rate the borrower pays jumps up. (The Port Authority, which had a failed auction last week, just saw the interest rate it pays leap from 4.3 percent to 20 percent.) You see, there weren't ever supposed to be failed auctions, so the penalties weren't supposed to be relevant.
 Now, what wasn't ever supposed to happen has. In the last few weeks, a series of auctions have failed, leaving investors who thought they had ready access to their cash stuck, even as borrowers find themselves paying penalty rates.
 The collapse of the auction-rate security market doesn't reflect newly discovered problems with the borrowers: the Port Authority is as financially sound today as it was a month ago. Instead, it's contagion from the broader credit crisis.
 One channel of contagion involves monoline bond insurers, the specialized insurance companies that are supposed to guarantee debt. These companies insured buyers of local government debt against losses -- but they also guaranteed a lot of subprime-related investments, which makes everyone wonder whether they'll actually have the money to compensate losers in other markets. 
 More important, however, is the way the ever-widening financial crisis has shaken investors' faith in the whole system. People no longer trust assurances that fancy financial instruments will function the way they're supposed to -- after all, they know what happened to people who thought their subprime-backed securities were safe, AAA-rated investments. Why, then, should they believe that auction-rate securities are as good as cash? 
 And loss of trust can be a self-fulfilling prophecy. Now that new investors won't buy auction-rate securities because they no longer believe that they're as good as cash, those securities become a much worse investment.
 Needless to say, all of this is bad for the economy. I like to think of what's happening as a sort of minor-key reprise of the banking crisis that swept America in 1930 and 1931. Frustrated investors who can't get their money out of auction-rate securities aren't as photogenic as angry mobs milling outside closed banks, but the principle is the same. And so are the effects: would-be borrowers can't get credit, and the economy suffers.
 One simple measure of the seriousness of the credit problem is this: although the Federal Reserve has sharply cut the interest rate it controls over the past few weeks, the borrowing costs facing many companies and households have actually gone up.
 And the financial contagion is still spreading. What market is next? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BONDS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (75%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (69%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



372 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Major Immigrant Smuggling Ring Is Broken in Phoenix, Police Say

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
In a case highlighting this city's prominent role in the smuggling of illegal immigrants across the border, the authorities conducted a series of raids on Thursday, arresting what they said were the leaders of a ring that helped transport hundreds of people to way stations in Phoenix.
 In some ways, it was just a typical day here, where the police regularly discover houses with dozens of people held by smugglers until they can pay their passage from Mexico. In a separate operation, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials and the Maricopa County sheriff here announced the arrests of more than 100 people suspected of being in the country illegally who were on probation for various crimes. 
 But the raids on Thursday morning, by a task force of state, local and federal officers, provided a glimpse behind what the authorities described as one of the more elaborate operations that bring thousands of people across the border in this state, which has more illegal crossings than any other.
 At dawn, officers swarmed houses, mostly in western Phoenix, seizing ledgers, money, weaponry and people suspected of involvement in a major, lucrative cell that controlled the transportation of people from a border town, Naco, to Phoenix. 
 The authorities made 20 arrests, including those of two Cubans accused of directing the operation. They also detained 210 illegal immigrants and discovered 13 so-called drop houses that were way stations for smuggled immigrants, the police said. In all, the authorities planned to arrest about 75 people, they said.
 Oddities abounded along the way. 
 At the house of one man described as a ringleader, the police found several hundred roosters bred and grown for his cockfighting hobby. Another housed a shrine with a life-size statue of Jesus and a pile of $1 and $5 bills and burning candles at his feet, apparently offerings for good fortune. 
 In another house, a large family photo of a suspect showed him holding a baby, the hand gripping the girl displaying four large, ostentatious rings. An antique four-poster bed filled a small bedroom.
 ''We often see 'Scarface' or 'Godfather' posters,'' said Lt. Vince Piano of the Phoenix Police Department, a lead investigator. ''That's the mentality.''
 Roger Vanderpool, the director of the Arizona Department of Public Safety, said toppling organizations like the one on Thursday was central to disrupting smuggling.
 ''It's organized crime,'' Mr. Vanderpool said. ''Going after the head of the snake, cutting it off, is the effective way of dealing with organized crime.''
 Several years ago, as border crackdowns in California and Texas funneled illegal immigrant traffic into Arizona, Phoenix supplanted Los Angeles as the prime transshipment point in the Southwest for human smuggling, federal investigators say. 
 The role has brought increased violence, including assaults and occasionally the killing of people unable to make full payment for their crossing, shootouts among smugglers stealing one another's human cargo and kidnapping.
 There has been a surge in the discovery of drop houses, where illegal immigrants are kept while waiting to be transported to destinations across the country, aided by an extensive freeway network here not heavily guarded by a Border Patrol focused to the south. 
 Where drop houses were rarely found a decade or so ago, nearly 100 were discovered last year in Phoenix and several so far this year, including one on Thursday afternoon with 35 people. This suggests that despite reports of immigrants' leaving Arizona under pressure from the economic downturn and a crackdown by the authorities, others continue to arrive. 
 The group arrested on Thursday morning, the authorities said, primarily drove people who had just crossed the border at Naco to Phoenix, nearly 200 miles away. They often had their own security escort to ward off bandits known as bajadores. 
 The suspects were said to have worked with a smuggling ring that is based in Naco, Mexico.
 The two men described as ringleaders, Jose Luis Suarez-Lemus of Peoria, Ariz., and Roel Ayala-Fernandez of Phoenix, were charged by the state attorney general's office with several crimes, including human smuggling, money laundering, conspiracy and participating in a criminal syndicate. They may also face federal charges. 
 The immigrants, who were charged about $2,500 for their transit, were smuggled across the border through the San Pedro River Riparian National Conservation Area, a remote desert site, the authorities said.
 The group typically transported two to four loads of six to 10 people a day mainly using rental cars, perhaps several hundred people in all, the authorities believe. The organization made as much as $130,000 a week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Terry Goddard, the attorney general of Arizona, left, with Mayor Phil Gordon of Phoenix.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA SEGALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (95%); IMMIGRATION (92%); SMUGGLING (92%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (92%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); PROBATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%)

PERSON: TERRY GODDARD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



373 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Is Theft Deception? It Matters

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
There is not much doubt that Oleksandr Dorozhko used inside information when he made a killing trading stock options last fall. Nor is there a dispute that he gained the information illegally. His lawyer, arguing before an appeals court this week, spoke of ''a high-tech lock pick.''
 But that does not mean that Mr. Dorozhko, a Ukrainian resident, will have to forfeit the $296,456 he earned in one day of trading, beginning just hours before the company in question announced disappointing earnings. The Securities and Exchange Commission blocked him from collecting the profits from his brokerage account, but a federal judge has ordered the S.E.C. to let him have the cash. 
 The hearing this week, before the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, was on the S.E.C.'s request for an emergency order to keep the money frozen. If the commission loses, the case against Mr. Dorozhko will effectively be over. Even if the S.E.C. later won the case, the chances of collecting a judgment in Ukraine would be slim at best.
 This situation exists because of a strange anomaly in American securities laws. A person who legally obtains insider information -- as a corporate official or an investment banker, for example -- will almost certainly break the securities law if he or she trades on the basis of that information before it is made public.
 But it is far less clear that someone who illegally gets their hands on such information will have violated the securities laws by trading on it. The securities law used to bring insider trading charges -- Section 10(b) of the 1934 Securities Exchange Act -- talks of ''a deceptive device or contrivance,'' and it is not clear that there is any deception involved in simple theft.
 ''Dorozhko's alleged 'stealing and trading' or 'hacking and trading' does not amount to a violation'' of securities laws, Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald of United States District Court ruled last month. Although he may have broken laws by stealing the information, the judge concluded, ''Dorozhko did not breach any fiduciary or similar duty 'in connection with' the purchase or sale of a security.'' She ordered the S.E.C. to let him have his profits.
 She refused to dismiss the case, saying the S.E.C. could try to prove he got a tip from an insider, but there does not appear to be any evidence of that. Instead, the evidence indicates that on Oct. 17, 2007, someone hacked into a computer system that had information on an earnings announcement to be made by IMS Health a few hours later. 
 Minutes after the breach of computer security, Mr. Dorozhko invested $41,671 in put options that would expire worthless three days later unless IMS shares plunged before that. The next morning the share price did plunge, and Mr. Dorozhko made his money by selling the puts.
 The S.E.C. argues there was deception involved in hacking into the computer system, which was designed to allow access only to authorized people. 
 That view drew scorn from Charles A. Ross, Mr. Dorozhko's lawyer, at the appellate hearing Wednesday. ''They want you to believe there is a deception of a computer,'' he said. ''All there is is a high-tech lock pick.''
 That argument seemed to draw some sympathy from one of the three judges hearing the appeal. ''You deceived a machine,'' said Judge Sonia Sotomayor, invoking the image of Big Brother from George Orwell's novel, ''1984.'' ''We are treating a machine as a person.''
 Judge Buchwald's ruling was the first one to address the S.E.C.'s theory of deception by hacking from overseas. Two previous cases were filed, but one was settled and in the other the defendants chose to forfeit $1.6 million rather than fight the charges. If her opinion stands, it will be very hard for the commission to go after hackers in the future.
 The judge appreciated the absurdity of the situation, and expressed disappointment that the Justice Department had not brought criminal charges for computer hacking. The government has offered no explanation for that, but it is possible the department saw no likelihood of ever being able to arrest Mr. Dorozhko, and did not think the case worth the trouble.
 The judge also noted that case law could have developed differently, harking back to Justice Harry Blackmun's dissent to the Supreme Court's 1980 decision that reversed the insider trading conviction of Vincent Chiarella, a financial printer who learned of takeover targets from his work and traded on the information. The court, Justice Blackmun wrote then, was moving in a direction ''that catches relatively little of the misbehavior that all too often makes investment in securities a needlessly risky business for the uninitiated investor.''
 Donald Langevoort, a law professor at Georgetown University and the author of a treatise on insider trading law, said in an interview that he thought the S.E.C. should prevail in the case. ''Did he commit fraud? Yes,'' Mr. Langevoort said. ''Was it for the purpose of obtaining a trading advantage? Yes. Why should that not reach the level of the statute?''
 The appeals court will decide soon if the asset freeze stands, but a ruling on whether Judge Buchwald correctly interpreted the law, if it comes at all, is many months away. She would first have to dismiss the case.
 In the meantime, Congress could clear all this up with a simple amendment to clarify the law. ''The European Union revised their insider trading laws to make it clear that any gaining of inside information by criminal activity would be a violation of insider trading laws,'' Mr. Langevoort said. 
 As Chief Justice Warren Burger wrote in his dissent in the Chiarella case, ''A person who has misappropriated nonpublic information has an absolute duty to disclose that information or to refrain from trading.'' If it is illegal to trade on information acquired legally, why should it be legal to trade on information that was acquired illegally?

GRAPHIC: CHART: PRESCIENT TRADING: Oleksandr Dorozhko profited from put options in IMS Health purchased just before the stock plunged on Oct. 18.(Sources: S.E.C.
Bloomberg) Chart details VOLUME OF OCT. $25 PUTS
 and VOLUME OF OCT. $30 PUTS with two separate bar graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); US SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); COMPUTER CRIME (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); LAWYERS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (67%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



374 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: The Times To Cut 100 News Jobs

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
After years of resisting the newsroom cuts that have hit most of the industry, The New York Times will bow to growing financial strain and eliminate about 100 newsroom jobs this year, the executive editor said Thursday. 
 The cuts will be achieved ''by not filling jobs that go vacant, by offering buyouts, and if necessary by layoffs,'' the executive editor, Bill Keller, said. The more people who accept buyouts, he said, ''the smaller the prospect of layoffs, but we should brace ourselves for the likelihood that there will be some layoffs.''
 He said, ''We intend to move quickly, to get any cuts past us so that we do not spend a year bleeding slowly.'' 
 The Times has 1,332 newsroom employees, the largest number in its history; no other American newspaper has more than about 900. There were scattered buyouts and job eliminations in the newsroom in recent years, but the overall number continued to rise, largely from the growth of its Internet operations.
 The New York Times Company has made significant cuts in the newsrooms of some of its other properties, including The Boston Globe, as well as in nonnews operations. Executives say the overall headcount is 3.8 percent lower than it was a year ago. But with the industry's economic picture worsening, the company is under increased pressure from shareholders -- notably two hedge funds that recently bought almost 10 percent of the common stock -- to do something significant to improve its bottom line. 
 The Times Company stock, which topped $52 in mid-2002, sank below $15 in January. The interest of the hedge funds has generated a slight rebound. Shares closed at $18.84 Thursday, partly in response to news of the probable layoffs. 
 For 2007, the Times Company recently reported earnings of $208.7 million on revenue of $3.2 billion. The company's newspaper segment had an 8 percent operating margin last year, compared with 13 to 22 percent for several other large newspaper publishers. Newspaper industry ad revenue fell about 7 percent last year, and 4.7 percent at the Times Company, hurt by both the slowing economy and the rise of Internet advertising. Executives around the industry have projected that 2008 will be equally bad.
 Revenues are falling even as readership of major newspapers climbs sharply because of the Web. Most major papers set records for Internet traffic last month, Nielsen/NetRatings reported Thursday; the Web site of The Times had more than 20 million unique visitors, more than any other newspaper site.
 Other large papers have made much bigger cuts, proportionally, than those The Times is planning; some newsrooms are more than 20 percent smaller than they were early in the decade. 
 Even so, eliminating jobs at The Times has grown harder ''because the low-hanging fruit is gone, and so is some of the higher-hanging fruit,'' Mr. Keller said. And he suggested that the cuts could not help but affect the newspaper's journalism.
 ''To meet our budget goals, we will have to do a little less, and every time we do less, we cede a bit of advantage,'' he said. ''Our challenge will be to set our priorities in such a way that we do less in the areas that damage our competitiveness least.''
 The Times has a newsroom budget of more than $200 million. It is one of a few news organizations that has not reduced its coverage of Iraq, which costs about $3 million a year. Expenses have also been increased by an unusually long and competitive presidential campaign.
 The Times also faces increased competition from The Wall Street Journal, which was acquired in December by the News Corporation. With Rupert Murdoch, the News Corporation's chairman, calling for The Journal to become an alternative to The Times, The Journal is stepping up its coverage of politics and government.
 The Journal has about 750 newsroom personnel, a figure that does not include some of the support staff that most newspapers include in the tally. That is the largest the number has ever been, and executives have said they expect it to grow.
 The Los Angeles Times has about 870 newsroom employees, down from about 1,200 early in this decade, and recently announced that it would eliminate 40 to 50 newsroom jobs. The Washington Post has about 800, down from a peak of about 900.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); COMMON STOCK (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); COMPANY REVENUES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (85%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



375 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Shrank By 6.2% Last Year

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit shrank in 2007 for the first time in five years, the government said on Thursday. But while the numbers reflected strength in exports, they also indicated that American consumers had cut back on their spending as the economy flagged.
 Foreigners bought up American goods at a near record rate, lured by a cheap dollar and a surge in demand in the international market. But on the home front, demand for foreign goods fell sharply. Economists said the slowdown was a sign of consumers tightening their belts as they grapple with expensive oil and falling home values. 
 ''If the narrowing is coming from strong exports, that's great,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, a research and trading firm. ''But if it's coming from when imports are weak, that's not necessarily a good thing. We've got both.''
 Over all, the gap between what Americans import and export contracted by 6.2 percent last year, to $711.6 billion, according to the Commerce Department. 
 Import sales grew by about 5 percent in 2007, half the annual rate in 2006. It was the most pronounced slowing of import sales since the 2001 recession, according to John Lonski, the chief economist at Moody's Investors Service.
 ''A narrowing of the trade deficit does not imply a strong economy,'' Mr. Lonski said. 
 But the trade report also suggested that domestic businesses had benefited from a surge in foreign customers. Export sales expanded by about 12 percent for the year, the same rate as 2006.
 In December, export sales rose 1.5 percent and the trade deficit narrowed more than expected, falling 6.9 percent, to $58.8 billion.
 Economists said that the strong showing would help elevate the economy's overall growth in the fourth quarter. That would offer a shot in the arm to financial markets, which were alarmed by the initial 0.6 percent growth estimate.
 Some economists had feared that the estimate would be revised into negative territory, heightening investors' fears that a recession was under way. The Labor Department will release a revised estimate on Feb. 28.
 ''The December figures underscore that trade will be a major support for growth in the U.S. this year,'' wrote Nigel Gault, an economist at Global Insight, a research firm in Lexington, Mass. ''The strength in trade will dampen the domestic downturn -- and may even be sufficient to keep the U.S. out of recession.''
 Sales of imports faded, dipping 1.1 percent in December after three months of increases. Americans purchased fewer consumer goods, like imported foods and beverages, and sales of foreign cars dropped sharply, falling 9.3 percent for the month. 
 Export sales benefited by a surge in purchases of durable goods, which have a useful life of three years or more. Sales of computer and telecommunications equipment soared, and sales of civilian aircraft were up 33 percent. 
 ''If we're able to sell more goods and services overseas, it means that those export industries can continue to operate, to hire more workers, and provide some fuel for the economy,'' said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, a research firm in Princeton, N.J. 
 But some critics said that jobs provided by export industries could not make up for cutbacks elsewhere.
 ''The $711 billion trade deficit that the U.S. racked up in 2007 represents many thousands of U.S. factories closed and workers laid off,'' said Horace Cooper of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, in a statement.
 Mr. Cooper noted that the manufacturing sector had been battered by job cuts in recent years. ''Huge ongoing trade deficits do not make for a more prosperous America,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A container ship unloading cargo at the Port of Tacoma in Washington. Imports to the United States grew by 5 percent last year, the slowest rate of increase since the 2001 recession.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S. WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Charts show two line graphs for trade deficit and imports and exports from 2006-2007. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (65%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



376 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Union Expects 15,000 to 20,000 G.M. Workers to Take Buyouts

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
The head of the United Automobile Workers union said on Thursday that he expected 15,000 to 20,000 workers to leave General Motors during a new round of buyouts, and that G.M. would replace nearly all of them with lower-paid employees.
 The U.A.W. president, Ron Gettelfinger, said the number of workers who take buyouts would certainly be lower than in 2006, when 34,410 people, about one-third of G.M.'s unionized work force, accepted deals. If 15,000 left in this buyout round, that would be about 20 percent of the 74,000 U.A.W.-represented workers who remain at G.M. 
 About 21,500 G.M. workers have been with the company for at least 30 years. Those workers can elect to take a lump-sum payment of $45,000 or $62,500, depending on their job description, and retire with full benefits. Early-retirement packages also are available, as are cash buyouts of as much as $140,000, for anyone are willing to forgo health care and other benefits.
 ''I'm sure there will be a lot of interest'' in the offers, Mr. Gettelfinger said. But he noted that a weakened economy and falling home prices could make workers more hesitant to give up their paychecks than during G.M.'s original buyout program, even though some of the payment offers are larger this time.
 ''Some people have planned on retiring and leaving the state,'' he said. ''Would you do that right now, knowing what the housing market is? You've got all these factors that weren't there a year and half ago.''
 Mr. Gettelfinger also said some current workers could be dissuaded by former colleagues who have come to regret their decision to leave. ''The people that leave, sometimes they look back on it and think 'It's tougher out here than I thought it would be,' '' he told reporters after accepting an award as the 2007 newsmaker of the year from the Detroit-based Crain's family of business publications.
 While the 2006 buyout program was aimed purely at shrinking G.M.'s work force, this round of offers is primarily focused on opening up jobs so that the company can begin hiring workers at a lower pay scale, which it is allowed to do under the four-year contract signed with the U.A.W. last fall.
 G.M., which said this week that it lost $38.7 billion last year, can hire a maximum of about 16,000 workers into so-called noncore jobs, at wages of $14 to $16 an hour, compared with the $28 an hour that assemblers make now. 
 Including benefits and retiree health care costs, each worker who leaves under the buyout program and is replaced by someone on the lower pay scale would save G.M. about $48 an hour, or nearly $100,000 a year.
 Shelly Lombard, an analyst with Gimme Credit, estimates that the two-tier wage system will save G.M. at least $1 billion a year. If the company does not replace some workers and is able to reduce the number of workers that it must continue to pay, under the contract, after eliminating their jobs, the savings could be even higher, she said.
 ''Its recently negotiated union contract sets the stage for General Motors to do very well once the savings kick in and auto sales recover,'' Ms. Lombard wrote in a note to clients Thursday. ''But with the U.S. auto market swooning and the savings still in the future, the next several quarters are going to be painful.''
 A G.M. spokesman, Dan Flores, declined to comment on how many workers are expected to accept a buyout package or how many of those it would replace. Most workers who take one of the offers will leave by July 1, he said.
 ''We have committed to jointly working with the U.A.W. to implement all elements of the national contract,'' Mr. Flores said. ''We will work in conjunction with the U.A.W. to determine the backfilling requirements as a result of the attrition plan.''
 Meanwhile, workers at the Ford Motor Company have until Tuesday to decide whether they want to take a buyout offer from that automaker. The acceptance rate at Ford is likely to be higher than at G.M., because Ford is offering workers more money (a lump sum of $70,000 for those already eligible to retire) and because the company's finances, which are weaker than G.M.'s, have left many Ford workers less confident about job security.
 Chrysler also is offering more buyouts to its workers, but is doing so by region and individual plants rather than companywide.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers at a General Motors plant making adjustments to vehicles on the assembly line in Janesville, Wis. A weak economy makes it unclear how many employees will accept buyouts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); HOME PRICES (65%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



377 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Millionaires Are a Dime a Dozen

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
THE MIDDLE-CLASS MILLIONAIRE 
 The Rise of the New Rich and How They are Changing America 
 By Russ Alan Prince and Lewis Schiff 
 228 pages. Currency/Doubleday. $23.95. 
 In the planned community of Ladera Ranch, Calif., there are signs asking dog owners to clean up after their pets. It also provides ''mutt mitts'' for this purpose. And in case civic duty doesn't do the trick, Ladera contracts with a company called EntreManure just to come in and pick up the poop. According to the authors of a woefully ill-timed book about runaway American prosperity, delegating this type of job is a triumph of middle-class millionaire spirit.
 Who is the middle-class millionaire? For starters he or she is someone whom Russ Alan Prince and Lewis Schiff, authors of ''The Middle-Class Millionaire,'' would like to flatter. So think of a driven, Machiavellian business dynamo who networks, boasts and cares desperately about propelling his or her children into schools that have names worth dropping. Then put on rose-colored glasses and think of Benjamin Franklin. Seriously. 
 The book returns repeatedly to the Franklin analogy. ''Every turning point in the great man's life story required some deft combination of hard work, personal connections, perseverance in overcoming setbacks, and putting himself first in his financial dealings,'' write the two authors and/or their writing coach. (''After all, coaches are used by the very best athletes and businesspeople, so why not us?'') Together they have taken stock of those winning traits, put them together and defined them as ''millionaire intelligence.'' 
 ''Benjamin Franklin's relentless exercise of his Millionaire Intelligence is largely why he grew rich and why he is remembered long after his death,'' they contend, even though the Declaration of Independence may also have been a factor. In any case, at the bull-market moment when this book went to press, the authors foresaw nothing but a steady rise in self-made business success. ''Imagine an America with 20 million Benjamin Franklins,'' they fantasized. 
 Time has made an anachronism out of some of the happy housing market stories that ''The Middle-Class Millionaire'' tells. About an exemplary developer in Deer Valley, Utah, whose daring they admire, the authors write: ''The only thing that kept him afloat financially was the health of the real estate market at the time. As his own personal home rose in value, he refinanced his mortgage at least three times, using each occasion to pull out more cash to live on.'' And although the book means to celebrate this man's ingenuity in creating a fractionally owned ''residence club'' for skiers, its account of business moxie has taken on the sound of a cautionary tale in the current era of bursting housing bubbles.
 ''The Middle-Class Millionaire'' is about more than the existence of the title's not quite new demographic group. (Mr. Prince is also a co-author of ''Cultivating the Middle-Class Millionaire.'') It's also about that group's set of economic demands. Defining middle-class millionaires as the self-made heads of households worth $1 million to $10 million (including the value of a primary residence), the authors sharply characterize that group. They maintain that the middling rich are more ''referentially influential'' than wealthier millionaires because they mingle and name-drop more. And the true middle class is more conventional and more cautious. But the brash middle-class millionaire is the guy who, on his daily two-hour bike ride, annoys his friends by taking constant phone calls as he pedals. He spends nearly 30 more hours working each week than his middle-class counterpart does. And he believes ''that most problems can be solved with a mix of creative thinking, the right people and an open wallet.''
 This person offers tremendous opportunities to those who know how to accommodate him. If the middle-class millionaire can pay his way to the front of a line, he will. The book abounds in examples of new services created to make him feel important. 
 There are doctors who offer concierge-type medicine; there are life coaches who counsel busy movers and shakers about their priorities. There is a ''360-degree circle of support,'' one that involves lawyers, financial advisers, personal trainers and all manner of assistants, for those willing to subsidize these services. The authors sound very much available for consulting and coaching when they maintain that any busy, rich individual could benefit from such advice.
 What about everyone else? What happens to the patients who can't pay a $20,000 monthly retainer for V.I.P. medical care? ''The Middle-Class Millionaire'' does not overburden itself with those questions. But it adopts the trickle-down theory that a wider public will eventually benefit from such innovations as they become accepted and affordable. The high-end, innovative electric car now being introduced by Tesla Motors, the authors say, will pave the way for more affordable and widely produced versions eventually. But only after middle-class millionaires are finished test-driving and talking about them.
 Among the other examples cited here is that of the private electrical generator, which is becoming increasingly popular in hurricane zones. If the need for these is indisputable (''the collection of chilled wine may go bad''), so is the fact that they were once prohibitively expensive. Now that the generator idea has caught on, the book brightly cites a 60-month financing plan in Boca Raton, Fla., ''with payments starting at $299.'' It should be noted that even when the book was written, 78 percent of middle-class millionaires were ''very or extremely concerned about their ability to maintain their current financial position.''
 The authors themselves seem to have little to worry about in this regard. They are walking embodiments of the middle-class millionaires' self-congratulatory mind-set. Mr. Schiff wrote the popular ''Armchair Millionaire'' and has a Web site by that name. A blurb on the Web site says that that book's investing strategy ''works in good markets and bad,'' even if the blurb happens to come from Mr. Schiff himself. And Mr. Prince is an editor of the magazine Private Wealth: Advising the Exceptionally Affluent and a columnist for Elite Traveler. 
 If this book omits a stupefying chapter on the glories of luxury airplanes, that's not a favor to the reader. It's because Mr. Prince is already an author of ''The Sky's the Limit,'' a whole book about private jets and their owners.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Books of The Times review on Feb. 15 of ''The Middle-Class Millionaire,'' about a new demographic group that can afford expensive new personal services, overstated the cost of concierge-type medicine. Patients pay a retainer of as much as $20,000 a year, not a month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Russ Alan Prince
 Lewis Schiff 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); WRITERS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE (87%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PETS (77%); DOGS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); CHILDREN (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Middle-Class Millionaire, The (Book)>; Middle-Class Millionaire, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



378 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Mistaken Iraq Battle Kills 6 Fighters Allied With U.S.

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER; An Iraqi employee of The New York Times contributed reporting from Salahuddin.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Six members of an Awakening Council, groups composed mostly of Sunni Muslims who have turned against the insurgency, were killed early Thursday after they mistakenly fired on American soldiers in the north, the Iraqi police said.
 The American forces fired back, killing them and two women in nearby houses, the police said. A police commander said the group had thought that the Americans were insurgents. 
 Local American commanders said they could not confirm the episode. But it appeared to underscore the growing danger to Awakening Council members, wedged between United States forces and the insurgent groups many of them once supported, amid a recently begun operation to go after insurgents more aggressively in certain areas. 
 In recent weeks, Sunni extremists have increasingly aimed their attacks at Awakening Council members, killing at least 33 people in car bombings aimed at the groups this week alone. The American military reported Thursday that it had killed 7 insurgents and arrested 16 in north and central Iraq.
 The firefight between American troops and Awakening Council members occurred near the village of Raween in Salahuddin Province, northeast of Baghdad, an area that has remained restive despite a 60 percent decrease in violence in Iraq since last summer, after the United States military increased its troop strength by 30,000 soldiers. 
 Also on Thursday, nine members of the same family -- a couple and their seven children -- were found dead, apparently executed, in their house in Auja, 70 miles south of the firefight with Awakening Council members, in the same province. Auja is the hometown of Saddam Hussein. The children ranged in age from 7 to 17 years.
 Ragi Ali, 25, the brother of the slain father, Labeeb Ali Khatir, 50, said each family member had been shot with one bullet in the head and another in the stomach. He said a note was left, signed in red by Tawhid Wal Jihad, a group that is part of the Sunni insurgency. The family is distantly related to Mr. Hussein and lives next to the cemetery where he was buried after he was executed in December 2006. 
 In Baghdad, a suicide bomber blew up a car at midday on Thursday at a busy market in the Shiite neighborhood of Sadr City. Hospital officials said one person was killed, a 13-year-old boy, though the Ministry of Interior said later that as many as four had died and 33 were wounded. 
 Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the United States military's second in command in Iraq, said Thursday as he was leaving Iraq for a new job in Washington that the recent overall decline in violence was fragile and that the gains needed to be reinforced by political and economic development.
 ''Security is at such a level now, I believe if you can create jobs, if you can develop an economy, if you can get proper leadership, you're going to see another significant drop in violence,'' he told reporters here after a ceremony in which he handed off his command to Lt. Gen. Lloyd Austin III, commander of the 18th Airborne Corps, based in Fort Bragg, N.C. General Austin has served in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
 Gen. David A. Petraeus, the top American commander here, praised General Odierno as one of the chief architects of the increase in American troops that the military says has helped bring about the reduction in violence over the last year. 
 ''He recognized the importance of identifying and separating the 'irreconcilables' -- hard-core Al Qaeda in Iraq -- from the 'reconcilable,' '' General Petraeus said, referring to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, a homegrown Sunni Arab extremist group that American intelligence agencies say is led by foreigners. 
 General Petraeus said General Odierno, who has been named Army vice chief of staff, understood that ''you cannot kill your way out of an insurgency.'' While some critics said early in the war that General Odierno, as a brigade commander, had used overly aggressive tactics, he later encouraged the growth of the Awakening groups and a counterinsurgency strategy in which United States soldiers worked more closely with Iraqis. 
 Iraqi officials said that Iran, without giving any reason, had postponed a series of talks with American officials on improving security in Iraq. The two sides have met three times, most recently in August. The fourth round of talks was scheduled to begin shortly. 
 Iraq also announced that Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, would visit Baghdad on March 2, the first trip from a leader of the Islamic republic. American officials, who accuse Iran of supporting anti-American fighters here, said they wanted to encourage good relations between the nations. 
 In Washington, Gordon D. Johndroe, a White House spokesman, said, ''The fastest way for that to happen is for Iran to stop supporting extremists in Iraq who kill innocent Iraqis and Americans.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As his mother watched, Iraqi medics treated a man wounded Thursday in a bombing in Baghdad's Sadr City neighborhood.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WISSAM AL-OKAILI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); SHOOTINGS (78%); RELIGION (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); JOB CREATION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); HOSPITALS (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); RAY ODIERNO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



379 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Municipalities Feel Pinch as Another Debt Market Falters

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL and VIKAS BAJAJ; Michael M. Grynbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The credit crisis paining Wall Street is reaching out across the nation, afflicting municipalities, hospitals and cultural touchstones like the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
 In recent days another large but obscure corner of the financial world has come under acute stress. Alarmed by the running turmoil in the debt markets, investors have refused to buy certain securities that not long ago many regarded as equivalent to cash.
 Even though the securities are long term, banks hold auctions periodically to set the interest rates. During the last three days, almost 1,000 of these auctions failed because there were not enough buyers. The banks that marketed the instruments, known as auction-rate securities, also declined to buy. 
 The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey now finds itself paying a rate of 20 percent on $100 million of its debt, almost quadruple its costs a week ago. The Metropolitan Museum of Art is now paying 15 percent on auction securities. It is unclear how long such high rates will persist, or when the market for these instruments will revive, if at all.
 ''What is going on here is a credit crunch,'' said G. David MacEwen, chief investment officer for fixed income at American Century Investment, the big mutual fund company. ''And the cost of the credit and the availability of credit even for good borrowers has clearly taken a big hit.''
 The failed auctions are tied to and exacerbating the larger problems in the financial markets. On Thursday, financial stocks led the market down and bond investors drove up mortgage rates. 
 At the top of investors' list of worries are the bond insurers MBIA and the Ambac Financial Group, longtime linchpins of the capital markets. Many fear the insurers, which guarantee interest and principal payments on nearly half of all municipal bonds, will lose their triple-A credit ratings. On Thursday, Moody's Investors Service downgraded the triple-A rating of a smaller insurer, the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company.
 At a daylong hearing on Thursday in Washington, members of the House Financial Services Committee discussed the possibility of a federal bailout for the largest bond insurers, a move the insurers said was not needed.
 The auction-rate securities market, which totals about $330 billion, accounts for a small fraction of the debt sold by municipalities. But this source of financing has suddenly become astronomically expensive, even though the Federal Reserve has cut short-term interest rates to stimulate the economy. The turmoil has heightened worries about how states and towns, particularly poorer ones, will pay their bills as a weakening housing market and potential recession squeeze tax revenues.
 For some communities and government authorities, even a small increase in interest rates -- costs usually measured in hundredths of a percentage point, or basis points -- can hurt. The Port Authority, for example, will have its weekly interest payments on $100 million in auction-rate securities soar to $389,000 from $83,600.
 Other recent casualties in the auction-rate market include universities like Georgetown, student loan providers like the College Loan Corporation, municipalities like Washington, states like Wisconsin and cultural institutions like the de Young Museum in San Francisco. 
 Faced with higher costs, some borrowers are moving to overhaul the variable-rate auction securities. Among the options municipalities are considering are redeeming the bonds, reorganizing them into long-term fixed-rate securities, or turning to banks for alternative financing.
 Wisconsin is moving fast after the rate on some of its $950 million of auction securities jumped to 10 percent this week from 5.2 percent last month. The rate is reset every 28 days. 
 ''We are in the process of replacing some or all of this program with something else,'' said Frank R. Hoadley, Wisconsin's director for capital finance.
 Some borrowers are considering another short-term note called variable-rate demand obligations, which also have their rates reset daily or weekly. Unlike auction-rate securities, the demand obligations are supported by bank letters of credit, which allow buyers to ''put,'' or sell, the bonds to the banks.
 This may have been an easy fix a few weeks ago, but now Wall Street banks have become more reticent to issue such letters, or are demanding higher interest rates, because they do not want to be left holding billions of dollars of these floating-rate bonds.
 ''It is becoming difficult to get letters of credit, and we're trying to avoid paying too much,'' said Sharon A. Dumas, director of the department of finance for the city of Cleveland, whose auctions have been successful but which has had its interest rate climb.
 The problems in the auction-rate market resemble the crisis that hit so-called structured investment vehicles last summer. After a plan brokered by the Treasury Department sputtered, many of the banks ended up taking the SIVs back onto their own books; others SIVs were liquidated. The first sign of trouble in the auction-rate market came in August, when several auctions for bonds backed by mortgage-related securities failed. But much of the market returned to normalcy as big investment banks that underwrite the bonds bid in the auctions to support clients like municipalities and student loan companies. 
 But in recent weeks the investment banks, which have had to write down billions in mortgage-related securities, have scaled back their support of the market.
 Industry officials say much of the auction-rate market is backed by highly rated securities that, broadly speaking, are not experiencing high default rates. Most investors -- even those who have not been able to sell their holdings -- are likely to get their money back, analysts and officials say.
 ''This is not a credit event, it's a liquidity event,'' Jon D. Maier, a Merrill Lynch analyst, wrote in a research note. 
 Mr. Maier was specifically referring to about $63 billion in auction-rate securities that are issued by closed-end funds, which are variations on mutual funds. These funds invest in stocks and bonds and raise money by selling shares and issuing bonds, including auction-rate securities. The funds have also seen auctions fail recently.
 But the dearth of buyers this week that caused interest rates to spike may attract new buyers in coming auctions, especially because investors view issuers of auction-rate securities like the Port Authority and the State of Wisconsin as very safe.
 ''At the end of the day,'' said Cathryn P. Steeves, portfolio manager at Nuveen Investments, ''people will still be willing to buy paper from the Metropolitan Museum of Art at very favorable tax-exempt rates.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Metropolitan Museum of Art is paying 15 percent on some of its debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1)
CHART: Credit Squeeze: The interest rates of a type of municipal debt known as auction-rate securities are set at periodic auctions. But there has been a shortage of buyers recently, which raises their rates, causing financial strain to the debt issuers.(Source: Bloomberg)(pg. C1) Chart details Yield of municipal auction-rate securities within a line graph.
 DRAWING (pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); PORT AUTHORITIES (74%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (64%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (64%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



380 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Profit Down 20%, Marriott Lowers Annual Forecast

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The hotel operator Marriott International said Thursday that its fourth-quarter earnings fell 20 percent, hurt by the closing of its synthetic fuel business. 
 The company, based in Bethesda, Md., also lowered its yearly outlook, based on more modest calculations for its core lodging division. The company said it remained bullish on its long-term growth but warned that a softening economy in the United States could hurt profit in the coming year.
 Marriott said it earned $176 million, or 46 cents a share, down from $220 million, or 52 cents a share, in the 2006 quarter. Revenue rose 7.7 percent, to $4.1 billion.
 Had it not been for the $60 million loss from discontinuing its fuel business at the end of December, Marriott says it would have earned $236 million, or 62 cents a share. The business made cleaner-burning coal for tax credits.
 The adjusted results were in line with analysts polled by Thomson Financial, who had expected fourth-quarter earnings of 62 cents a share on revenue of $4.04 billion. Analysts generally exclude one-time events from their outlooks.
 But Marriott came in short of analysts' full-year expectations and forecast $2 to $2.10 a share in earnings for 2008, instead of the $2.10 to $2.25 a share it forecast in October. Analysts expect 2008 earnings of $2.13 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); LODGING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (96%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



381 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 3416 words

HEADLINE: Art

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 'NINA IN POSITION' Maybe as fallout from last summer's liberatingly eccentric Documenta 12, we've seen a handful of intriguing and enigmatic group shows in New York this season, spun around opaque themes and designed to generate psychic atmosphere. The persuasive ''Nina in Position'' at Artists Space, organized by Jeffrey Uslip, is the latest. The title, characteristically oblique, is a line in the film ''Point of No Return,'' the American remake of ''La Femme Nikita,'' Luc Besson's cult film about assassination, government surveillance and shape-shifting identities, set in a world -- much like our own, Mr. Uslip suggests -- where amorality rules, and nothing is quite what it seems. 
 Pretty little stainless-steel tabletop sculptures by Marco Rios are cast from beefsteaks. A vivid abstract floor piece, below, by Anya Gallaccio isn't all that abstract: it is made of animal blood poured over salt. A Barkley Hendricks photograph of a Ku Klux Klan gathering was shot, not in the deep South, but in the artist's home state, Connecticut. 
 The traces of violence are everywhere. It is in an hourglass-shaped bronze vase by Andrew Lord that was punched rather than molded; in a text piece by Daniel Joseph Martinez that reads, ''I want you to kill me so there will be no more tomorrow''; in an eerie installation by the young New York artist Josh Tonsfeldt that brings an animal bone to life, knocking against the gallery wall like the hand of fate; and in an extraordinary 1988 piece by Haim Steinbach that turns a corner of the show into an elephants' graveyard. 
 There's plenty of bloodless aggression too. Julia Scher turns the gallery into a surveillance zone; Justin Beal pairs corporate logos with biblical quotations. A figure called ''Sleeper'' by Huma Bhabha stands as an impassive, decaying sentinel, guarding nothing, seeing all. 
 Redemptive moments are few and meager. Michelle Lopez unites two sycamore branches in a prosthetic embrace. Mary Kelly turns a sexual dance into a photographic light show. Kellie Barrie (Ms. Kelly's son) creates a self-portrait from a shower of saliva and flour. Finally, Lisa Tan unites nature and nurture with the presence of a large and flourishing houseplant that she adopted, cared for and has propagated into an extended family. 
 What does it all mean? Mr. Uslip's small catalog essay, crammed with ideas, works like all else here, through indirection. In a world where everything is watched, violence is ordinary, and moral decisions go unweighed, confusion may be the most effective weapon art has. (Through March 29, Artists Space, 38 Greene Street, SoHo, 212-226-3970, artistsspace.org.) HOLLAND COTTER 
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Art Fairs
 NATIONAL BLACK FINE ART SHOW The 12th edition of this art fair is in progress this weekend in the Puck Building. There, 38 galleries and dealers from the United States, Canada, the Caribbean and Europe exhibit old and up-to-the-minute work that directly or indirectly addresses the question of what ''black'' in art means. Hours: Friday, noon to 8 p.m.; Saturday, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. At 295 Lafayette Street, at Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 925-5257, blackfineartshow.com. Admission: $15; $10 for students. (Holland Cotter)
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'GILDED LIONS AND JEWELED HORSES: THE SYNAGOGUE TO THE CAROUSEL,' through March 23. Skills and motifs used in sacred art resurface in a surprisingly secular place: the carousel. In this exhibition, models of elaborate wooden synagogues and photographs of Jewish cemeteries with intricately carved gravestones in Eastern Europe are alongside paper cuts, which look like giant, precision-cut snowflakes mounted on colored paper. The lineage from synagogue to carousel is made explicit in a display that juxtaposes carved Torah arks with carousel horses fashioned in the baroque Coney Island Style. The show is also a great immigrant story in which skills learned in the shtetls of Europe made their way to the New World and, for a brief moment, flourished. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. 
 (Martha Schwendener) 
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'ART DOES NOT EQUAL LIFE: ACTIONS BY ARTISTS OF THE AMERICAS, 1960-2000,' through May 18. The redefinition of modernism(s) through the illumination of its Latin American manifestations has been one of the joys of the current New York art season. This revelatory addition concentrates on the Happenings, Conceptual and Performance Art and Body Art and video that thrived in Latin America despite, or in response to, dire political and economic situations. With photographic and video documentation in the majority, the toughness and scope of the material, aided by a thoughtful installation, create their own fascination. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org . (Roberta Smith) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: ''ARCHIVE FEVER: USES OF THE DOCUMENT IN CONTEMPORARY ART,'' through May 4. You need no grounding in art theory to get the messages generated by this powerful brain-pincher of a theme show. The archive of the title is less a thing or a place than a concept, an immersive environment: the sum total of documentary images, mostly photographic, circulating in the culture, on the street, in the media and finally in what is called the collective memory. From an Andy Warhol silkscreen of a black civil rights demonstrator attacked by police dogs, to a gallery wallpapered with the front pages of international newspapers reporting on the destruction of the twin towers, truth, untruth and their consequences make up the riveting story here. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0045, icp.org. (Cotter)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'THE COLLECTIONS OF BARBARA BLOOM,' through May 4. Instead of the walk-in installations for which Ms. Bloom is best known, this survey displays pieces from different phases of her career as discrete works of sculpture, assemblage, collage, photography and design. This is confusing, but attentive viewers will profit from studying Ms. Bloom's ideologically subversive, dryly humorous and formally inventive play with many different forms of representation, from faux-antique plaster self-portrait busts to a found-object sculpture in the form of a Braille edition of Playboy magazine. See above. (Ken Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ETERNAL ANCESTORS: THE ART OF THE CENTRAL AFRICAN RELIQUARY,' through March 2. Sure to be one of the sleepers of the fall art season, this beautiful show has a universal theme: life as a cosmic journey homeward, with parental spirits, embodied in charismatic materials and images, counseling and chiding us every step of the way. European, Asian and African reliquaries sit side by side in the first gallery; then some of the world's greatest Fang and Kota sculptures take over and sweep through to the end. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter) THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'JASPER JOHNS: GRAY,' through May 4. Since his paintings of targets and American flags took the art world by storm 50 years ago, Jasper Johns has been a cultural fact and the subject of numerous museum exhibitions. But this is one of the best. Moody, opulent and eloquent, it singles out the artist's many paintings in gray, the color at the core of his sensibility, along with numerous sculptures, drawings and prints that are inherently gray. Together they chronicle his maturation from brilliant, methodical young artist to a deeper, more lyrical, less predictable one. And frankly, it is almost a relief to follow the incessant unfolding of this singular career without the brightly colored, better-known masterpieces. See above. (Smith)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'MICHELANGELO, VASARI AND THEIR CONTEMPORARIES: DRAWINGS FROM THE UFFIZI,' through April 20. Michelangelo, with a couple of spectacular drawings, is the marquee name here, but many of the 16th-century Florentine artists he influenced fill the space, beginning with the extreme polymath Giorgio Vasari. A handful of drawings by Pontormo and Rosso Fiorentino will knock your socks off, as will work by a few less familiar artists, all working to make the Medici rulers of Florence look good. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'NEW PERSPECTIVES IN LATIN AMERICAN ART, 1930-2006: SELECTIONS FROM A DECADE OF ACQUISITIONS,' through Feb. 25. Collecting Latin American art is a long-standing tradition at MoMA, but it languished a bit in the 1960s and '70s. These recent acquisitions attest to its resurgence in the '90s, with a shift toward various forms of Constructivist-based abstraction that emerged from that region, starting in the postwar period. Unusually oriented toward the body in its emphasis on optical perception and the possibility of function, these selections set the stage for subsequent generations of artists, many of whom are also represented here. The postwar works are especially exceptional, and historically important, but the choices throughout are for the most part excellent. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PICTURING NEW YORK: THE ART OF YVONNE JACQUETTE AND RUDY BURCKHARDT,' through April 13 (Burckhardt); through May 4 (Jacquette). This dual exhibition displays photographs by Burckhardt, who died at 85 in 1999, alongside paintings by Ms. Jacquette, his widow and 20 years his junior, who is still working. Burckhardt's black-and-white images approach the city from several angles, descending from rooftops to street level and even into the subways. Ms. Jacquette's works peer down into the canyons between high-rises. This pair of shows does not establish either artist as an unjustly overlooked talent, but it reveals the competing visions of the city behind a romantic and creative partnership. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. 
 (Karen Rosenberg)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'GUSTAV KLIMT: THE RONALD S. LAUDER AND SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTIONS,' through June 30. The first New York museum show devoted exclusively to this Viennese master is less a coherent Klimt exhibition than a Klimt-o-rama. The main draw is a veritable retrospective of the drawings, erotic and otherwise, and a smattering of paintings starring the new-in-town, gold-on-gold ''Adele Bloch-Bauer I.'' Also here: a photo mural of sections of Klimt's most famous painted mural, the ''Beethoven Frieze''; a period room; photographs and personal effects, including one of the artist's signature caftans; and piped-in music, all written in Vienna of course, and available for purchase on CD. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'KORI NEWKIRK: 1997-2007,' through March 9. Kori Newkirk first came to New York's attention in the 2001 group show ''Freestyle'' at the Studio Museum. This Bronx-born artist, based in Los Angeles, is now having a solo at the museum, organized by its director and chief curator, Thelma Golden. This 10-year survey devotes plenty of room -- nearly the entire double-height main gallery -- to the shimmering pony-bead curtains for which Mr. Newkirk is best known. It also finds him pursuing more oblique forms of expression, particularly in his recent forays into video. It all adds up to a kind of maxed-out minimalism or, as Mr. Newkirk has described it, a ''ghetto-fabulous conceptualism.'' 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
 LARRY POONS: 'THROW, POUR, DRIP, SPILL & SPLASH' When they were made -- with paint thrown at or poured down vertical canvases -- 30 years ago, these paintings seemed to thumb their noses at the Minimalists and the Color Field painters alike. Today their heavy downpours and feathery splashes look implacable, extravagantly rich in color and surface and slightly mad, like wilding Pollocks made with Monet in mind. Jacobson Howard, 33 East 68th Street, (212) 570-2362, jacobsonhoward.com, through Feb. 25. (Smith)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 RACKSTRAW DOWNES Working on location, Mr. Downes paints subjects that would seem mundane, drab or sadly desolate by calendar-art standards: street scenes in Brooklyn with subway bridges looming overhead and an abandoned racetrack in the Texas desert, for example. But he paints them so attentively and with such a lovingly sensuous touch that the resultant images have a breath-taking lucidity. They project an infectious, spiritually gratifying feeling of being extraordinarily alive to the moment. Betty Cunningham Gallery, 541 West 25th Street. (212) 242-2772, bettycunninghamgallery.com., through March 1. (Johnson)
 CHRIS MARTIN This painter, an underground favorite, works in the gap between the comical and the visionary, enlivening his colorful, sometimes boisterous works with plastic foam discs, collaged paper and casual construction. As much objects as paintings, they reflect the synthesis of multiple cultural sources and exude a formal ease and indifference to refinement that translate into something like real-life tolerance and wisdom. Mitchell Innes & Nash, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 744-7400, miandn.com, through March 1. (Smith)
 'MIRROR MIRROR' This exhibition of fine antique mirrors and contemporary artworks relating to mirrors offers no systematic theory of what mirrors mean to us, but it gives pause for philosophical rumination. Old mirror styles range from florid, gold-leafed Spanish Colonial to a 1970s vintage circular mirror framed in jellylike bands of green and red Murano glass. Artists include Richard Artschwager, Cindy Sherman and Douglas Gordon. Edward Thorp Gallery, 210 11th Avenue, at 25th Street, (212) 691-6565, edwardthorpgallery.com, through Feb. 23. (Johnson)
 SHIRIN NESHAT Two doleful magic realist videos by Ms. Neshat are based on characters and events in ''Women Without Men,'' a novel by the Iranian writer Shahrnush Parsipur. ''Munis'' focuses on a young woman who dives off a high roof and, in a post-suicide dream, participates in an anti-Shah demonstration that is crushed by soldiers. In ''Faezeh'' a teenage girl dreams of being raped by unidentified men in a forest. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com, through Feb. 23. (Johnson)
 SARAH PICKERING: 'FIRE SCENE' As an artist in residence at the Fire Service College in Moreton-in-Marsh, England, from 2006 to 2007, Sarah Pickering took pictures of ''burn units,'' set-dressed interiors set on fire to educate forensic teams and crime scene investigators. The blazes in these photographs provoke an immediate adrenaline response. More interesting, however, is the carefully orchestrated clutter of the imaginary households. In ''Electric Radiator,'' a space heater brushes up against a chintz sofa; in ''Makeshift Cooking,'' a similar device is being used to warm a teakettle. It all amounts to a broken-windows theory of disorder as the root of disaster. Daniel Cooney Fine Art, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 255-8158, danielcooneyfineart.com, through March 15. (Rosenberg)
 Galleries: Other
 JUDIT REIGL Born in Budapest in 1923, Ms. Reigl fled Hungary in 1950 for Paris. There her fantastic figurative work caught the eye of Andre Breton. But Surrealism held little interest for her, and she moved on to do remarkable series of abstract paintings, changing her style to avoid settling into a routine. The examples in this small, beautiful survey run through the 1970s, and they document a career that fruitfully took alternative paths every step of the way. Janos Gat Gallery, 195 Bowery, at Spring Street, Lower East Side, (212) 677-3525, janosgatgallery.com, through March 1. (Cotter)
 Last Chance
 'ACCIDENTAL MODERNISM' As its title suggests, this exhibition meditates on the role of chance in art -- such meditation being a basic strategy, at least since the first collage. The distinctions between accident, randomness and decay are explored in works by Rudolf Stingel, Keith Tyson, Adam McEwen, Josh Smith, Dieter Roth, Ann Craven and Bill Morrison. Exercising the utmost control, Robert Watts and Richard Pettibone pay homage to Marcel Duchamp, the prime mover of chance. Leslie Tonkonow Artworks & Projects, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-8450, tonkonow.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 NORIKO FURUNISH: ICE PARK The large black-and-white photographs here offer a perfectly pleasant addition to the growing genre of large, digitally manipulated images in which space loses it logic, and vast, often gorgeous landscapes become startlingly larger, and more gorgeous, once you spot the tiny human figures that occupy them. In Ms. Furunishi's case, there is the added charm of evoking Chinese landscape painting. Murray Guy, 453 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-7372, murrayguy.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 JONAH GROENEBOER: 'THE MEASURE'Jonah Groeneboer's string installations aspire to represent hypercubes, tesseracts and concepts from quantum physics. In the main room a knotted installation suggests a more orderly version of Duchamp's ''Mile of String.'' Taut lengths of gold and silver string attached to the walls and ceiling evoke a perspective drawing with multiple vanishing points. In the project room the strings of another piece (also untitled) exude a laserlike glow against black walls. The art world's infatuation with the fourth dimension is at least as old as Cubism, but Mr. Groeneboer makes it look new again. Bellwether, 134 10th Avenue, at 18th Street, (212) 929-5959, bellwethergallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Rosenberg)
 MEIRO KOISUMI/ALEX HUBBARD In these nicely complementary solo shows, two very different artists wreak havoc on video. Mr. Hubbard's version is at the expense of the everyday objects with which he ''performs'' the making of painting and sculpture. In contrast, the promising Mr. Koisumi, who is making his solo debut, explores the human capacity for humiliation through harmless yet disturbing manipulations of complete strangers . Nicole Klagsbrun, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-3335, nicoleklagsbrun.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 RUBIN MUSEUM OF ART: 'BHUTAN, THE SACRED WITHIN: PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENRO IZU,' These black-and-white portraits and landscapes, taken over the past five years, fall somewhere between photojournalism and pictorialism. Mr. Izu has not only made an earnest attempt to document the rarefied air of the Himalayas and the spiritual intensity of the Bhutanese; he has also enhanced them through a sensual printing process. Mr. Izu contends with a custom-made 300-pound camera that he brings on steep treks through the Himalayas. After printing from 14-by-20-inch negatives, he brushes on a coat of carbon pigment or platinum or palladium. The results have a satiny richness that somehow seem ephemeral. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org, closes on Tuesday. 
 (Rosenberg)
 BERTIEN VAN MANEN: 'A HUNDRED SUMMERS, A HUNDRED WINTERS' Traveling through the former Soviet Union between 1990 and 1994, the Dutch photographer Bertien van Manen used an automatic camera to snap pictures of people in and around their homes. The photographs were collected in a book with the same title as this show (it is now out of print), but they were never exhibited in New York. Viewed today, her portrait of a society in transition is a welcome counterpoint to the oligarch-dominated public image of the New Russia. Ms. van Manen may have undertaken her journey in the spirit of Robert Frank, but the seductive proximity of her photographs is more reminiscent of Nan Goldin. Yancey Richardson, 535 West 22nd Street, (646) 230-9610, yanceyrichardson.com; closes on Saturday. (Rosenberg)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'TELEVISION DELIVERS PEOPLE,' This show of single-channel video works, which takes its title from a 1973 piece by Richard Serra, tries to put in perspective the cultural changes wrought by the DVR, YouTube and, more recently, the writers' strike. It runs close to four hours (two and a half on a projection screen and another hour or so on a series of television monitors), and combines television-obsessed works from the 1970s, '80s and '90s with material from young artists like Ryan Trecartin and Kalup Linzy, for whom the ''idiot box'' is just one of many interactive screens. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org; closes on Sunday. 
 (Rosenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); FILM (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



382 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths LEE, MORRIS, R

 BODY:
 LEE--Morris, R. The Board of Directors of the HIP Health Plan of New York is deeply saddened by the death of Morris R. Lee, a friend and colleague, after a brief illness. He was 77 years old and resided in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. We will miss his sound advice and cheerful personality in service to the board and to HIP members since 1991. He was born and raised in Tuscaloosa. After serving in the United States Air Force for 10 years, Mr. Lee and his family came to New York and settled in Cambria Heights, Queens, NY in 1968. He earned a B.A. and Masters Degree in economics from Queens College. Mr. Lee served on the board of the Health Systems Agency of New York City. Active in many community activities, He was a founding member of the Cambria Heights Kiwanis Club; served as treasurer of the Queens County Overall Economic Development Corporation; vice president of Community Planning Board # 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (85%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



383 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'WACK!:'; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Striking When the Spirit Was Hot

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
''WACK!: Art and the Feminist Revolution'' is a big, messy, fascinating scrapbook of a show. It doesn't instruct or admonish us about gender and politics; rather, it haphazardly tells a story about freedom and possibility. The quality is uneven, but the overall effect is exciting. It takes you back to a heady time when female artists were throwing out old, patriarchal rules and reinventing art in all kinds of idiosyncratic and sometimes dangerously extreme terms. 
 The show, at P.S. 1 in Queens, was organized by Cornelia Butler, a former curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, where it opened last March. (Ms. Butler is now the chief curator of drawings at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.) Focusing on the years from the mid-1960s to the early 1980s, when feminism had its most transforming impact on contemporary art, it presents a bewildering abundance of paintings, drawings, photographs, videos, sculpture, installations and other kinds of work by 120 artists and artist groups from North and South America, Europe, Asia, Australia and New Zealand. 
 The title ''WACK!'' is in some ways misleading. While it catches the exuberantly liberated and liberating spirit of many of the artists, it implies a militancy that the show does not bear out. The title plays on the acronyms for historical feminist groups like Women's Action Coalition (WAC) and Women Artists in Revolution (WAR). There is much work that you would not immediately identify as programmatically feminist: the portraits by Alice Neel, for example, who was as much a big-hearted humanist as a feisty feminist; the elegantly fantastic wearable sculptures by Rebecca Horn, shown in a video projection; and Helena Almeida's spatially confounding photographs of herself as she applies paint to a mirror. 
 The subtitle, ''Art and the Feminist Revolution,'' is more accurate. The show does not focus on feminist art per se so much as it explores what feminism freed female artists to do.
 And what some women felt freed to do could be pretty far out. The French performance artist Orlan has undergone multiple cosmetic surgeries to make herself a living critique of conventional fantasies of female beauty. Cosey Fanni Tutti, a co-founder of the British punk band Throbbing Gristle, offers her work as a model in pornographic magazines and a performer in X-rated movies as an interventionist art designed to expose the marketing mechanisms and ideologies of the sexual entertainment industry. 
 It was not only feminism that inspired Cosey Fanni Tutti and others like Carolee Schneeman, Barbara T. Smith and Yoko Ono to assail boundaries of mainstream taste and sensibility. The rise of feminism coincided with a breakdown of traditional artistic parameters across the board in the 1960s and early '70s, and it is not always clear whether certain provocative activities are animated primarily by feminist or by other avant-gardist intentions. See, for instance, the documentary photographs of the Fluxus artist Shigeko Kubota squatting to perform ''Vaginal Painting,'' using a brush attached to the crotch of her underwear. 
 Taking ''WACK!'' as your guide, you might say that feminism's greatest effect was not to convert the art world to a new ideological doctrine so much as to help open the floodgates to a democratic pluralism. 
 Feminist theory tells us that the artistic standards prevailing at any given time and place have more to do with the interests of the people in power than with any supposed universal aesthetic values. Feminism prompted artists to wonder why certain forms -- like big, welded-steel abstract sculptures -- should be considered more important than, say, ceramics or weaving, which are traditionally seen as women's work. Viewed in this light, some of the exhibition's seemingly milder works may be among the most revolutionary.
 Consider two artists paired in one of the exhibition's many rooms. Spread across three walls are overtly ideological collages by Martha Rosler in which images of women and women's body parts from soft-porn magazines mix with other sorts of commercial imagery and with photographic images from the Vietnam War. 
 Meanwhile, an alcove constructed in the room contains a walk-in ''Crocheted Environment,'' a 1972 work by Faith Wilding that was recreated in 1995, in which a zanily patterned, encompassing network of rope and white yarn gives the impression of a web spun by a spider on LSD.
 Where Ms. Rosler's works exert a fervent but predictable didacticism, Ms. Wilding's environment conveys an infectious unorthodoxy, a relief from the hierarchical rule of modernist aesthetics over previous decades. 
 That sense of possibility is felt on a big scale in a room constructed out of more than 100 mattresses by the Argentine artist Marta Minujin and more intimately in the insouciant abstract paintings of Mary Heilmann and the Islamic-style pattern painting of Joyce Kozloff. The quirky, mock-celebratory relief sculptures of Ree Morton mischievously undermine patriarchal propriety, while slide projections by Katharina Sieverding, in which the artist's face and the face of a man are repeatedly layered, exude a weird, unsettling surrealism.
 Women still do not have an equal share in the political and economic power of the art world, which is curious, because if you consider the spectrum of art being made by men and women today, you have to believe that the kind of feminism represented by ''WACK!'' -- anarchic, anti-hierarchical, generously pluralistic -- has succeeded, for better or worse, beyond anyone's wildest dreams. 
 ''WACK!: Art and the Feminist Revolution'' is on view through May 12 at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens; (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Pintura Habitada (Inhabited Painting),'' 1975, by Helena Almeida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLLECTION BANCO PRIVADO)
 ''Nature Girls (Jumping Janes)'' by Martha Rosler in a photomontage series made from 1966 to 1972. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTHA ROSLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); FILM (89%); PORNOGRAPHY (88%); WOMEN (78%); PAINTING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); POP & ROCK (60%); MOVIE RATINGS (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (57%) AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (78%); EUROPE (70%); ASIA (70%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008



384 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: State to Preserve Heart of Adirondacks

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
State environmental officials agreed on Thursday to preserve a vast swath of wild acreage in the northern part of Adirondack Park, using a combination of outright purchase and conservation easements meant to protect both wilderness and jobs. 
 The deal was praised by environmental groups, which had urged the state to act quickly to gain control of most of the 161,000 acres that the Nature Conservancy acquired from a paper company last year. The land is considered crucial to protecting the heart of the Adirondacks.
 Local leaders in the Adirondacks, who have been concerned about land conservation crowding out economic opportunity, will have several months to approve or reject the plan. 
 As laid out by state officials in meetings with local officials and environmental groups on Thursday, New York State will buy more than 57,000 acres that had been owned by Finch, Pruyn & Company since the Civil War and add it to the existing forest preserve, which is off limits to development or timber cutting but open for public recreation. 
 In addition, the state will buy conservation easements on 74,000 more acres of woodlands formerly owned by Finch, Pruyn (pronounced PRINE) and now controlled by the conservancy. 
 The easements prohibit development but allow recreation and logging under strict sustainable forestry standards. The conservancy expects to sell the land with the easements attached to private timber management companies, which would provide wood pulp to the paper mill in Glens Falls, formerly owned by Finch, Pruyn.
 ''We were hoping a little more land would go into the forest preserve, but it appears that they have protected the most environmentally sensitive areas, namely Boreas Ponds, the Essex chain of lakes and the Hudson River Gorge,'' said John Sheehan, a spokesman for the Adirondack Council, a private group. 
 Pete Grannis, commissioner of the Department of Environmental Conservation, said he felt confident that the agreement would safeguard ''all the truly precious pieces of property'' that were available in the huge tract. 
 In all, the state is committing to protect about 130,000 of the 161,000 acres of Finch, Pruyn land that was acquired in a complex $110 million deal last July by the Nature Conservancy with the help of the Open Space Institute. 
 Mr. Grannis said the state was having the property appraised to determine how much it should pay for it, probably using money from the state's Environmental Protection Fund. The Nature Conservancy has begun a $35 million fund-raising drive, suggesting that it expects the state to provide $70 million to $80 million for its purchases and easements.
 The conservancy would pay taxes on the land until the deal with the state was complete. The state would then pay the taxes. 
 One sticky issue in the transaction is what to do with hundreds of private hunting and fishing clubs that have leased their land -- sometimes covering thousands of rural acres -- from Finch, Pruyn for generations. 
 Eleven clubs that lease nearly 40,000 acres where the state intends to buy conservation easements would be permitted to continue leasing their properties, said Michael T. Carr, executive director of the Adirondack chapter of the Nature Conservancy. 
 Twenty other clubs, whose land is entirely within the proposed forest preserve, would have a 10-year transition period during which they would gradually have to share their land with the public. At the end of 10 years, they would have to give up their leases, and their land would revert to public ownership and use.
 Another controversial aspect of the plan would connect existing snowmobile trails to create a network linking North Hudson, Newcomb, Long Lake, Minerva and Indian Lake, the five towns where most of the 134,000 acres of the northern holdings are situated. 
 Mr. Grannis said that some environmental groups have already expressed opposition to the expanded trail network, but that the project would benefit the five rural towns. 
 ''These trails and the network of support services and businesses that go along with having lots and lots of people visiting us have a huge potential for building and sustaining economic interest in the area,'' Mr. Grannis said. 
 The plan would also make available 1,000 acres for ball fields and other public recreational use, along with affordable housing. 
 In the southern part of the park, 27,000 acres of undeveloped land are scattered through 22 towns. The land was previously owned by Finch, Pruyn, but it is not included in the present proposal. Mr. Carr said he intended to continue negotiating with the towns to determine the best way to handle the additional tracts of land. 

GRAPHIC: MAP: Thousands of acres are being set aside for public recreation. Map showing the northern part of Adirondack Park. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (92%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (91%); LAND USE PLANNING (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); PLANT CONSERVATION (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LAKES (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (76%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); APPROVALS (73%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PAPER MILLS (71%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (71%); SPORT FISHING (67%); PULP INDUSTRY (65%); FUNDRAISING (60%)

COMPANY: FINCH PRUYN & CO INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (84%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



385 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Deriding Rebates, Mayor Still Talks Like a Candidate

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg ridiculed the federal government's rebate checks as being ''like giving a drink to an alcoholic'' on Thursday, and said that presidential candidates were looking for easy solutions to complex economic problems. 
 The mayor also said the nation ''has a balance sheet that's starting to look more and more like a third-world country.''
 President George W. Bush signed legislation on Wednesday that will result in cash rebates ranging from $300 to $1,200 for more than 130 million people. The federal checks are the centerpiece of the government's emergency effort to stimulate the economy.
 Mr. Bloomberg has repeatedly said that he is not a candidate, and explained recently he is speaking out on national issues as part of an ''experiment'' to influence the dialogue in the race.
 His criticism of the candidates and the economic stimulus package on Thursday began when he was asked how that experiment is going.
 In his answer, he praised Senator Barack Obama for the plan he outlined on to rebuild highways, bridges, airports and other public projects. 
 Last month, Mr. Bloomberg and Govs. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California and Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania announced a coalition that would urge more investment in infrastructure.
 ''I don't know whether Senator Obama looked to see what I've been advocating, or not you'll have to ask him but he's doing the right thing,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
 But then he went on to say that while the presidential candidates appeared to be talking more about the economy now, they were looking for quick fixes to please voters instead of focusing on the roots of the problem.
 ''Nobody wants to sit there and say, 'Well there's no easy solution,' '' Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 ''They want to send out a check to everybody to stimulate the economy. I suppose it won't hurt the economy but it's in many senses like giving a drink to an alcoholic.''
 A spokesman for the mayor said later that Mr. Bloomberg was trying to say Washington can't stop itself from spending, and was not insinuating that Americans who receive checks are part of the problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); SALES REBATES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); ED RENDELL (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



386 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: Architect's Plans Scrapped

BYLINE: Compiled by LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

 BODY:
Plans for a London building designed by the Pritzker Prize-winning, Baghdad-born architect Zaha Hadid have been dropped as a result of the credit crunch that began with the subprime mortgage collapse. The building was to have been the first permanent one in Britain by Ms. Hadid, who is known for bold, unconventional forms and was chosen last month to design the Eli and Edythe Broad Art Museum at Michigan State University in East Lansing. The $10 million London structure, scheduled for completion in July 2009, was to have served as headquarters for the Architecture Foundation. The Evening Standard in London reported that senior members of the foundation said they were unable to guarantee sufficient money from donors to cover the costs because of ''economic nervousness'' and a stock market slump. Ms. Hadid called the decision ''disappointing.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (86%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



387 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 Ethnic Divisions Resurge As Kenya Violence Falls
 Kenya, once considered one of the most promising countries in Africa, is in the throes of ethnically segregating itself in the wake of a deeply flawed election and the resulting wave of ethnic and political violence. A1 
 On the eve of a planned trip to Africa, President Bush thrust himself into the role of peacemaker, as his plans to promote American efforts against poverty gave way to addressing the violence and turmoil on the continent. A11 
 Putin Describes Future Power
 President Vladimir V. Putin said he intended to wield substantial power in the Kremlin after leaving office next month and becoming Russia's prime minister. A3 
 Hezbollah Threatens Israel
 Accusing Israel of killing one of his top commanders, Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah, threatened to intensify his group's conflict with Israel and to retaliate against Israeli targets anywhere in the world. A6 
 Mistaken Battle Kills 6 Iraqis
 Six members of an Awakening Council, Iraqi groups composed mostly of Sunni Muslims who have turned against the insurgency, were killed after they mistakenly fired on American soldiers in the north, the Iraqi police said. A8 
 U.S. to Share Iran Evidence
 The Bush administration has agreed to turn over to international inspectors intelligence data that it says proves Iran worked on developing a nuclear weapon, according to American and foreign diplomats. A9 
 NATIONALA12-20
 U.S. to Try to Shoot Down A Faulty Spy Satellite
 The military will try to shoot down a doomed spy satellite the size of a school bus before it tumbles uncontrollably back to earth with toxic fuel aboard, senior officials said.A1 
 6 Killed on Illinois Campus
 A gunman opened fire in a lecture hall at Northern Illinois University, killing five people and wounding many others before killing himself.A1
 Clinton Backer Tilts to Obama
 Representative John Lewis, left, an elder statesman from the civil rights era and one of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's most prominent black supporters, said Thursday night that he planned to cast his vote as a superdelegate for Senator Barack Obama in hopes of preventing a fight at the Democratic convention.A1
 Mitt Romney endorsed his former archrival Senator John McCain.A19
 Warnings Don't Sway House
 The House broke for a week's recess without renewing terrorist surveillance authority demanded by President Bush.A17
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 Like Home, Light Years Away
 Astronomers said they had found a smaller version of our own solar system 5,000 light years across the galaxy.A20
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-8
 Man Is Interviewed In Therapist's Death
 The investigation into the killing of an Upper East Side therapist led detectives to interview a Pennsylvania man who recently traded e-mail messages and telephone calls with her, but he was allowed to leave after eight hours, officials said. B1
 New Story Given in Killing
 A former construction worker told a judge in Manhattan that he killed the actress Adrienne Shelly in November 2006 in the course of a robbery, not over a noise dispute as he had earlier claimed. B1
 BUSINESS DAYC1-10 
 More Economic Worries
 With the credit markets deteriorating, the nation's top two economic policy makers acknowledged that the outlook had worsened, as both came under criticism for failing to act boldly enough. A1 
 Some Housing Holds Up
 Real estate these days is a tale of two Americas. The big-city markets have given way to big drops in prices and sales volume. But in small cities, there is evidence that suggests the market is holding up. C1 
 Fearing Once-Safe Bonds
 Many investors alarmed by the turmoil in the debt markets have refused to buy securities that not long ago were regarded as the equivalent to cash. As a result, state governments are having to pay more for debt. C1 
 Business DigestC2 
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: Show us the money; FEMA's formaldehyde foul-up; a crime-fighting opportunity; the wake-up flight of a wayward B-52.
 Columns: Paul Krugman and David Brooks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (87%); SHOOTINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); SUPERDELEGATES (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (71%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); RELIGION (67%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%); POLICE FORCES (66%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (64%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (63%); CIVIL RIGHTS (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN LEWIS (57%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); HASSAN NASRALLAH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (94%); AFRICA (94%); IRAQ (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



388 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: House Leaves Surveillance Law to Expire

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Eric Lichtblau contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House broke for a week's recess Thursday without renewing terrorist surveillance authority demanded by President Bush, leading him to warn of risky intelligence gaps while Democrats accused him of reckless fear mongering.
 The refusal of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, to schedule a vote on a surveillance measure approved Tuesday by the Senate touched off an intense partisan conflict over the national security questions that have colored federal elections since 2002 and are likely to play a significant role again in November.
 Trying to put pressure on Democrats, Mr. Bush offered to delay a trip to Africa to resolve the dispute and warned that failure to extend the expanded power under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which expires Saturday, could hamper efforts to track terrorists. 
 ''Our intelligence professionals are working day and night to keep us safe,'' Mr. Bush said, ''and they're waiting to see whether Congress will give them the tools they need to succeed or tie their hands by failing to act.'' 
 But Ms. Pelosi and other House Democrats said Mr. Bush and Congressional Republicans were at fault because they had resisted temporarily extending the bill to allow disagreements to be worked out. Democrats would not be bullied into approving a measure they considered flawed, she said.
 ''The president knows full well that he has all the authority he needs to protect the American people,'' said Ms. Pelosi, who then referred to President Franklin D. Roosevelt's admonition about fearing only fear itself. ''President Bush tells the American people that he has nothing to offer but fear, and I'm afraid that his fear-mongering of this bill is not constructive.''
 The decision by the House Democratic leadership to let the law lapse is the greatest challenge to Mr. Bush on a major national security issue since the Democrats took control of Congress last year.
 Last summer, Democrats allowed the surveillance law to be put in place for six months although many of them opposed it. They have also relented in fights over spending on the Iraq war under White House pressure. But with Mr. Bush rated low in public opinion polls as he enters the last months of his presidency, Democrats are showing more willingness to challenge him. 
 Republicans say House Democrats are taking a risk, especially in light of the strong bipartisan Senate vote for the bill.
 ''They can't pass a Mother's Day resolution and got 68 votes for this bill,'' said Representative Adam H. Putnam of Florida, chairman of the House Republican Conference.
 The battle over the surveillance bill was also tangled up in the rancor over a House vote to hold in contempt Joshua B. Bolten, the White House chief of staff, and Harriet E. Miers, the former White House counsel, for refusing to testify about the firing of United States attorneys. Republicans said the House was devoting time to that issue when it could be considering the surveillance program, and they staged a walkout in protest.
 The main sticking point is a provision in the Senate bill that provides legal immunity for telecommunications companies that, at the Bush administration's request, cooperated in providing private data after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Many House Democrats oppose that immunity.
 Surveillance efforts will not cease when the law lapses. Administration intelligence officials said agencies would be able to continue eavesdropping on targets that have already been approved for a year after the initial authorization. But they said any new targets would have to go through the more burdensome standards in place before last August, which would require that they establish probable cause that an international target is connected to a terrorist group. 
 Intelligence officials also told reporters Thursday that they were worried that telecommunications companies would be less willing to cooperate in future wiretapping unless they were given immunity.
 Ben Powell, general counsel for the director of national intelligence's office, said some carriers had already asked whether they could be compelled to cooperate even without legal protection, although he indicated that none had actually threatened to halt operations.
 Ms. Pelosi said that she believed that the differences could be resolved within three weeks and that she had told the chairmen of the House Intelligence and Judiciary Committees to work with their counterparts in the Senate to seek a compromise.
 Congressional Republicans sharply criticized Democrats for not moving on the final measure. 
 ''I think there is probably joy throughout the terrorist cells throughout the world that the United States Congress did not do its duty today,'' said Representative Ted Poe, Republican of Texas.
 Democrats said Republicans, struggling politically, were trying to create an air of crisis.
 ''This is a manufactured political crisis,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat. ''They want something to put in front of the American people to take their minds off the state of the economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ESPIONAGE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); ADAM PUTNAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



389 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Turmoil in Africa Alters Focus of Bush's 5-Nation Tour

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
On the eve of a planned trip to Africa, President Bush thrust himself into the role of peacemaker on Thursday, as his plans to promote American efforts against poverty and disease gave way to a more pressing imperative: addressing the violence and turmoil on the continent.
 Mr. Bush injected his administration directly into the political crisis in Kenya, calling for a ''full return to democracy'' and announcing that he would send Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice there to ''deliver a message directly to Kenya's leaders.'' Ms. Rice will not have far to go; she and the president will be right next door, in Tanzania.
 The six-day, five-country Africa tour would be one of a string of foreign trips, to Eastern Europe, Israel, Japan and China, that will keep Mr. Bush busy overseas in the twilight of his administration, as his influence over domestic policy wanes and attention at home turns increasingly to the campaign to elect his successor. 
 Mr. Bush is scheduled to leave for Africa on Friday evening. The trip will take him to Benin, Tanzania, Rwanda, Ghana and Liberia -- all countries that have benefited from American foreign aid. 
 Mr. Bush's presence is intended to celebrate each country's political and economic progress, while sending a not-so-subtle reminder of the role the United States has played.
 But with Kenya racked by violence over a disputed election, unrest in Chad and a worsening crisis in the Darfur region of Sudan, it had become increasingly clear that Mr. Bush could not take what analysts have dubbed ''a victory lap'' in Africa while steering clear of troubles on the continent -- especially in Kenya, where more than 1,000 have died in the recent violence.
 ''There must be an immediate halt to violence,'' Mr. Bush said, using his toughest language to date about the crisis in Kenya, in a speech intended to preview his Africa trip. ''There must be justice for the victims of abuse and there must be a full return to democracy.''
 When he last spoke publicly about Kenya, more than a month ago, Mr. Bush called only for a ''peaceful dialogue'' between the rival parties. In another public display of concern, he will meet with Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations on Friday before he is scheduled to leave.
 (On Thursday, Mr. Bush suggested that he might postpone the trip if Congress failed to quickly revise and extend a law governing communications surveillance counterterrorism investigations, a top White House priority.)
 The official focus of the trip is Mr. Bush's development agenda, money for roads, schools, clean water and health. By putting the spotlight on American soft power, especially his initiatives to combat AIDS and malaria, the White House had hoped to burnish Mr. Bush's legacy -- and by extension, the United States.
 ''The focus of this trip is legacy, legacy, legacy,'' said J. Anthony Holmes, an Africa expert at the Council on Foreign Relations and former ambassador to the West African nation of Burkina Faso under Mr. Bush. ''They clearly want to highlight and enshrine what the president has accomplished, as well as to get some political points.''
 Advocates for combating poverty and disease in Africa say Mr. Bush has reason to be proud. The Irish singer Bob Geldof, who along with the rock star Bono has made a cause of aid to Africa, will accompany Mr. Bush in Rwanda and Ghana.
 In a statement, Bono said he hoped ''the next president will build on Mr. Bush's accomplishments.''
 Mr. Bush concluded early in his tenure that Africa, a continent rich with natural resources but also fraught with poverty and the potential for crisis, was too important to ignore. The billions he has committed in foreign aid stem also in part from his belief, reinforced by the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, that it is in American self-interest to prevent poor nations with fragile governments from deteriorating into breeding grounds for terrorism.
 ''We've seen that conditions on the other side of the world can have a direct impact on our own security,'' Mr. Bush said in his speech on Friday at the Smithsonian Institution's Museum of African Art. ''We know that if Africa were to continue on the old path of decline, it would be more likely to produce failed states, foster ideologies of radicalism and spread violence across borders.''
 Africa remains one corner of the world where, despite the war in Iraq, the United States is viewed relatively favorably. Even so, Mr. Bush may face suspicion about his intentions. There is deep skepticism among Africans and their leaders about the Pentagon's new ''Africa command'' aimed at coordinating military and diplomatic activities, with headquarters on the continent. 
 Only one country, Liberia, has expressed interest in being a host to the command. Last October, the legislative body of the African Union voted to encourage all African governments ''not to accede'' to the American plan, forcing the Pentagon, at least for now, to keep the headquarters in Stuttgart, Germany, instead.
 The United States is increasingly interested in Africa's substantial oil reserves. Some see Mr. Bush's visit as a means of countering the rising influence of China on the continent. On Wednesday, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, delivered a message to China to invest responsibly in Africa.
 ''Obviously, the continent is rich with resources,'' Mr. Hadley said, asked if the United States is concerned about China's influence there. ''We think those resources need to be used in a way that enhance and accelerate the development of the continent, and we think countries need to be responsible in their activities.'' 
 Mr. Bush is also facing questions about whether he is putting his money where his mouth is. His $15 billion, five-year initiative to fight global H.I.V. and AIDS is up for reauthorization, and he has asked for $30 billion over the next five years. But Democrats and advocates for AIDS patients say that is not enough. They are calling for $50 billion. 
 At the same time, Mr. Bush's proposed budget for 2009 would reduce money for international peacekeeping efforts and for child health programs. ''He may face questions focused more on what he's not talking about than what he is,'' said Gayle Smith, an Africa expert at the Center for American Progress here.
 The trip will be Mr. Bush's second visit to Africa. His wife, Laura, who has already visited Africa four times as first lady, will accompany him. Their itinerary is carefully arranged to spotlight what Mr. Bush described as his administration's efforts to help African leaders ''lift up their nations and write a new chapter in their history.''
 In Tanzania, he will sign a compact entering that country into his Millennium Challenge Corporation, a four-year-old federal agency that allocates foreign aid based on a country's track record in good government and helping its own people. In Rwanda, Mr. Bush will visit a memorial to the 1994 genocide and will visit with American-trained Rwandan troops. Rwanda deployed troops as peacekeepers in the Darfur region of Sudan.
 But the emotional highlight of his trip may well be his brief stop in Liberia, a country with historic connections to the United States and one that overshadowed Mr. Bush's last trip to Africa, in 2003, in much the same way that Kenya overshadows this trip.
 At that time, Liberia was reeling from more than two decades of civil war that had plunged the country into chaos under the strongman Charles Taylor. Mr. Bush spent the entire trip dogged by questions about why the United States had not intervened.
 Eventually, he sent a small contingent of troops, and Mr. Taylor was pushed out. Today, Liberia is recovering under Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the first woman in Africa to be elected president in a democratic vote -- just the kind of story the White House likes to tell.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush gave a speech on Africa on Thursday before his scheduled tour of the continent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MALARIA (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); AIDS & HIV (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (77%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KENYA (94%); SUDAN (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); GHANA (79%); RWANDA (79%); JAPAN (79%); LIBERIA (79%); CHAD (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



390 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: TOP OFFICIALS SEE BLEAKER OUTLOOK FOR THE ECONOMY

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With the credit markets once again deteriorating, the nation's two top economic policy makers acknowledged Thursday that the outlook for the economy had worsened, as both came under criticism for being overtaken by events and failing to act boldly enough.
 In testimony to Congress, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, signaled that the Fed was ready to reduce interest rates yet again, pointing out that problems in housing and mortgage-related markets had spread more widely and proved more intractable than he predicted three months ago. 
 His sobering assessment was echoed by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., who appeared with him. Both continued to avoid predicting a recession but said they were scaling back the more optimistic forecasts they had issued in November.
 Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist for Lehman Brothers, said that both policy makers had ''come clean'' about the economy's problems but that investors were not impressed.
 Stock prices, which normally rally when the Fed hints it will lower borrowing costs, tumbled instead. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 175 points, or 1.4 percent; broader stock indexes dropped by similar amounts.
 Anxiety is escalating among institutional lenders and major borrowers, as the panic over soaring default rates on subprime mortgages that began last summer continues to spread, freezing up credit for municipalities, hospitals, student loans and even investment funds holding the most conservative bonds. 
 On Capitol Hill, the economic policy makers found themselves in the line of fire. Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, accused both Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson of having ''hit the snooze button.''
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, chairman of the Banking Committee, told reporters after the hearing that ''it just seems as if they aren't as concerned about the magnitude of the problem.''
 Testifying before the committee, Mr. Bernanke said he still expected the economy to grow at a ''sluggish'' pace over the next few months and to pick up speed later in the year. But he said ''the downside risks to growth have increased,'' noting that spiraling losses in home mortgages have dragged down the credit markets and shaken the broader economy.
 While trying to be optimistic, Mr. Paulson said that the administration's forecast ''would be less, but I do believe we'll keep growing.''
 Many Wall Street economic forecasters, however, are already estimating that the risks of a recession are at least 50-50, and a growing number of analysts contend that an economic contraction may have already begun.
 Fed policy makers will release their newest forecasts on Wednesday, and Mr. Bernanke said they would be more in line with those of private-sector economists.
 The Fed has reduced its benchmark interest rate, called the federal funds rate, five times since September, including two cuts within eight days last month. The rate has fallen to 3 percent; as recently as late summer of last year it was 5.25 percent.
 Mr. Bernanke assured lawmakers that the Fed would ''provide adequate insurance'' against a downturn in the form of cheaper money.
 But neither investors nor politicians have responded particularly favorably to Washington's moves. Yields on asset-backed securities that hold mortgages and other debt have risen to levels almost as high as they were last August, when financial markets first seized up in response to soaring default rates on subprime mortgages.
 The Fed's rate cuts have led to a more modest decline in mortgage rates for borrowers with good credit, but they have done little to ease the broader credit squeeze.
 Mr. Bernanke agreed that banks and other lenders have been pulling back, both because of increased aversion to risk and because they have been forced to book huge losses from soured loans and to repurchase troubled mortgages and loans they had sold to investors. 
 The unexpected losses and growing pressures, he continued, have prompted banks to become more restrictive in their lending and more ''protective of their liquidity.''
 Mr. Bernanke said the economy would grow slowly but pick up speed later in response to both the Fed's lower interest rates and the $168 billion economic stimulus package that President Bush signed Wednesday. 
 ''At present, my baseline outlook involves a period of sluggish growth, followed by a somewhat stronger pace of growth starting later this year,'' he told lawmakers. But in cautioning that his outlook could turn out to be wrong, the Fed chairman left the door open to additional rate reductions. 
 Mr. Paulson tried to sound less downbeat. ''I believe we are going to continue to grow, albeit at a slower rate,'' he told the Banking Committee, insisting that the plunge in housing and credit markets was a correction rather than a crisis. 
 Mr. Bernanke said a wide variety of economic indicators had declined in recent months, as the meltdown in the housing and mortgage markets rippled through the broader economy.
 The Fed chairman said the job market had worsened, noting employment fell by 17,000 jobs in January, according to the Labor Department. That was down from an average rise of 95,000 jobs a month in the final three months of 2007. Unemployment, though still comparatively low, at 4.9 percent, has edged up from 4.7 percent a few months ago. 
 Nationwide, housing prices have declined and show no signs of having hit bottom, while the stock markets have fallen sharply from their highs late last year. 
 Mr. Dodd has proposed legislation to create an agency to bail out many homeowners by buying up and restructuring troubled mortgages. He painted a particularly bleak picture.
 ''The current economic situation is more than merely a 'slowdown' or a 'downturn,' '' he said. ''It is a crisis of confidence among consumers and investors.''
 Mr. Paulson and other administration officials staunchly oppose a government buyout program, arguing that the tax rebates and business tax cuts in the new stimulus package should keep the nation out of a recession.
 But Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, ranking Republican on the Banking Committee, predicted the bill's tax rebates and temporary tax cuts for business would have a negligible impact.
 ''I have equated it to pouring a glass of water in the ocean and expecting it to make a difference,'' Mr. Shelby said.
 Though lawmakers welcomed the Fed's willingness to lower interest rates, investors had already been assuming that events would force the Fed's hand.
 Prices in the federal funds futures market, which allows investors to bet on the coming course of rates, indicate investors expect the central bank to reduce its benchmark overnight rate another full percentage point, to 2 percent, by the end of June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BONDS (76%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); BOB MENENDEZ (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



391 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: New Trouble in Auction-Rate Securities

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON and VIKAS BAJAJ; Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting

 BODY:
SOME well-heeled investors got a big jolt from Goldman Sachs this week: Goldman, the most celebrated bank on Wall Street, refused to let them withdraw money from investments that they had considered as safe as cash.
 The investments at issue are so-called auction-rate securities, instruments at the center of the latest squeeze in the credit markets. 
 Goldman, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and other banks have been telling investors the market for these securities is frozen -- and so is their cash. 
 The banks typically pitch these securities to corporations and wealthy individuals as safe alternatives to cash, investors said. The bonds are, in fact, long-term securities. But the banks hold weekly or monthly auctions to set the interest rates and give holders the option of selling the securities. 
 Only this week almost 1,000 of these auctions failed. The banks also refused to support the auctions, leaving many investors wondering when they will get their money back.
 ''Investors have lost confidence in the liquidity of these instruments,'' said G. David MacEwen, the chief investment officer for fixed income at American Century Investments, a mutual fund company. ''These types of instruments depend on new investors showing up to own the securities.''
 The $330 billion auction-rate market is dominated by municipalities and other tax-exempt institutions like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which had issued some auction securities and had its interest rate soar to 20 percent on Wednesday. Closed-end mutual funds, student loan companies and corporations also issue such securities. 
 A failed auction does not mean the securities go into default, because the issuer continues to pay interest at the higher rate, or ''fail rate.'' 
 The market, however, has a troubled history. In 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission reached a $13 million settlement with 15 investment banks, and the industry agreed to impose a voluntary code of conduct for the auction-rate market.
 The S.E.C. investigation centered on how bidding was conducted for these securities. Critics complain that investment banks have the upper hand in bidding because they can bid after seeing what other investors have bid.
 Brokerage firms are not legally obligated to make a market in auction securities, or give clients a price even if there is not one in the market. But clients who are unable to sell are likely to argue that they were wrongly put into long-term securities when their intention was to buy shorter-term debt.
 ''If these were pitched as cash equivalents, if that is what the broker said they were, the banks may be held responsible for losses and clients' inability to get their money out,'' said Jacob H. Zamansky, a securities lawyer who represents individual investors.
 Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch declined to comment.
 The situation is an awkward one for investment banks and brokers that have had to tell clients that their cash is frozen until at least the next auction -- if not longer. One affluent New Jersey family has sued Lehman Brothers for the declining value of its cash in auction-rate securities. Lehman has said it acted properly.
 Money managers, chief executives and individual investors have been swept up by the latest turmoil in the credit markets. One wealthy investor said Goldman Sachs had sold him auction-rate securities and had described the instruments as equivalent to cash. 
 ''It's a moral outrage,'' said this investor, who asked not to be named because he still has to deal with the bank. ''Their pitch was, keep your cash with us, we get a higher rate.''
 This year, Bristol-Myers Squibb, the drug maker, took a $275 million write-off on money it had invested in auction-rate securities that it was unable to sell because of failed auctions.
 Analysts say the biggest investors in auction-rate securities are individuals and corporations because money market funds cannot own the bonds. Many bond fund managers also shy away from the securities because of the uncertainty.
 But the failed auctions do have one upside: the securities are resetting to rates that are far higher than those on other types of bonds.
 Mr. MacEwen of American Century said his firm was considering buying auction-rate bonds for the first time because the rates have been reset to an attractive level. 
 ''A lot of the municipalities or the closed-end funds that underlie this are high quality,'' Mr. MacEwen said. ''Whether its 20 percent or 5 percent, that looks like a good purchase if you are willing to forgo the liquidity.'' 
 Not all auction-rate securities with failed auctions are resetting to very high rates. The penalty rates are governed by the terms of the bond, and in some cases they are tied to short-term interest rates like the London interbank offered rate, which has been falling for much of the year as the Federal Reserve has cut its benchmark interest rate.

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Liquid Market?: Auction-rate securities have not sold well recently. Here is a breakdown of the market.(Source: Capital Advisors Group) Chart details statistics for taxable markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (65%); LAWYERS (63%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (62%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



392 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; AGE OF RICHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2021 words

HEADLINE: Reconciling Opposites

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
''Where is it ordained that private equity pays only a 15 percent tax?''
 The ballroom at the Mandarin Oriental in Manhattan is loud with the cocktail chatter of Blackstone investment bankers and pension fund managers so Peter G. Peterson, 81, leans closer to hear the shouted question from Michael D. McCurry, the former White House spokesman for President Bill Clinton.
 ''When is Pete Peterson going to stand up and say taxes must go up?'' Mr. McCurry asks, pressing his point.
 In the past, Mr. Peterson -- the billionaire co-founder of the Blackstone Group and public scold of costly entitlement programs, ballooning government deficits and cozy tax arrangements -- would rise to such a debating challenge. 
 But this is more than an arcane policy question: Mr. Peterson has just reaped a $1.8 billion profit from Blackstone's public offering -- a payout that was a direct result of just such an amenable rate.
 He feels terrible, too. His shoulder aches from a recent fall and his blood pressure is up, all of which has left him short of sleep. Finally, he gathers himself.
 ''Any package will have to include tax increases,'' he conceded. 
 On Friday, Mr. Peterson will unveil the Peter G. Peterson Foundation and announce his plan to allocate his newfound billions to projects that will increase public awareness of fiscal imbalances, Social Security deficits and nuclear proliferation. 
 But the larger question that was posed by Mr. McCurry is unavoidable: Can a man who has scored riches from an industry that has benefited from a generous, controversial tax break emerge as a credible voice in favor of broad fiscal constraint in Washington? 
 It is a quandary that has plagued Mr. Peterson for years. And while he supports increased taxes on the wealthy (along with broad-based benefit reductions), he remains firm in his defense of the special provision for private equity partnerships despite the view of many on Wall Street, including the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett, that the rate is too low. 
 ''This is a fairness argument,'' said Mr. Peterson, who says that increasing the 15 percent rate for so-called carried interest, compared with ordinary tax rates of roughly double that, would force private equity companies overseas. ''There are so many other partnerships, why pick on this high-growth sector?''
 At a time when hedge fund and private equity magnates have garnered billion-dollar fortunes from the fading alternative asset boom, how they put such riches to use has become a matter of increased public concern. To many a hardened capitalist, philanthropy has long been a nice way to enhance their social status and show a softer side by financing museum wings, medical centers and concert halls. 
 But that is not Mr. Peterson's goal. For Mr. Peterson, a former commerce secretary under President Richard M. Nixon, his giving reveals who he really is -- less a Wall Street titan than a persistent Jeremiah who for 26 years now has prophesied that fiscal and trade deficits will lead to a financial Armageddon. 
 The end of the world has not yet come -- and during this time Mr. Peterson has gone from being a millionaire to a billionaire. But the dollar's fall, renewed worries about America's propensity to consume rather than save and pressing concerns over the future budgetary consequences of caring for the elderly has brought newfound currency to Mr. Peterson's dire warnings. 
 ''We are at a make-or-break point in American history,'' Mr. Peterson said. ''The entitlement monster is unfunded. We are dangerously dependent on foreign capital, our health care costs per capita are twice the level of the developed world. The goal is to integrate public policy and charitable giving and to answer this question: How do you educate a public that has become largely inert?'' 
 Philanthropy on the Agenda 
 Out of the gate, the Peterson foundation will be worth about $100 million and Mr. Peterson expects it to grow to $1 billion, a large part of his total fortune.
 He has hired David M. Walker, the respected head of the Government Accountability Office, to be chief executive and has already committed $5 million -- a grant that will be matched by Mr. Buffett -- to the former Senator Sam Nunn for his work on curbing nuclear proliferation, as well as funds to the Concord Coalition, a group he helped found that lobbies for deficit reduction.
 For a man who has conspired with Henry Kissinger in the Nixon White House, led Lehman Brothers away from the brink of bankruptcy and been a co-founder of the world's most recognized private equity firm, his final act is arguably his most ambitious and deeply felt. 
 And it is one he hopes to be in a position to complete. Since Blackstone's public offering in June, Mr. Peterson has battled a string of mishaps and maladies that has left him in a weakened physical state. In July, he tripped after giving a speech at a luncheon in his honor, ripping tendons in his shoulder. In November he broke his wrist in a fall at his vacation home in Florida. 
 ''Aging is not for sissies,'' he jokes, suppressing a round of coughs. 
 Even so, and despite his diminished role at Blackstone -- he is to retire officially from the firm by the end of this year -- he reports to the office most mornings, formal and precise in his dark suit and gaudy shirts. His principal indulgence from his newfound wealth has been the $37 million he recently paid for a Fifth Avenue apartment with the terrace view of Central Park he has long pined for.
 ''Intellectually and socially he has not slowed down -- it's a hell of a pace,'' said James F. Hoge Jr., the editor of Foreign Affairs. ''Like David Rockefeller and John McCloy before him, he is using what comes his way for a purpose larger than his own.'' 
 The son of George Petropoulos, a Greek immigrant restaurateur who settled in Nebraska (and later changed his name to Peterson), Mr. Peterson, has strived to daub the gray bureaucratese of his lectures and books with the reds, whites and blues of his embrace of the American dream. And with the smarts of an adman -- he was a senior executive of McCann-Erickson in the 1950s -- he has gotten his message out by writing books, sitting on blue-ribbon commissions and sponsoring research and advocacy groups.
 But despite the ceaseless exhortations, there has been scant progress in rectifying these matters. ''It's one thing to write the books and to create the Concord Coalition,'' said Leslie H. Gelb, the former president of the Council on Foreign Relations. ''It's quite another to figure out what buttons to push to get things done.''
 Mr. Peterson's ideas are many. One is organizing a youthful equivalent to the powerful lobbying group for senior citizens, AARP. Another is working with HBO on a documentary film adaptation of his book ''Running on Empty,'' in the hope that the American public wakes up to the dangers of deficits and entitlement spending as it did to global warming after Al Gore's film ''An Inconvenient Truth.''
 His coup is snagging Mr. Walker, who for years has been a vocal critic of entitlement excesses.
 ''I am convinced that Washington is broken,'' said Mr. Walker, who informed his bosses in Congress on Thursday that he would resign. ''We have a closing window of opportunity -- maybe five years -- to demonstrate to our foreign lenders that we are serious about our future.''
 Seeking a Name for Himself
 Given Mr. Peterson's many accomplishments and extraordinary wealth, he retains a surprisingly starry-eyed quality. Asif he has to pinch himself that he is not still behind the counter at his father's diner. 
 David Rockefeller, Alan Greenspan, Diane Sawyer, Robert Rubin, Warren Buffett, Margaret Thatcher -- these names and more are rolled out with a metronomic quality.
 ''My father used to say that Pete used Henry Kissinger's name like other people use commas,'' said Michael M. Thomas, a former Lehman Brothers executive whose father, Joseph A. Thomas, was at Lehman with Mr. Peterson. ''Pete may have $2 billion, but in terms of impact on the world relative to the positions he has held, it's been small. Philanthropy is his last best shot.''
 More deeply, some say, Mr. Peterson carries a visible weight on his shoulders: despite being seen as a respected cabinet member, investment banker and public intellectual he cannot point to any defining moment in his career that can match his vast hunger to be seen as a great man. 
 Felix G. Rohatyn, the Lazard investment banker, can boast of his work in the 1970s when he advised the City of New York as it faced bankruptcy. And a previous generation of establishment titans like Robert A. Lovett, Cyrus R. Vance and John J. McCloy effectively straddled Washington and Wall Street by cultivating reputations as political insiders, always ready to serve in high office or offer words of wisdom when the White House called. 
 Since his time in the Nixon administration, Mr. Peterson's contacts with presidents have been minimal. He has sat on commissions, spoken some hard truths to President Bush on entitlements but, perhaps because of his admonitory ways, has not been called back to Washington. 
 Mr. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary and chairman of Citigroup, sees Mr. Peterson as a necessary Paul Revere.
 ''He is a public citizen,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''The fact that entitlements are on people's minds and in the political and policy arena, even though the political system does not want to be serious about it, is because of Pete. He has kept this issue alive and in the domain.''
 Others, though, view the proselytizing as mostly self-serving.
 ''Pete Peterson has been writing books and funding think tanks, calling on people to make sacrifices,'' said Jeffrey Faux, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute. ''For him to have any credibility at all he should be the first one to say we ought to be paying more taxes on these tremendously profitable arrangements.''
 To some degree, that may be asking for the impossible. As a co-founder of Blackstone, Mr. Peterson has a fiduciary responsibility to the firm, his partners and its employees, restraining any impulse he may have had to call for a tax increase that would have halved his company's profits, to say nothing of his own wealth. Mr. Peterson points out that an increase in the tax will not come close to narrowing big fiscal gaps.
 Still, his position has provided further fire to critics who claim that given his wealth, he is in no position to call for benefit reductions.
 ''Look, I am a genuine fat cat,'' Mr. Peterson said, his voice rising in frustration. ''But my response to my critics is, What do you want to do about the problem? Shared sacrifice has become politically incorrect and politically terminal in this country, and we are going to spend a lot money to dramatize these issues.''
 Holding Court at Lunch 
 At the Four Seasons restaurant in Manhattan, where Mr. Peterson has been regularly having lunch for 22 years, he is treated with the consideration and regard of an aging don. With his broken right wrist in a cast, he picks vaguely at his tuna burger while a procession of executives, including the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, come by to pay their respects.
 Julian Niccolini, a co-owner of the restaurant, ribs Mr. Peterson about a spot on his tie and the grand habits of Stephen A. Schwarzman, his founding partner best known for his extravagant 60th-birthday party. Mr. Peterson counters with an unrelated joke so filthy that it sends Mr. Niccolini scurrying. 
 By 3 o'clock the restaurant is empty, yet Mr. Peterson is in no hurry to leave. His eyes, watery behind thick-framed glasses, have a faraway look. He reminisces on the randomness of his journey from being poor in Nebraska to being among the world's richest.
 ''I call it dumb luck,'' he laughed, recalling the humiliation he felt in 1983 when he lost a power struggle to a rival executive at Lehman Brothers and was forced out.
 Two years later he started Blackstone with Mr. Schwarzman. ''I thank Lew Glucksman every day of my life,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Peter G. Peterson plans to finance projects that will increase public awareness of fiscal imbalances.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1)
Peter G. Peterson, center, was a commerce secretary under President Richard M. Nixon, left. Since the Nixon administration, Mr. Peterson's contacts with presidents have been minimal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL, 1972)
 While commerce secretary, Peter G. Peterson announced a new set of principles for product packaging and labeling.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS, 1972)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); TAX PLANNING (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); TAX LAW (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); HEALTH CARE (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%)

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (93%); BILL CLINTON (72%); RICHARD NIXON (71%); WARREN BUFFETT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



393 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Profit at Daimler After Chrysler Sale

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Daimler, the German maker of luxury vehicles, reported a fourth-quarter profit on Thursday, helped by the sale of its Chrysler division in the United States and job cuts at Mercedes-Benz Cars. 
 Net income was 1.7 billion euros ($2.5 billion) in contrast to a loss of 12 million euros in the period a year earlier, Daimler said. Revenue fell 1.9 percent, to 26.5 billion euros.
 The chief executive, Dieter Zetsche, predicted further earnings growth in 2008 as demand for vehicles in emerging economies outweighs a possible recession in the United States, Daimler's biggest market. Chrysler's disposal last year will let Daimler focus on improving profitability at remaining divisions, including truckmaking and vehicle finance, Mr. Zetsche said.
 The carmaker plans to raise the 2007 dividend to 2 euros a share from 1.5 euros a year earlier, and will continue a share buyback program, the company said. Daimler, based in Stuttgart, bought back 50 million shares at a cost of 3.5 billion euros last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EURO (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY REVENUES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); LUXURY GOODS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); RECESSION (88%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (85%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008



394 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Give This Man a Pencil

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
THE identity of the littlest conference room inside the headquarters of the Writers Guild of America East is situation-dependent: sometimes it functions as a law library, sometimes as the caucus room for mini-negotiations deemed too private to conduct in full conference mode. Writers are secretive: Think soap opera scribes.
 But in the past 14 weeks, there has been a different cliffhanger staged here, and it shows. 
 There is no detritus like strike detritus, and that's what still fills this room 24 hours after the official end of the writers' strike, waged mainly as a fight with producers and media moguls over Internet and digital media residuals, that commenced Nov. 5 and concluded on Tuesday night in a 92.5 percent ratification vote for a settlement agreement. 
 The office furniture is buried under scads of discarded placards (Do the Write Thing!), and unclaimed Writers Guild Award statuettes. Stephen Colbert's is prominent among them; the Guild was not happy with Mr. Colbert, nor with Jon Stewart, for resuming their Comedy Central talk shows during the strike. Semiscabs? That depends on one's perspective. 
 Sitting among the detritus in the conference room, at 555 West 57th Street, is Michael Winship, the temporarily (he hopes) unemployed, coffee-sipping television writer/union president, who is banking on the belief that this week's settlement portends an entertainment industry feeding frenzy for dialogue written by fellows just like him. 
 Mr. Winship, a longtime collaborator of Bill Moyers's, is the author of the 1988 book ''Television,'' a history of the medium that has sustained him since he dropped out of Georgetown University 37 years ago. A winner of a Writers Guild Award for ''Wall Street Scoundrels'' in 2004, he had a pair of television treatments in circulation before the strike. What if Hollywood holds his union activism against him? 
 ''Maybe I should sign the name Tom Hanks to my scripts,'' he muses.
 ''Does Hollywood bear grudges? We're about to find that out. But I'd like to think it's going to be more a case of that old line, 'You'll never work in this town again -- until we need you.' ''
 For the three months of the writers' strike that hobbled Hollywood and rendered television a wasteland of reality shows and reruns, this cluttered cubbyhole has been used as a war room of sorts. It is here that many of the 4,000 East Coast members of the 12,000-member Writers Guild of America received the weapons of the picket line: placards affixed to harmless cardboard tubing -- Los Angeles protesters got to carry picket signs attached, the classic way, to sticks, but in this city they're illegal -- and nifty lapel pins shaped like yellow pencils. 
 ''HERE you go,'' says Mr. Winship, a tweedy, paunchy, professorial type of 56, handing over a surplus pin and pocketing a few others for himself. Mr. Winship, who says, ''I'm not a grow-a-beard-for-the-strike kind of guy,'' didn't realize he was on a fast-track collision course with a major walkout when he assumed the presidency of the organization in September. 
 He pronounces himself delighted with the outcome of the strike, the industry's longest since 1988 and, to his mind, far superior to that one in terms of solidarity and acquisitions. ''Fourteen weeks is a long time to be on strike,'' he says, ''but now that I'm on the other side, it kind of looks like a perfect strike: We started from nothing. All we lost was sleep.''
 Writers stand to gain, retroactively, a share in the proceeds from digital distribution of shows; in the third year of this three-year agreement, writers will be paid a percentage of the distributor's gross. The more successful the product, the bigger the payoff. This approach contrasts starkly with the arrangement writers had for VHS and DVD sales. Mr. Winship says writers get about a nickel, period, per DVD, which is, by the way, more than he picks up for his devotion to the union: the presidency, a two-year term, is unpaid. 
 ''My mantra has always been that no union was ever framed in contentment, and no strike was ever forged in tranquillity,'' he says. ''I don't see this as biting the hand that feeds us. I see us as recognizing what the next step in the industry is, revenues from Web-streamed video, and gaining a foothold. After what happened with home videos and VHS, this whole negotiation was a case of 'Fool me twice, shame on you; fool me three times, shame on me.' We weren't going to get fooled again.'' With roughly half the union members ''in between paying projects'' at any given time, residuals are a lifeblood.
 Mr. Winship, divorced and childless and a resident of the West Village, where his apartment windows overlook the ''Sex and the City'' bus tours, grew up in Canandaigua, N.Y., in the Finger Lakes region. His father, a pharmacist, died when Mr. Winship was midway toward a degree in government studies at Georgetown. 
 He left school for financial reasons, got into public relations, worked on the McGovern presidential campaign and wound up in New York City in 1974 as a publicist for Channel 13, where his client list ranged from the serious (McNeil-Lehrer) to the ridiculous (Monty Python). 
 As a writer/producer, Mr. Winship's credits include ''Smithsonian World,'' ''NOVA,'' and ''Mancini and Friends.'' He has freelanced since 1985, and also writes a syndicated weekly column for the GateHouse News Service upstate. ''If it had a name, I'd call it Peripheral Vision,'' he says.
 He is not a fan of reality television -- ''It's schlock'' -- and believes the Reagan-era deregulation of the industry has lowered its standards. ''But I still love television; it's been my career. Still is. Now that the strike is over, I'm looking for work, remember?''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A Public Lives profile in some editions on Friday about Michael Winship, the president of the Writers Guild of America East, misstated the purpose of a union vote on Tuesday night. The vote was to decide whether to end the strike; it was not to ratify a contract.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); LIBRARIES (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); STRIKES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); LAW LIBRARIES (72%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (79%); STEPHEN COLBERT (66%); TOM HANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



395 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Post Chief Under Tax Inquiry

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH and CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
German prosecutors accused one of the country's most prominent business executives of tax evasion on Thursday after conducting early morning raids on his home and office.
 Klaus Zumwinkel, chief executive of Deutsche Post and head of the supervisory board of Deutsche Telekom, was led away from his home in a suburb of Cologne by investigators. Throughout the day, television broadcasts replayed images of Mr. Zumwinkel being taken into custody.
 A public statement from Deutsche Post saying that the board of management, including Mr. Zumwinkel, ''is fully functional and continues its business as usual'' indicated that he would not be stepping down, at least for the time being. 
 Mr. Zumwinkel ''has responded in detail to the authorities in charge with respect to the allegations against him and has returned to his home,'' the statement said.
 Prosecutors in Bochum said in a statement that Mr. Zumwinkel was questioned and released by investigators after posting bail. According to prosecutors, Mr. Zumwinkel is under suspicion of evading 1 million euros ($1.45 million) in tax payments through investment vehicles in Liechtenstein, a well-known tax haven for wealthy Germans.
 Police conducted the raids at Mr. Zumwinkel's home and his office at the Post Tower in Bonn. Mr. Zumwinkel has led Deutsche Post, Europe's largest postal service, since 1990.
 The news was another blow to the reputation of corporate Germany and its top managers, though this case appears to bear on personal rather than professional conduct. Former executives from the conglomerate Siemens await trial in the wake of a corporate bribery case and Volkswagen has been dealing with a lurid corruption case involving charges of bribery and illicit sex. 
 Shares of Deutsche Post, which owns the package-delivery business DHL, rose 2.8 percent in trading on Thursday, making the company the biggest winner on the German DAX index. There had already been speculation that Mr. Zumwinkel would step down this year. His contract expires in November and he had previously said that he would make a statement regarding his future this summer.
 Mr. Zumwinkel stands at the center of Germany's debate about highly paid managers and their influence on politics. He has led Deutsche Post's effort to shed its reputation as a stodgy state postal monopoly by streamlining the company and eliminating thousands of jobs. But his expansion strategy in the United States has failed to bear fruit.
 In 2007, Mr. Zumwinkel, a former consultant at McKinsey & Company, led a successful campaign for a minimum wage for postal service workers in Germany, a move his critics called a back-door strategy to box out competition just as Europe was moving to liberalize the sector, long the domain of state-owned companies. 
 Soon after that decision, Mr. Zumwinkel came under furious criticism for cashing in stock options totaling more than 4.7 million euros ($6.8 million) as Deutsche Post's shares benefited from the new burden the German government had placed on its competitors.
 On the business side, Deutsche Post has recently run into criticism from investors who have demanded it rethink plans for its money-hemorrhaging business in the United States. 
 Three years ago, it reintroduced express delivery services, arguing that DHL had to have a strong presence in the world's largest economy if it wanted to lay claim to the title of a logistics provider with a single global brand. But it immediately ran into a thicket of operational difficulties as well as tenacious American competition from United Parcel Service and FedEx.
 Analysts estimate DHL lost 600 million euros ($874 million) in the United States last year. Several weeks ago, Deutsche Post said it would maintain a ''significant presence'' in the United States, leading analysts to suspect a downsizing was in the works.
 ''The question has now become, What constitutes a 'significant presence?' '' said Markus Hesse, a transport and logistics analyst at Sal. Oppenheim in Frankfurt. ''That means either you raise efficiency or find other alternatives like a strategic partner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Klaus Zumwinkel has been accused of tax evasion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER BERG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 German investigators removed documents early Thursday from the home of Klaus Zumwinkel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HENNING KAISER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BRIBERY (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); TAX LAW (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); BAIL (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (63%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); STOCK INDEXES (63%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (63%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE POST AG (92%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%); SIEMENS AG (54%)

TICKER: DPW (FRA) (92%); DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%); SIN (SWX) (54%); SIE (LSE) (54%); SIE (FRA) (54%); SIE (BIT) (54%); SI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (92%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: KLAUS ZUMWINKEL (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008



396 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: When a Woman Runs for President

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Flawed Feminist Test,'' by Maureen Dowd (column, Feb. 13):
 This Democratic presidential nomination is not the litmus test for feminism's future. As a feminist advocate, I can assure you that it will take a lot more than Barack Obama's nomination to knock out feminism. 
 While Ms. Dowd is unclear if the backlash against Hillary Rodham Clinton ''is because she's a woman or because she's this woman, or because of the ick factor of returning to the old Clinton dysfunction,'' I am unclouded. 
 Seeing Senator Clinton as an ancillary to her husband rather than her own person, minimizing her professional experience, and commenting on how she looks and sounds are quintessential sexism. 
 Men in Senator Clinton's position are not accused of pulling out the race or gender card; what they wear and how they sound is certainly not front-page news; and their wives are never credited with their accomplishments. 
 Alisa Guthrie Gainesville, Fla., Feb. 13, 2008 
 To the Editor:
 Maureen Dowd states that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's ''story is wrapped up in her marriage, and her marriage is wrapped up in a series of unappetizing compromises, arrangements and dependencies.'' 
 Ms. Dowd concludes, ''If Hillary fails, it will be her failure, not ours.''
 If a judgment of Senator Clinton's marriage figures prominently in the electorate's decision, the fault may well be ours, not Mrs. Clinton's. 
 We're living in a fantasy world if we believe that anyone's marriage is free from -- or should be free from -- compromises, arrangements and dependencies. 
 And no one on the outside has a right to judge what is ''unappetizing'' in a marriage or to denigrate those who work to keep it intact. 
 Elizabeth Fuller Peterborough, N.H., Feb. 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Voting in this historic election at a critical time for the country, most women I know do not care about Hillary Rodham Clinton's marital arrangements and compromises when considering who would best lead the country. 
 If Mrs. Clinton chooses to hold her family together in tough times, good for her -- doesn't that promote the ''family values'' that conservatives are so delighted to extol? 
 Mrs. Clinton did not fold in times of personal upheaval -- she moved ahead. This is an important trait for a president, as history demonstrates. 
 Talk about Mrs. Clinton's positions on the economy, health care, the war. The Democrats have two great candidates -- stick to commentary about issues.
 Susan Goetz Zwirn Port Washington, N.Y., Feb. 13, 2008 
 To the Editor:
 Like many women, I certainly want to see a woman president. But I do not want that ''first'' to be a woman who gets there because of her husband. 
 This is not to say that Hillary Rodham Clinton isn't qualified. By all accounts, she is highly competent, intelligent and very hard-working. I admire that. 
 But it is also true that she would never be a serious contender for the presidential nomination if her husband weren't Bill Clinton. 
 Do we really want the first woman president to be one who will get an asterisk next to her name, noting that her husband was a popular previous president whose light shone on his wife, enabling her ascent? 
 Mrs. Clinton is a qualified candidate -- as are very many women, some of whom I expect to vote for in the near future. But unlike those women I envision in the future, Hillary Clinton isn't getting there on her own. That's a must for a first. 
 Julianne F. Doherty Silver Spring, Md., Feb. 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 So, then, one might ask Maureen Dowd: if not this woman, what woman? 
 If it takes a specific kind of woman to stand the ''feminist test,'' one who is not so involved with her husband, perhaps, or one who is without political ambition, or one who is a feminist yet somehow ''transcends'' her womanhood (as ''Obama aims to transcend race''), I am afraid we will never see that woman. 
 In fact, I am afraid that is the very definition of misogyny: sure, a woman -- but not this woman, or that one, either. Or that one. 
 Erica Tempesta Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Maureen Dowd sums up my problem with Hillary Rodham Clinton succinctly: ''She touts her experience as first lady, even though her judgment during those years on issue after issue was poor.''
 Like many Americans, I don't care so much about the hot-button issues that energize pundits, spinmeisters and party bases. My ''issue'' is leadership and judgment. 
 On that score, Hillary Clinton doesn't look promising, and is therefore a much bigger roll of the dice than Barack Obama. 
 Mark Block Maplewood, N.J., Feb. 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I can't believe what Penn Jillette thinks is funny. If he were to substitute another minority group for his ''joke'' -- say, Hispanics, Asians or African-Americans -- people would be excoriating him. But it seems O.K. to insult women. 
 I wish we women -- who make up more than 50 percent of the population -- would get together and see to it that we aren't insulted like this ever again. 
 Karoline Dunne Silver Spring, Md., Feb. 13, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIVIENNE FLESHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MARRIAGE (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); FAMILY (71%); CONSERVATISM (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008



397 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Buy Less but Pay Lots More, and Get a Misleading Rise in Sales

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
E-mail: norris@nytimes.com

 BODY:
FACED with tightening credit and a slowing economy, America's consumers are being forced to scale back their purchases, but high prices of necessities are keeping their overall purchases rising at a reasonably strong rate. 
 The retail sales report for January showed overall retail sales that were stronger than many economists had expected, and was well received by the stock market on Wednesday, the day it was released.
 In total, retail sales are running more than 4 percent over the level of a year ago, an increase that is above the overall inflation rate and much stronger than the sales were when the last recession began in early 2001.
 But the overall change is misleading. One reason for its strength is that prices of necessities are up sharply over the past year, meaning that those items consume more and more of the household budget, leaving less for other things.
 Over all, Americans are spending about 13 percent more on food and energy now than a year ago. The figures, as are all the figures shown in the charts accompanying this article, are based on three-month moving averages of seasonally adjusted figures, and compare this year with last year.
 The biggest cause of that increase is gasoline, of course. Americans are spending 22 percent more now at gasoline stations than they did a year ago. Food costs are up nearly 6 percent, a smaller amount but still a drain on budgets.
 As can be seen in the charts, when the economy was entering recession in early 2001, total retail sales were growing at a much slower rate than they are now. But the necessities of food and energy were growing at a much slower rate, and that rate was falling rapidly. Those declines in prices helped to offset the impact of the downturn on consumers. 
 But the situation is less bright now for many categories of retailers. One chart shows the combined sales of general merchandise stores, like department and clothing stores and discounters like Kmart. The figures include shoes and jewelry, and show that total sales now are up less than 4 percent over the past year, a lower rate than in early 2001. 
 Although not shown separately in the charts, department store sales are now declining at an annual rate of almost 3 percent, but other general merchandise stores are doing better, perhaps reflecting decisions by some consumers to save money by shopping at discounters.
 Among clothing retailers, sales at both shoe stores and men's clothing stores have declined from a year ago, and the 1.1 percent gain for women's clothing stores is the smallest in several years. Stores dedicated to women's clothing now take in about four times as much as stores dedicated to men's clothing, a proportion that has been rising gradually in recent years.
 The final chart shows an annual decline in sales of furniture and appliances, including electronic equipment. That is no surprise given the fall in home sales, but it may come as a surprise that sales from computer stores are now falling at an annual rate of almost 5 percent.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: The graphs show that ''Retail Sales Stabilize . . .'' ''. . . But More Goes to Necessities, as Optional Areas Weaken'' Figures are seasonally adjusted. Energy includes sales at gasoline stations and fuel dealers. Food includes beverages. Fuel dealer sales are reported on a delayed basis, and January 2008 sales are estimated. (Source: Commerce Department via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); RECESSION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); FOOTWEAR (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); SHOE STORES (67%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (67%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (67%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008



398 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: China's Trade Surplus Jumps, but Imports Are Rising

BYLINE: By ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
China's trade surplus grew by 22.7 percent in January over the same month last year as foreign demand for exports stayed strong despite worries about slowing global growth, according to data reported Friday. 
 The figures from the official Xinhua news agency, however, showed imports to China growing faster than its exports. At $19.5 billion, the monthly trade gap was below $20 billion for the first time since April. In December, the gap totaled $22.7 billion, and in October it reached a monthly record of $27 billion.
 Still, the latest figures appeared likely to fuel demands by China's trading partners for action on trade barriers and currency controls. Some American lawmakers are calling for punitive tariffs on Chinese goods if Beijing fails to act quickly.
 Exports in January rose 26.7 percent, to $109.7 billion, while imports grew by 27.6 percent, to $90.2 billion, according to Xinhua.
 China has continued to rack up multibillion-dollar monthly surpluses despite government efforts to rein in exports of steel, plastics and other goods that it deems too polluting or too energy-intensive in manufacturing.
 Economists say a slowing American economy might cut demand for Chinese goods slightly, but they still expect China to continue to run a large surplus with the United States.
 The managing director of the International Monetary Fund said Friday that China might be hampered by a slowdown in the United States, but its economy should still expand by about 10 percent this year. That would be down from 11.4 percent growth in 2007. ''While we are experiencing a decrease in growth in advanced economies, it is even more necessary than before to have a high level of growth in China,'' said the I.M.F. official, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who was in Beijing for meetings with Chinese leaders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008



399 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Consumer Pullback Weigh on Shares

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Dow industrials and the Nasdaq slipped Friday on concerns about retail spending after an index of consumer sentiment fell to a 16-year low and the retailer Best Buy warned that shopper traffic declined after the holidays.
 The S.&P. 500 index, however, managed a small gain, helped by a rally in food stocks on news that Berkshire Hathaway, the Warren Buffett company, had taken a stake in Kraft Foods, and as Campbell Soup and H. J. Heinz gave reassuring profit outlooks for the year. All three companies rose more than 5 percent.
 Best Buy, the largest electronics retailer in the nation, dragged down other retail stocks on Friday with its assessment of slack post-holiday demand. Best Buy shares dropped 2.5 percent, pulling down its rivals, Circuit City and RadioShack, as well. 
 Following on the heels of the Best Buy warning, a Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment sent a shiver through the market as it dropped in February to a level associated with past recessions. Other data showing softness in manufacturing in New York State and worries about the stability of bond insurers added to the gloomy mood.
 ''The sentiment data is not encouraging,'' said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company in New York. ''It's amazing the market has held up as well as it has in the face of this bad news, but unfortunately it's still the tip of the iceberg. I think we have much more to go as the year progresses in terms of problems.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 28.77 points, or 0.23 percent, at 12,348.21. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 1.13 points, or 0.08 percent, at 1,349.99. The Nasdaq composite index was down 10.74 points, or 0.46 percent, at 2,321.80.
 For the week, the S.&P. 500 and the Dow both added 1.4 percent. The Nasdaq climbed 0.7 percent.
 The major indexes bounced off session lows late in the trading day, as monthly options expiration set off automated trades.
 ''It appears that people were buying or selling their expiring February index options and had to repurchase the S.&P. futures or its underlying stocks against their hedge,'' said Joe Kinahan, chief derivatives strategist at an online brokerage firm, thinkorswim, in Chicago. ''That pared the losses in the S.&P. 500 cash and futures at the end of the day.''
 Shares of manufacturers and other economically sensitive companies ended lower. Honeywell International, the diversified manufacturer, was the biggest drag on the Dow, losing 2.6 percent, to $56.04. United Technologies, with a product roster that includes Otis elevators and Black Hawk military helicopters, was the next biggest loser, down 1.5 percent at $71.53.
 Best Buy's stock fell 2.5 percent, to $44.62. Circuit City shares were down 5 percent, at $4.79. RadioShack shares fell 1.8 percent, to $15.42.
 In the latest development affecting bond insurers, the FGIC Corporation, whose main unit has lost its top credit ratings from all three agencies, told regulators it wants to split into two companies, the New York state insurance superintendent, Eric Dinallo, said.
 Shares of other bond insurers lost ground. MBIA fell 3 percent, to $12.24, while Ambac Financial fell 2.9 percent, to $10.22. 
 Berkshire Hathaway said it had taken an 8.6 percent stake in Kraft, whose shares rose 6.9 percent, to $31.33.
 Campbell's shares rose 6.1 percent. Heinz shares jumped 5.2 percent, to $45.12. It was the best day for the S.&P. packaged foods index since July 2002, rising 3.7 percent.
 On commodity markets, crude oil for delivery in March rose 4 cents, to $95.50 a barrel, held down by concern that consumer pessimism would reduce demand for fuel. The price was up $3.68 for the week, however.
 Interest rates were lower, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note at 3.77 percent, down from 3.82 percent late Thursday, and the price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, up 13/32, to 97 25/32.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BONDS (78%); INSURANCE (71%); ONLINE TRADING (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (66%); HELICOPTERS (50%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (50%)

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (67%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (61%); H J HEINZ CO (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); RADIOSHACK CORP (56%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (61%); HNZ (NYSE) (58%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (57%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%); RSH (NYSE) (56%); HON (NYSE) (50%); HON (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (58%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (58%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (58%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (58%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008



400 of 736 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: After Slow January, Best Buy Lowers Forecast

BYLINE: By ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS 

 BODY:
Best Buy said on Friday that its annual profit would be smaller than expected, hurt by a slowing economy as shoppers held back on purchasing TVs, digital music players and cameras. 
 But the chain, which is the nation's largest consumer electronics retailer, said it would keep investing in new stores, including as many as 25 in China. That move could widen its lead over its rival, Circuit City, or hurt it if the slowdown persists.
 Shares of Best Buy fell $1.15, or 2.5 percent, to $44.62 Friday.
 Best Buy said sales at stores open at least 14 months rose 1.5 percent in December, a month when many other retailers posted declines. But the sales pace slowed after Christmas. 
 Best Buy said fewer customers came into its stores in January, and fourth-quarter sales (which include December through February) would be lower in home theater, digital music players and cameras, and video games. It said it was selling more notebook computers than expected.
 The company now expects earnings to be $3.05 to $3.10 a share for the full year, down from previous guidance of $3.10 to $3.20 a share. And it predicted revenue of nearly $40 billion for the year ending March 1. 
 Analysts polled by Thomson Financial had expected a profit of $3.16 a share on revenue of $40.2 billion.
 Yet in an investor note titled ''There Will Be Blood,'' Gary Balter, a Credit Suisse analyst, wrote, ''If the quality and segment leader is struggling, one can only imagine how poorly others in the space are doing, with Circuit City being top of mind.''
 ''That is very positive for the longer term'' for Best Buy, he added.
 He also said Best Buy's increasing international presence would reduce its exposure to a recession in the United States. 
 Despite the slowdown, Best Buy said it would open 130 to 160 stores worldwide during the coming fiscal year, in part to grab more market share. The openings will include 20 to 25 new Five Star stores and 5 to 8 new Best Buy stores in China, in addition to the one already open in Shanghai.
 Best Buy acquired a controlling stake in the Five Star appliance chain in China in 2006. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (91%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (74%); ACQUISITIONS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); CHRISTMAS (69%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (53%)

COMPANY: BEST BUY CO INC (85%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (67%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: BBY (NYSE) (85%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (85%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (85%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (85%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (57%) EAST CHINA (57%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

 
