

1 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: The Everyman Who Exposed Tainted Toothpaste

BYLINE: By WALT BOGDANICH; R.M. Koster contributed reporting from Panama.

DATELINE: PANAMA 

 BODY:
Eduardo Arias hardly fits the profile of someone capable of humbling one of the world's most formidable economic powers.
 A 51-year-old Kuna Indian, Mr. Arias grew up on a reservation paddling dugout canoes near his home on one of the San Blas islands off Panama's Caribbean coast. He now lives in a small apartment above a food stand in Panama, the nation's capital, also known as Panama City. 
 But one Saturday morning in May, Eduardo Arias did something that would reverberate across six continents. He read the label on a 59-cent tube of toothpaste. On it were two words that had been overlooked by government inspectors and health authorities in dozens of countries: diethylene glycol, the same sweet-tasting, poisonous ingredient in antifreeze that had been mixed into cold syrup here, killing or disabling at least 138 Panamanians last year. 
 Mr. Arias reported his discovery, setting off a worldwide hunt for tainted toothpaste that turned out to be manufactured in China. Health alerts have now been issued in 34 countries, from Vietnam to Kenya, from Tonga in the Pacific to Turks and Caicos in the Caribbean. Canada found 24 contaminated brands and New Zealand found 16. Japan had 20 million tubes. Officials in the United States unwittingly gave the toothpaste to prisoners, the mentally disabled and troubled youths. Hospitals gave it to the sick, while high-end hotels gave it to the wealthy.
 People around the world had been putting an ingredient of antifreeze in their mouths, and until Panama blew the whistle, no one seemed to know it.
 The toothpaste scare helped galvanize global concerns about the quality of China's exports in general, prompting the government there to promise to reform how food, medicine and consumer products are regulated. And other countries are re-examining how well they monitor imported products.
 Lost in this swirl of activity was the identity of the person who started it all -- Mr. Arias. Until The New York Times tracked him down with the help of the Panama City mayor's office, his name had not been known, even to some people working on the case. ''We haven't been able to find him,'' said Julio Cesar Laffaurie, the Panamanian prosecutor pursuing the case of the contaminated toothpaste.
 In looking back over events of the past year, Dr. Jorge Motta, director of the Gorgas Memorial Institute, a prominent research center in Panama City, said he was grateful that some good had come from the national trauma brought on by the toxic cough syrup.
 ''The whole questioning about Chinese goods began in Panama with our deaths,'' he said, putting a twist on an old Chinese saying by adding, ''A little butterfly in Panama beat her wings and created a storm in China.''
 Mr. Arias, who lives alone and does not own a car, went to buy blank CDs on May 5 at Vendela, a discount store where he had heard prices were so low that street vendors bought supplies there. Stepping into the store, a large display of toothpaste caught his eye.
 ''Without touching the tube, the letters were big enough for me to read: diethylene glycol,'' Mr. Arias said.
 A year ago, those words would have meant nothing to him. ''Nobody had ever heard of this stuff,'' Mr. Arias said. But a steady drumbeat of news about poison cough syrup had engraved the words in his mind.
 ''It was inconceivable to me that a known toxic substance that killed all these people could be openly on sale and that people would go on about their business calmly, selling and buying this stuff,'' said Mr. Arias, who has a midlevel government job reviewing environmental reports.
 Mr. Arias thought about alerting the store clerk but figured nothing would come of it. Instead, he bought a tube with the plan of turning it over to the health authorities. It was not easy. 
 Since government offices were closed on the weekend, he said, he used a vacation day on Monday to walk the tube to the nearest Health Ministry office. But that office refused to accept it, directing him to a second health center.
 Mr. Arias walked there and found himself in a crowded office. ''It's always filled with people who are seeking medical attention,'' he said. The clerk there directed him to another section of the building where he spoke to another official. 
 ''I said, look, here is this toothpaste I bought on the pedestrian mall,'' he said he told the official, ''and it says right here -- it's got diethylene glycol.'' 
 The official told him he needed to take the toothpaste to a third health center, this one much farther away. ''I said, wait, wait, do I have to walk all the way over there?'' he recalled. ''Can't I give it to you and make the complaint here?''
 At this point, Mr. Arias said he was given a form to fill out. He left wondering what if anything would come of his complaint.
 Mr. Arias got his answer three days later when the nation's top health official, Dr. Camilo Alleyne, announced that toothpaste containing diethylene glycol had been found by an unidentified shopper in Panama City.
 The news set off alarms. In 2006 the government had mistakenly mixed mislabeled diethylene glycol into 260,000 bottles of cold medicine, and Panama was still coping with its aftermath. The day before Dr. Alleyne's announcement, a front-page newspaper article here reported the finding by The Times that the diethylene glycol in the cold medicine had come from a Chinese company not certified to sell pharmaceutical ingredients, and that it had been sold under a false label. 
 Over the years, counterfeiters have used diethylene glycol as a cheap substitute for its more expensive chemical cousin, glycerin, a common ingredient in medicine, food and household products. 
 Could the suspect toothpaste have come from China as well, investigators wanted to know? And how did it enter the country unnoticed?
 ''Under no circumstances were we ever going to let another incident such as happened last year happen again,'' said Eric Conte, a top drug official at the Panamanian Health Ministry.
 The label did not list its origin. ''There was stuff in English, how to brush your teeth, and there was a list of ingredients,'' Mr. Conte said. Markings suggested that it came from Germany, but the authorities were skeptical. 
 ''We had a good idea where it came from,'' said Reynaldo Lee, director of the national food protection agency. He suspected China, and shipping records proved him right. 
 The toothpaste had entered Panama through the Colon Free Trade Zone on the Atlantic side of the Panama Canal. One of the world's biggest free zones, with 30,000 workers and 2,500 businesses, it is a place where billions of dollars in goods are unloaded, stored and either sold or reshipped free of tariffs. From there, 5,000 to 6,000 tubes slipped into the Panamanian market, without proper certification, mixed in with animal products, investigators said. A much larger number of tubes were reshipped from the free zone to other Latin American countries. 
 But it was not until the United States disclosed June 1 that tainted tubes had penetrated its borders that the hunt intensified, a task that grew more difficult when investigators discovered that some contaminated toothpaste did not list diethylene glycol on the label. 
 Even two well-known brands, Colgate and Sensodyne, got caught up in the sweep when counterfeiters were found to be selling toothpaste with antifreeze under their names. Some fake Colgate tubes also contained potentially harmful bacteria, according to a statement from Health Canada, the national health agency. 
 ''Consumers should seal the tube and put the tube in a sealed bag,'' Canadian officials advised. Investigators told The Times that both counterfeit brands came from China.
 As the complaints mounted, China's government defended legitimate manufacturers that used diethylene glycol as a thickening agent in toothpaste, saying it had caused no health problems among Chinese consumers. 
 Officials outside China took a different view. ''They should apologize to the world, and not say that it is not dangerous'' said Dora Akunyili, who runs the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control in Nigeria. ''This is ridiculous.''
 Like Panama, Nigeria had its own lethal encounter with diethylene glycol when dozens of children died in 1990 from medicine that also contained the poison. 
 In laboratory tests, Canadian authorities found diethylene glycol concentrations of nearly 14 percent in Chinese toothpaste -- about twice the level of poison detected in the deadly Panamanian cough syrup.
 ''While toothpaste is not meant to be swallowed, it is often swallowed by young children,'' Health Canada warned. Action against Chinese toothpaste is continuing. In late September, Brunei and Australia announced bans on toothpaste containing unacceptable levels of diethylene glycol. 
 As reports from around the world mounted, Chinese officials showed they were not immune to the criticism. When the makers of Sensodyne tracked counterfeit toothpaste through the Dubai Free Trade Zone to a factory in Shejiang Province in China, regulators there shut it down, a spokesman for Sensodyne said. The government also closed the chemical company that made the poison used in the toxic Panamanian cough syrup.
 And in July, China ordered its manufacturers to stop using diethylene glycol in toothpaste. 
 The decision generated news coverage around the world. The name Eduardo Arias was nowhere to be found. He did not seem to mind.
 ''At least I contributed something,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about the Panamanian man whose discovery of a toxic ingredient in Chinese-made toothpaste led to a global consumer storm over products from China misspelled the name of the Chinese province where a factory that produced counterfeit Sensodyne toothpaste was closed. It is Zhejiang, not Shejiang. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eduardo Arias waiting for a bus recently outside his apartment building in Panama City.(pg. A1)
A truck leaving the Colon Free Trade Zone in Panama. Some of the contaminated toothpaste from China that wound up on store shelves this year had been shipped through the trade zone.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT DALTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A8) CHART: Tainted Toothpaste Across the Globe: Chinese toothpaste contaminated with diethylene glycol (DEG), a chemical used in antifreeze, was first discovered in May, in Central America, and has since been found in more than 30 countries.
Common counterfeit brands: Excel, Mr. Cool and Dentamint were among more than 30 contaminated brands.
 Key Developments: MAY-JUNE, AUG.-SEPT. (Source: Local news reports) Chart shows a map of the world, and details various countries and areas of contamination. (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%); MAYORS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN SEA (91%) PANAMA (96%); CHINA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); JAPAN (79%); TONGA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KENYA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007



2 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Why Not Just Play College Roulette?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The New College Try'' (Op-Ed, Sept. 24):
 Jerome Karabel says ''selective colleges serve less as vehicles of upward mobility than as transmitters of privilege from generation to generation.'' One of his solutions is to set aside 5 percent to 10 percent of the seats in an incoming class and choose them by lottery; only students who had reached a high academic standard would be considered. 
 I would go further. At the college-preparatory school where I teach, a few students are clearly standouts in intellect, athleticism or artistic talent. 
 Most students can match those at the top of their class only through extraordinary effort. Such an effort takes a toll on a student's psyche and self-esteem.
 I would have colleges identify and admit students of extraordinary ability; they are usually easy to identify. Then I would put the remaining applicants who meet minimum academic standards into a lottery.
 Such a system might relieve some of the pressure on youngsters today. If they work reasonably hard and participate in extracurricular activities or sports that truly interest them, that should be enough to get them into the lottery. 
 Steve Crampton Englewood, N.J., Sept. 24, 2007
 To the Editor:
 I agree that opportunities for admission to the best colleges are skewed today. But admission to a top school without sufficient financial aid can be a crushing experience, as I found in the 1960s, when I was applying to colleges.
 I found myself financially unable to attend my two preferred schools, even though I was admitted to both -- so near and yet so far. 
 I settled on my third choice, an uncomfortable fit, only because of the financial aid. 
 We should not overlook the importance of truly fulfilling the dreams of many gifted students by getting it right on need-blind admissions for all capable students.
 Ann Hewitt Worthington Loudon, Tenn., Sept. 24, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Jerome Karabel argues that elite universities are at fault for failing to admit the economically underprivileged. To the contrary, schools such as Yale, which I attend, have opened their doors to anyone accomplished enough to be admitted. Most students receive some sort of financial aid, and many get full aid. 
 Mr. Karabel reveals a much deeper failure -- that of public elementary and high school education. Students from poor families often must attend abysmal public schools that leave them utterly unprepared for the rigors of Yale or Harvard. 
 The success of the United States in the 21st century depends on educating all our children. But that does not start when they are 18, and we cannot expect elite universities to admit students who cannot compete. 
 Sabrina Howell New Haven, Sept. 24, 2007
 To the Editor:
 A modest lottery form of admission to elite colleges would provide only a cosmetic cover-up to basic pedagogical problems. Prospective students currently distribute themselves to colleges whose faculty and other characteristics ''fit'' their needs. 
 Mr. Karabel's plan would put a large number of students in environments where they do not ''fit'' and hence where they will not learn and grow. 
 The answer to the sociological phenomena of unequal institutional prestige and status hierarchies is to flatten and democratize them -- permitting institutions of many kinds to boast of their capacities to serve different kinds of students. 
 The ''best'' institutions then might well be those where the faculty are most successful in their educational enterprise, not those who happen to be able to attract allegedly ''better'' students. 
 James L. Bess Amherst, Mass., Sept. 24, 2007 The writer is emeritus professor of education, New York University.
 To the Editor:
 Unfortunately, admitting 5 percent of a class by lottery among ''highly qualified'' applicants would likely diminish the number of disadvantaged students admitted, because it would lead many more highly qualified higher-income students to apply to all the top colleges. 
 A better way for top colleges to address the lack of equal opportunity would be to allocate a large share of seats to applicants who commit to mentor students in low-income neighborhoods, ideally areas that had suffered most from past racism.
 Such mentoring would help prepare disadvantaged students, from kindergarten through high school, to thrive (not just survive) amid talented and well-prepared classmates. It would also teach those top college students about inequality in America first-hand.
 Mark S. Nadel Arlington, Va., Sept. 24, 2007

GRAPHIC: Drawing (DRAWING BY TAMARA SHOPSIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); GIFTED EDUCATION (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); FAMILY (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007



3 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: The Rio Grande Rises

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS J. BESHAROV. 
Douglas J. Besharov is a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research and a professor at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 ACCORDING to a recent report from the Census Bureau, poverty fell from about 12.6 percent in 2005 to about 12.3 percent last year. That's about 500,000 fewer people living in poverty, the first statistically significant decline since 2000. (In 2006, the poverty line was $20,614 for a family of four.) 
 As usual, there was much commentary in the news media about poverty's intractability: today's poverty rate is hardly lower than it was in 1968, when it was about 12.8 percent. 
 But a closer look at the experience of one group, Hispanics, tells a very different story. As a group, Hispanics are enjoying substantial economic progress. Their poverty rate has dropped by a third from its high 12 years ago, falling from 30.7 percent in 1994 to 20.6 percent in 2006. 
 These numbers come from the Census Bureau's Current Population Survey, widely used by pro- and anti-immigration groups alike as a reasonably reliable source of information about illegal as well as legal immigrants. They show that although Hispanics still have a long way to go to achieve the full promise of the American Dream, as a group they are clearly on the economic up escalator.
 In the past 30 years, the United States has experienced a tremendous amount of immigration, predominantly Hispanic. In 1975, a little more than 11 million Hispanics made up just over 5 percent of the population. Today's nearly 45 million Hispanics are now about 15 percent of the country. 
 This influx of Hispanics has resulted in a higher poverty rate in the United States, mainly because many immigrants are low-skilled workers and women with young children. If the proportion of Hispanics in the population in 2006 had been the same as it was in 1975, then the overall American poverty rate in 2006 would have been 7 percent lower (11.4 percent rather than 12.3 percent). That would be 2.4 million fewer people, all Hispanics, in poverty.
 This rough calculation leaves out the indirect impact that Hispanics have had on the job prospects and earnings of other low-skilled workers, especially African-Americans, probably keeping more of them in poverty. Economists argue about the size of this effect, but we see evidence of it all around us. 
 Consider the Hispanic success in obtaining skilled, blue-collar jobs, as measured by the census category for precision production, craft and repair occupations. From 1994 to 2006, as the total number of these jobs grew, the percentage held by whites fell from 79 percent to 65 percent. The percentage held by blacks remained constant at about 8 percent, and the percentage held by Hispanics more than doubled, rising to 25 percent from 11 percent. As whites left these relatively well-paid jobs, Hispanics rather than blacks moved into them.
 Between 1994, the high point for Hispanic poverty, and 2006, the last year with comprehensive data, median Hispanic household income rose 20 percent, from about $31,500 a year in 2006 dollars to about $37,800 a year. The median income of Hispanic individuals rose 32 percent, to about $20,500 from about $15,500.
 These incomes do not make Hispanics wealthy, of course, but they did allow about 70 percent of them to send remittances home last year. According to the best estimate, the total sent was $45 billion -- $4 billion more than the entire amount distributed to Americans by the Earned Income Tax Credit.
 One explanation for this economic progress is increased education. From 1994 to 2005, the percentage of 18- to 24-year-old Hispanics who graduated from high school or obtained a general equivalency diploma rose to about 66 percent from about 56 percent. About 25 percent are now enrolled in college, up from about 19 percent in 1994. Hispanics are moving rapidly into many management, professional and other white-collar occupations.
 Because of the large and continuing influx of usually low-skilled Hispanic immigrants, economists have expected the poverty rate among Hispanics to rise or at least to remain flat. Instead, it is falling. However one feels about immigration, the falling Hispanic poverty rate testifies to the ability of Hispanic immigrants to take advantage of the opportunities that they have found in this country. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (DRAWING BY ANNA BHUSHAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); POOR POPULATION (91%); POVERTY RATES (91%); CENSUS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); FAMILY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); CHILDREN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007



4 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Candor in the Corridors of Power

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
In 1962 the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. was able to comment with equal assurance on both of the Monroes within his orbit: Marilyn (as in ''Happy Birthday, Mr. President'') and James (as in Monroe Doctrine). What's more, he made these unrelated remarks closely enough in time for them to appear on the same page of the 894-page new volume of his journals. 
 This arch, irresistibly revealing book manages to be both showstopping and doorstopping, what with its vast range of subject matter and unfettered private sniping. Mr. Schlesinger, who died on Feb. 28, appears to have spent almost five decades patiently squirreling away aphorisms, apercus and other people's back-channel conversations, confident that one day he would have a posthumous bombshell to his credit.
 Although ''Journals: 1952-2000'' has been greatly and speedily pared down by his sons Andrew and Stephen Schlesinger, who took on this project less than a year ago and have cut the material to one-sixth of its original length, its ambitions seem clear. The author, who could be described as either a treasured historian or ''the power-loving stablemate of statesmen'' (his own sardonic phrase), did not intend this as a profound, analytical work or a deeply personal one. 
 Instead, candor and spontaneity are its highest priorities, even at the expense of consistency. Thus these journals place the author's second wedding and the release of the Pentagon Papers on the same footing. They are lumped together, in the language of an overscheduled but determined diarist, as ''two events of more than routine importance in recent weeks.'' 
 The tone of the journals is sharply incisive, frequently scathing and unburdened by any need to emphasize moral balance. Mr. Schlesinger could sound equally moved by the Kennedy administration's disastrous policy decisions and its glittering social spirit. On April 18, 1961, he recorded both these items: ''I cannot banish from my mind the picture of these brave men, pathetically underequipped, dying on Cuban beaches before Soviet tanks'' and ''J.F.K. was in superb form at lunch.''
 But at the expense of such deplorable juxtapositions, this book skitters freely through a huge variety of memorable topics. And the compression may be more a consequence of editing than of Mr. Schlesinger's haste. In any case, ''Journals: 1952-2000'' presents the bird's-eye view of a prescient Washington insider, busy gadfly and bon-mot artist extraordinaire. The Ford-Carter presidential election, he writes, sounds like the work of Sinclair Lewis: ''Babbitt vs. Elmer Gantry.'' The names of the Nixon courtiers Elmer Bobst, Jack Drown and Bebe Rebozo make him mindful of Evelyn Waugh. When carried away with flattery, Mr. Schlesinger could overplay his verbal skills to the point of rebutting claims of Al Gore's woodenness this way: ''They mean that he is as graceful as a willow, as handsome as a birch tree and as sturdy as an oak.'' 
 The threads of friendship and enmity running through this book are long ones. They lend a novelistic sense of character to Mr. Schlesinger's most enduring connections. His recollections of Henry Kissinger date back to 1960 and describe the wary but unbreakable link between two master manipulators. ''I like Henry very much and respect him, though I cannot rid myself of the fear that he says one sort of thing to me and another sort of thing to, say, Bill Buckley,'' he writes in 1969. Still, Mr. Schlesinger becomes (at least by his account) the confidant to whom Mr. Kissinger could confess all manner of scathing thoughts about presidents. 
 Mr. Kissinger on Nixon: ''He really can't remember whether he has read something in a newspaper or in an intelligence report.'' Mr. Kissinger on Reagan: ''He is the only president with whom I would rather have someone else in the room when I see him. If you talk to him alone, you can be sure that nothing will ever happen.'' And on Dan Quayle: that Mr. Quayle is intelligent and underrated. ''I take this to mean two things,'' Mr. Schlesinger comments: ''that Quayle listens reverently to Henry and that Henry thinks Quayle may be president some day.'' 
 ''Journals: 1952-2000'' is comparably sharp on tensions between Adlai Stevenson and John F. Kennedy loyalists (Mr. Schlesinger, at his slipperiest, managed to be both); Lyndon B. Johnson's legacy (in 1969 Mr. Schlesinger has ''a horrible fear that five years from now he will be one of the most beloved men in America''); student radicals (Mr. Schlesinger has ''the suspicion that 20 years from now most of the people in the room will be quiet insurance brokers or real estate men'') ; the Nixon-Humphrey election (''this is really the battle of the minnows''); Jimmy Carter (''smiling like a complacent basilisk''); and the composition of the Clinton cabinet. ''Have you considered a sex change?'' he says the new vice president, Al Gore, asked him, after telling Mr. Schlesinger, who had his own muted political ambitions, that Madeleine K. Albright had been appointed as ambassador to the United Nations. 
 In these recollections, Mr. Schlesinger described such a far-reaching circle of acquaintance that it ranged from Reinhold Niebuhr to Mick Jagger, from Gina Lollobrigida to the children of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt. (These children are variously described as ''handsome and haggard,'' ''that wreck of a man of talent and potentiality,'' ''that charming cipher,'' ''a meaningless, aging man'' and ''a hopeless slob.'') Although Mr. Schlesinger can be scorching (of President Bill Clinton's fund-raising methods in 1996 he writes, ''this may have been legal, but it is aesthetically displeasing and historically disgusting''), his language more often affects Jane Austen's sunny politesse. ''Amiable'' and ''agreeable'' are among his favorite modifiers; almost any host is found to be ''in excellent form.'' In trying to codify the groovy neologisms of hippies ('''put on,' meaning to kid'') he takes on an even more antiquated tone.
 The lively, confiding voice of these journals is also dutiful, conscientious, ever aware of history, eager to record after-dinner conversations for posterity's sake. There are times, as when the Rolling Stone publisher Jann Wenner says, in 1975, that recession ''greatly contracts one's scope for frivolity,'' that Mr. Schlesinger seems to do something of which he accuses Ben Bradlee's profanity-laced memoirs of John F. Kennedy: putting his own language into others' mouths. But by and large, steadily allotting about 18 pages a year (1999 is unaccountably missing), this book creates a moving and monumental 48-year chronicle. And Mr. Schlesinger, who would have turned 90 on Oct. 15, was still throwing off sparks when, in 1998 during a preliminary hearing on the prospect of a Clinton impeachment, he told a subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee that ''Gentlemen always lie about their sex lives.'' He was pilloried for this and accused of flippancy. 
 ''I have not enjoyed such a fusillade for a third of a century,'' he noted happily. ''It makes me feel young again.''
 JOURNALS 
 1952-2000 
 By Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. 
 894 pp. Penguin Press. $40. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY INGER ELLIOT/PENGUIN PRESS)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); ELECTIONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CUBA (52%)

TITLE: Journals: 1952-2000 (Book)>; Journals: 1952-2000 (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007



5 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Inspires Threat of a Third-Party Run

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Alarmed at the possibility that the Republican Party might pick Rudolph W. Giuliani as its presidential nominee despite his support for abortion rights, a coalition of influential Christian conservatives is threatening to back a third-party candidate.
 The threat emerged from a group that broke away for separate discussions at a meeting Saturday in Salt Lake City of the Council for National Policy, a secretive conservative networking group. Participants said the smaller group included James C. Dobson of Focus on the Family, who is perhaps its most influential member; Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council; Richard A. Viguerie, the direct-mail pioneer; and dozens of other politically oriented conservative Christians. 
 Almost everyone present at the smaller group's meeting expressed support for a written resolution stating that ''if the Republican Party nominates a pro-abortion candidate we will consider running a third-party candidate,'' participants said. 
 The participants said that the group chose the qualified term ''consider'' because it had not yet identified an alternative candidate, but that it was largely united in its plans to bolt the party if Mr. Giuliani, the former New York mayor, became the nominee. The participants spoke on condition of anonymity because the Council for National Policy meeting and the smaller meeting were secret, but they said members of the smaller group intended to publicize the resolution.
 A revolt of Christian conservative leaders could be a significant setback to the Giuliani campaign because white evangelical Protestants make up a major share of Republican primary voters, including more than a third of voters in Iowa and South Carolina.
 But the threat is risky for the leaders of the Christian conservative movement as well. Some of its usual grass-roots supporters might still back a supporter of abortion rights like Mr. Giuliani, either because they dislike the Democratic nominee even more or because they are more concerned with other issues, like the war. 
 In recent polls by the Pew Research Center, Mr. Giuliani has received a plurality of support from white evangelical Protestant voters despite a rising chorus of complaints from Christian conservative leaders about his liberal views on social issues. 
 Some players in the movement not present at the meeting may be open to Mr. Giuliani as the lesser of two evils. For example, the Christian Broadcast Network, founded by the Rev. Pat Robertson, has provided relatively generous coverage to Mr. Giuliani and his campaign.
 Gary L. Bauer, a Christian conservative political advocate who was a Republican primary candidate eight years ago, said that, speaking by phone to the meeting, he urged the group to proceed with caution. ''I can't think of a bigger disaster for social conservatives, defense conservatives and economic conservatives than Hillary Clinton in the White House,'' Mr. Bauer said. 
 He added, ''But I do believe there are certain core issues for the Republican Party -- low taxes, strong defense and pro-life -- and if we nominate someone who is hostile on one of those three things it will blow up the G.O.P.''
 In response to the Christian conservatives, a spokeswoman for the Giuliani campaign provided a statement from Representative Pete Sessions, a Texas Republican who supports Mr. Giuliani, saying, ''Conservatives are rallying around the one candidate with the executive experience and proven leadership our country needs.'' Calling Mr. Giuliani strong on fighting terrorism and ''fiscal discipline,'' Mr. Sessions said Republicans want a candidate who ''can beat the Democratic nominee.'' 
 For months, Christian conservatives have been escalating warnings that nominating Mr. Giuliani could splinter the party. Dr. Dobson wrote a column declaring that he would waste his vote before casting it for either Mr. Giuliani or a Democrat who supports abortion rights, like Mrs. Clinton, of New York. Some conservatives also noted that Mr. Giuliani has been divorced twice and married three times and is estranged from his children. 
 Participants in the group that endorsed the resolution said they had reached their position after hearing an assessment of the state of the Republican primary from Mr. Perkins, who acts as a point man in Washington for the movement. Mr. Perkins told them that Mr. Giuliani could plausibly win the primary if he carried Florida, which has many conservative Christian voters, and that now was the best chance to stop any momentum behind his campaign.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The conservative Christian leaders Tony Perkins, top, and James C. Dobson are part of a group considering an alternative to Rudolph W. Giuliani. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RELIGION (89%); ABORTION (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LIFE LEAGUE (83%); FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (57%); FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (57%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007



6 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Gov. Spitzer Picks Activists To Make State A Bit Greener

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Before Gov. Eliot Spitzer took office in January, there was one recycling bin for cans and bottles in the entire Statehouse. Now 25 blue-topped containers are spread throughout the ornate halls, and more line the paths of the small park behind the Capitol. 
 The recycling containers are a small, visible sign of the heightened environmental awareness that the new administration vowed to bring to Albany. There are other, less obvious signs of a change that not everyone doing business with the state finds reassuring. 
 Mr. Spitzer, who entered office with a solid environmental reputation as attorney general, has drawn from the top echelons of the state's environmental movement in assembling his team. 
 Many of the movement's most passionate advocates now occupy the highest offices of the Department of Environmental Conservation, which had widespread staff cutbacks and a diminished role during the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki. 
 Mr. Spitzer added 100 staff positions to the department in his first budget. But it is the infusion of new blood, some of it running pretty green, that is particularly notable.
 The department's new commissioner, Pete Grannis, is a former longtime member of the Assembly who introduced some of the state's most important environmental laws, including the first bottle bill and the State Environmental Quality Review Act, which has changed the way construction projects are built. Mr. Grannis's director of legislative affairs is Chris Ballantyne, a 20-year veteran of the Sierra Club.
 Mr. Spitzer's deputy secretary for environmental affairs, Judith Enck, has been involved in environmental advocacy most of her adult life. (She had the recycling bins installed in the Statehouse shortly after she was appointed.)
 The director of the new office on climate change, Peter M. Iwanowicz, was the chief policy officer and a clean air advocate for the American Lung Association of New York State. 
 Several of the department's eight regional directors came from advocacy backgrounds: Suzanne Y. Mattei was executive of the New York City office of the Sierra Club; William C. Janeway was director of government relations for the Nature Conservancy; and Elizabeth M. Lowe was managing director of the Natural History Museum of the Adirondacks.
 The officials have re-energized the department and renewed its sense of mission, Mr. Grannis said. But whether they can be effective working with businesses as well as environmental groups remains a question.
 A few early decisions have been met with mixed reviews. In one case, Ms. Enck's previous ties to environmental groups helped resolve a longstanding battle with a developer over a huge golf and ski resort project near Belleayre Mountain Ski Center in the Catskills. She had a hand in keeping everyone at the bargaining table when negotiations seemed to stall this year. The result was a smaller project that kept 1,200 woodland acres untouched, a bargain that delighted most environmentalists. 
 But in another case, a group was dismayed when the new officials drummed up support for the veto of a bill that would have shut down a large hazardous waste dump in the town of Porter, near Lake Ontario. Residents said they had expected more support in their effort to close the dump than they had before. 
 ''The reality for us is that there has been no change,'' said Amy Witryol, who belongs to the group Residents for Responsible Government, which has been fighting for six years to close the dump. Despite the new staff, she said, ''it's the same old D.E.C.'' 
 Businesses and industries regulated by the department have been guarded with their comments so far. But some said they would be watching for signs of bias that hint at a less than fair treatment of issues. 
 ''The real test for Pete and his agency will be to engage the business community and make sure the regulatory process isn't just a regulatory hammer on the economy,'' said Kenneth Adams, president of the Business Council of New York State. 
 ''Everything has to be viewed in the context of achieving a balance between protecting the environment and protecting business,'' he said.
 Mr. Grannis said he expects to eventually have to ''go head to head'' with business and industry representatives, but he promised that everyone would be treated fairly and openly. 
 ''Our goal is to clean the environment, not to fire people or anger industry,'' Mr. Grannis said. He said that he told the former advocates he hired to remember that they now are part of a team, which means ''not tempering passions, but realizing they have a job to do.'' 
 Advocates in environmental groups said they would keep an eye on their former colleagues to see if they could maintain their principles in the face of the competing interests of government. 
 Jason K. Babbie, environmental policy analyst for the New York Public Interest Research Group, said many in the environmental community know these officials have strong track records. ''But ultimately,'' he said, ''we will have to judge them on what they're doing.'' 
 And those who have made the transition from advocacy to regulation are learning that though the issues might be the same as before, their perspectives have changed. 
 ''I have had to learn to temper things and remind myself that I'm not a free agent,'' said Ms. Enck. In the past, she worked as executive director of Environmental Advocates of New York and senior associate for environmental affairs of the New York Public Interest Research Group. Eight years ago, she joined the attorney general's office, advising Mr. Spitzer on environmental issues.
 ''Now I have to approach things with a different style, and spend a lot more time looking at multiple sides of an issue,'' she said.
 Perhaps too much time, according to some. Gavin J. Donohue, president of the Independent Power Producers of New York, said the administration is several months late issuing regulations implementing the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a multistate effort to lower carbon dioxide emissions from power plants. 
 And Philip A. LaRocque, executive vice president of the New York State Builders Association, said builders are not happy that the administration has not yet come to an agreement on refinements to the state's brownfields redevelopment program, which seeks to move forward on the decontamination and redevelopment of tainted industrial sites. 
 The administration officials said they were aware that their past advocacy might be a cause for concern. But they said they hoped that people would remember how they handled issues before taking their posts. 
 ''They know my passion and history, but they also know that I have a reputation for being practical,'' said Mr. Janeway, the new director of Region 3, which covers the lower and central Hudson Valley. Mr. Iwanowicz said that balance is essential. ''If a bill or something we're trying to push through on the regulatory side is one-sided, it probably will fail,'' he said. 
 All of the officials said that they were motivated to join the government team because they wanted to roll up their sleeves and actually do something about the environment, rather than urge somebody else to act. 
 ''Look, I'm an environmentalist, I'm proud of it, and the governor knew that when he hired me,'' said Ms. Enck. ''I know that I can't just be a fierce advocate for the environment now. But neither am I going to be a shrinking violet and not make the case for the environment. I will.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 11, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 1 about former leaders of the environmental movement in New York who are now working for the Spitzer administration misstated the role played by Pete Grannis, the environmental conservation commissioner, in the passage of important environmental laws while he was in the State Assembly. Although Mr. Grannis was a key supporter of laws like the first bottle bill and the State Environmental Quality Review Act, he did not introduce either bill.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judith Enck, 47, is deputy secretary for environmental affairs. She was a senior adviser on environmental issues in the office of the attorney general. Before that, she was senior associate for environmental issues for the New York Public Interest Research Group and executive director of Environmental Advocates.
Pete Grannis, 65, is now commissioner of the Department of Environmental Conservation. He was a New York State assemblyman, author of the bottle bill, the State Environmental Quality Review Act and other environmental legislation. He organized the first Earth Day in New York, in 1970.
Peter M.Iwanowicz, 40, is now director of the Department of Environmental Conservation's Climate Change Office. He was chief policy officer and an environmental advocate for the American LungAssociation of New York State.
Suzanne Mattei, 52, is director of the Department of Environmental Conservation's Region 2. She was the executive for the New York City office of the Sierra Club.
 William Janeway, 44, is director of the Department of Environmental Conservation's Region 3. He was the director of government relations for the Nature Conservancy. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); MOUNTAINS (84%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (73%); LAWYERS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (65%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); RESORTS (62%); SKIING (60%); SKIING FACILITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (82%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (59%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007



7 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of Confidence

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
The unpopularity of George W. Bush has led many to believe global America-hating will ebb once he leaves office on Jan. 20, 2009. That's a dangerous assumption.
 It's dangerous because the extent of American power will continue to invite resentment whoever is in the White House, and because America's perception of the terrorist threat will still differ from that of its Asian and European allies. Asians are focused on growth, Europeans on integration: different priorities cause friction.
 The Iraq-linked damage to U.S. credibility is too severe to be quickly undone. The net loss of Western influence over the world means the ability of Bush's successor to shape events is diminished. 
 Still, the next U.S. leader will enjoy a honeymoon. To prolong it, several steps are essential. The most critical is a switch from the politics of anxiety to the politics of confidence.
 Bush and Cheney never emerged from the 9/11 bunker. Their attack-dog snarl alienated a globe asked to step in line or step aside. The expectation of fealty must give way to the entertainment of dissent.
 The next leader has to be curious. Presidential body language needs to say ''I'm one of you.'' Facebook engagement must supplant fearful estrangement.
 Even a bit of curiosity reveals that kids from Toledo to Tokyo talk about the weather. The consensus on global warming is such that America's refusal to lead the green debate has been disastrous.
 Bush's successor must confront one of this century's central challenges: the transition to a low-carbon global economy. Developing countries, especially China, think we made the mess and should clean it up. Only the United States has the capacity to draw India and China into a post-Kyoto push for cleaner air with undiminished growth.
 Climate is universal. So are many problems, like growing inequality. The world resembles a pool table: movement of one ball propels others. Yet the institutions to deal with it -- the U.N. Security Council or G-8 -- are antiquated.
 ''International institutions are designed for the world as it was rather than as it is,'' says David Miliband, the British foreign secretary.
 The 44th president should push to modernize them in ways that reflect the weight of China, India and Brazil, and economic progress in Africa. Proposing Japan for permanent membership of the U.N. Security Council is not enough.
 The war on terror has been a divisive phrase. It has brought some successes -- America has been kept safe -- but has amalgamated jihadists bent on the West's destruction with national movements like the Palestinian whose goal is distinct. Islam now sees America as enemy.
 The next president can help move beyond polarization by speaking of counterterrorism rather than global wars, focusing on a viable Palestinian state alongside a secure Israel, and coaxing the European Union to admit Turkey.
 A decent medium-term outcome in Iraq demands regional diplomacy involving Turkey, Syria, Saudi Arabia and Iran. In the latter, nonproliferation must prevail. It has prevailed in the past -- in South Africa, Libya, South America. It must be made to work in Iran. The alternative is an unacceptable Middle Eastern nuclear arms race.
 Europe has influence in Tehran. There are now three leaders -- Gordon Brown in Britain, Nicolas Sarkozy in France and Angela Merkel in Germany -- with a genuine liking for America. None were involved in the Iraq acrimony.
 The next president must work with them to squeeze the mullahs. Iran demands unity. So does the propagation of Western values: pluralism, rule of law, independent media, market economies.
 Liberal democracy has taken a battering. A countermodel now exists: the authoritarian-capitalist, or Leninist-capitalist, systems of China and Russia. They have benefited from Iraq's democracy-as-mayhem.
 China is pushing no-strings-attached ''harmony'' in its quiet quest for natural resources and global influence. Petropower has upped Russian testosterone.
 Both countries have a 19th-century view of the 21st century: sovereign great powers will dominate. To manage these ambitions, the next president must cultivate rather than trample on America's global alliances.
 Monk-power in Myanmar suggests that the magnetism of open societies is undimmed. Africa knows enough of despotism to doubt a China model. The American idea can still resonate. The coming leader must embody rather than impose it.
 Pressure on the next administration to turn inward will be strong. Protectionism has appeal to a hard-pressed middle class. Retreat attracts a nation scarred by Bush's radical and bungled overreach.
 But the world will be much more dangerous without the responsible exercise of U.S. power in the name of barrier-breaking instead of barrier-building. The next president must sell that conviction.
 Multilateralism without a global arbiter has been tried. It produced World War I and World War II.
 You are invited to comment at my blog: www.iht.com/passages. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (58%); DAVID MILIBAND (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007



8 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Top Arms Seller to Developing World

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
The United States maintained its role as the leading supplier of weapons to the developing world in 2006, followed by Russia and Britain, according to a Congressional study to be released Monday. Pakistan, India and Saudi Arabia were the top buyers.
 The global arms market is highly competitive, with manufacturing nations seeking both to increase profits and to expand political influence through weapons sales to developing nations, which reached nearly $28.8 billion in 2006. 
 That sales total was a slight drop from the 2005 figure of $31.8 billion, a trend explained by the strain of rising fuel prices that prompted many developing states -- except those that produce oil -- to choose upgrading current arsenals over buying new weapons.
 The report, ''Conventional Arms Transfers to Developing Nations,'' was produced by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service, a division of the Library of Congress, and presents a number of interesting observations linking arms sales and global politics. For example, Russia has been a major supplier of weapons to Iran in past years, including a $700 million deal for surface-to-air missiles in 2005.
 But anxieties over Iran's nuclear program can be seen as having deterred Moscow from concluding significant new conventional arms deals with Iran in 2006, deals that could be viewed as overly provocative while the Security Council debates new sanctions on Iran.
 At the same time, though, Russia continues to nurture an arms-trade relationship that is deeply disturbing to the Bush administration, by signing weapons deals with oil-rich Venezuela and its anti-American leader, Hugo Chavez.
 The Russian agreements with Venezuela in 2006 included the sale of two dozen Su-30 fighter jets valued at more than $1 billion, along with attack and transport helicopters valued at more than $700 million.
 Russia also sold Venezuela a large number of AK-series assault rifles in a deal that included a pledge to build a factory in Venezuela to produce those rifles and ammunition, together valued at more than $500 million.
 ''Venezuela's populist president, Hugo Chavez, has taken a hostile approach to relations with the United States in recent years,'' wrote Richard F. Grimmett, a specialist in national defense at the Congressional Research Service.
 ''Thus his decision to seek advanced military equipment from Russia is a matter of U.S. concern,'' Mr. Grimmett wrote in the report. ''Chavez appears embarked on an effort to make Venezuela an important military force in Latin America.''
 The study makes clear also that the United States has signed weapons-sales agreements with nations whose records on democracy and human rights are subject to official criticism.
 The announcement of major new arms agreements with Pakistan last year renewed debate over whether the Bush administration was elevating its counterterrorism priorities above its pledge to spread democracy around the world.
 Pakistan was a major recipient of American arms sales in 2006, including the $1.4 billion purchase of 36 new F-16C/D fighter aircraft and $640 million in missiles and bombs. The deal included a package for $890 million in upgrades for Pakistan's older versions of the F-16.
 At the same time, the State Department's own survey of global human rights in 2006 noted a variety of shortcomings in Pakistan's record on human rights and democratization.
 But the Bush administration has argued that it is important to maintain the support of a nuclear-armed Pakistan in the broader counterterrorism fight, in particular as Al Qaeda and Taliban leaders regroup in the rugged North-West Frontier Province along the Afghan border.
 In 2006, the United States agreed to sell $10.3 billion in weapons to the developing world, or 35.8 percent of these deals worldwide, according to the study. Russia was second with $8.1 billion, or 28.1 percent, and Britain was third with $3.1 billion, or 10.8 percent.
 Pakistan concluded $5.1 billion in agreements to buy arms in 2006. That total was followed by India with $3.5 billion in agreements and Saudi Arabia with $3.2 billion in deals.
 The combined value of arms sales worldwide to both developed and developing nations in 2006 reached $40.3 billion, a decline of nearly 13 percent from 2005.
 When combining totals for arms sales to developed and developing nations, the ranking of world arms dealers remained the same. The United States led with $16.9 billion, followed by Russia with $8.7 billion and Britain with $3.1 billion. The 2006 sales figures for all three nations were higher than their totals in 2005.
 China plays an interesting role in the arms market, being both a purchaser of advanced air and naval weapons, from Russia, and as a supplier of less-expensive arms to developing nations.
 Mr. Grimmett's study uses figures in 2006 dollars, with amounts for previous years adjusted for inflation, to give a constant financial measurement. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Arms Sales to Developing Nations: Figures are from a new report by Congressional Research Service being released today. There are three bar graphs listed. One for each of the following: TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS, TOP SUPPLIERS, TOP RECIPIENTS. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FIREARMS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); POLITICS (76%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); TERRORISM (63%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (63%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (57%); HELICOPTERS (50%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (83%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); INDIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007



9 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Budget Impasses Forces Shutdown in Michigan

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: LANSING, Mich., Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Michigan began to shut down much of its government early this morning after lawmakers failed to resolve a $1.75 billion budget deficit before the new fiscal year started.
 The House and Senate passed a flurry of bills in the hours before and after a midnight deadline, including an income tax increase and an emergency extension budget that would give lawmakers more time to resolve the deficit. 
 But Michigan's Democratic governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, promised not to sign any extension unless the lawmakers passed measures increasing the state income tax and expanding the sales tax. The state constitution prohibits spending money unless a balanced budget is in place by Oct. 1, the start of its fiscal year.
 Around 1 a.m. today, the Republican-led Senate approved a bill expected to raise $760 million a year by increasing the income tax rate to 4.35 percent from 3.9 percent.
 It passed 20-19, with the state's Democratic lieutenant governor, John Cherry, breaking the tie.
 The House, which Democrats control, had approved the tax increase late Sunday. It had appeared headed toward failure until Governor Granholm, a Democrat, visited the House floor and persuaded two Republican representatives to change their ''no'' votes.
 The House also approved changes to teachers' health insurance, a move demanded by Republicans.
 Earlier, the House approved expanding the state's 6 percent sales tax to cover a long list of services, as varied as tanning and landscaping, that had previously been exempt. The Senate was planning to vote on this bill, which is opposed by many business groups but could be the final piece in a balanced budget that would end the shutdown after only a few hours.
 The legislators worked into the early-morning hours in hopes of preventing a full shutdown, which would temporarily lay off 35,000 of the state's 53,000 employees, including four-fifths of state police troopers. 
 Preparations for the shutdown began Sunday. Campers were ordered to leave state parks, and freeway rest areas were barricaded. 
 Branch offices for the secretary of state and the department of motor vehicles posted signs over the weekend saying they were closed.
 Many offices were filled last week with residents whose driver's licenses or license plates were to expire soon.
 Prisons were to remain staffed.
 State lottery operations, liquor sales and road construction were to be halted. Unemployment offices, which are critical in a state that has lost hundreds of thousands of jobs in recent years, would close.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SALES TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (70%); LOTTERIES (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (66%); STATE PARKS (61%); DRIVERS LICENSES (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: JENNIFER GRANHOLM (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



10 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: In Britain, Bloomberg Turns Up Criticism of U.S. Conservatives

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

DATELINE: BLACKPOOL, England, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has been more openly criticizing President Bush's policies in recent months, lashed out on Sunday at American conservatives who he said engaged in the ''lunacy'' of creating deficits for future generations to pay. 
 Portraying himself as a fiscal conservative despite having increased spending more than any other New York mayor in almost 30 years, Mr. Bloomberg sought to define his own political ideology, telling delegates at the Conservative Party conference here that the key to success was balancing budgets, avoiding deficits, delivering services more efficiently and staying away from politics. 
 ''The Conservative Party in the U.K. is much more fiscally conservative than many American politicians who call themselves conservative,'' he told the crowd at a ballroom at the Winter Gardens. ''Too many of our conservatives in the United States want to run up enormous deficits and hope that some way, somehow, someone else will pay for it. That's not conservatism, that's alchemy at best, or if you like, lunacy.''
 The president, Mr. Bloomberg said after the speech, has, ''I think, never vetoed a budget.'' He added, ''On the other hand, Congress has passed a lot of very big budgets that we can't afford.''
 Mr. Bloomberg has often been criticized by right-leaning policy experts for increasing spending and raising taxes during his administration. But in laying out his theory of good government, he defended his fiscal record, arguing that tax increases were sometimes necessary and that he had been prudent with the city's money, saving surplus revenue for future costs like employee health care.
 At the same time, Mr. Bloomberg said, it was important to spend money to improve quality of life and to create the conditions that attract private-sector investments to diversify and boost the economy. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has been intensifying his criticism of the Bush administration, mainly for what he calls a go-it-alone approach to the Iraq war that he says has severely damaged the United States' reputation abroad. 
 A White House spokesman, Blair Jones, said on Sunday that the president had threatened vetoes on spending bills, but did not have to use them when ''he had the cooperation of a Republican Congress to hold the line on spending.''
 In the last three years, ''the deficit has declined $200 billion and we're on a path to balance the budget within five years,'' Mr. Jones said. ''We're accomplishing all this while keeping taxes low and protecting our nation.''
 Mr. Bloomberg appeared at this downtrodden seaside resort at the invitation of David Cameron, the leader of the Conservative Party, and the mayor's remarks went over well, including several jokes. ''In preparing for this speech, my biggest dilemma was not what to say, but what to wear,'' Mr. Bloomberg said near the start, adding that he decided to go with ''a conservative blue suit, appropriately enough.'' He added: ''I decided to leave my pink suit home just in case I'm ever invited to No. 10,'' a reference to the media stir Margaret Thatcher created on a visit to the prime minister, Gordon Brown, at 10 Downing Street. She wore pink, which was seen as too close to the Labor Party red rather than the Conservative Party blue.
 Mr. Bloomberg's presence, part of a four-day swing through France and England, fueled interest in his presidential aspirations, which he denied having, as usual. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, right, at the British Conservative Party conference, with David Cameron, the party's leader. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBY MELVILLE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VETO (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); LEGISLATION (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); DAVID CAMERON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (79%); ENGLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007



11 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Movers Meet Shakers at Third Annual Gathering of Bill Clinton's Global Initiative

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
As the third annual gathering of the Clinton Global Initiative got under way last week in New York, the people out to change the world mingled with the former president and old Clinton administration hands, as well as corporate and foundation executives with influence and money -- lots of money. 
 Presiding over it all was Bill Clinton. With his book ''Giving'' in the top tier of the best-seller list, and his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, a front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination, a ticket to this event gave its holder entree to a great networking opportunity. 
 It was conceived as a kind of activist answer to the gathering of politicians, business people and academics at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. ''The origin of this is Davos,'' said John Podesta, who was Mr. Clinton's chief of staff in his presidency's final years. ''There was a feeling that everyone was talking about these causes and no one was doing anything.''
 The Clinton event, held over three days at a Sheraton Hotel, featured tightly choreographed sessions to come up with solutions to specific world problems. Each participant was required to promise to do something concrete to make the world a better place. This year's themes were poverty alleviation, global health, education and climate change.
 Here, the people with causes gained access to people with seriously deep pockets. Chad Hurley, a YouTube founder; Larry Brilliant, who leads Google's philanthropic foundation, and Carlos Slim Helu, ranked by Fortune the world's richest man, were among almost 1,300 participants.
 The furious networking was not subtle. Standing in the midst of a loud party at the Museum of Modern Art, Nancy Collins, a journalist who has covered her share of society events, described the gathering as ''one of those where you have to look over your left shoulder for someone more important.''
 In hallways, at cocktail parties and around conference tables, leaders of nonprofit groups hustled for valuable connections. 
 Geeta Rao Gupta, president of the International Center for Research on Women in Washington, who had been sending e-mail requests to meet Mr. Brilliant, saw him in the flesh. She seized the moment to request an appointment. ''He said, 'Come on over,''' a pleased Ms. Gupta said.
 After panel discussions, Christopher A. Crane, who leads Opportunity International, a nonprofit group raising money for loans to start microschools in Africa, approached two chief executives of Fortune 100 companies and leaders of Ghana and Ethiopia. ''I've got to be bold for the poor!'' Mr. Crane explained.
 Bjorn Larsson, who runs a management company in Sweden and serves on the board of the World's Children's Prize for the Rights of the Child, a group dedicated to teaching children about their rights, made what he called ''an elevator pitch'' between the 15th and 18th floors of the Sheraton to a man who he said advised major American philanthropies. ''The guy was so intrigued that we decided to meet 10 minutes later in the lobby,'' Mr. Larsson said.
 Other pairings were purely serendipitous.
 As conferees gathered Wednesday in a ballroom to listen to remarks by Mr. Clinton; Al Gore; H. Lee Scott, Wal-Mart's chief executive; and Desmond Tutu, the former Anglican archbishop of Cape Town; Molly Melching happened to sit a seat away from James R. Greenbaum. 
 Mr. Greenbaum, who sold his telecommunications company, Access Long Distance, in 1999 and started his own family foundation, based in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., had recently returned from Ethiopia, where he had learned to his horror how commonplace female genital-cutting was there. He was hunting for someone he could back who was working to stop the practice.
 Ms. Melching, originally from Danville, Ill., has lived for 33 years in Senegal, and runs Tostan, an organization that has worked with communities at the grass roots and helped more than 2,000 villages in Senegal and almost 300 in Guinea collectively decide to abandon the practice of female genital-cutting.
 When Mr. Greenbaum and Ms. Melching began chatting, his jaw dropped. He told her, ''I've been looking for you!''
 Ms. Melching was amazed to have found an American man so passionate on the issue, especially, she said, since American men tend to be squeamish about it.
 After the session, Mr. Greenbaum ran off. Finding a computer, he went online and logged on to the GuideStar Web site to search Tostan's 990 federal tax form for Ms. Melching's salary as its executive director.
 ''I found she was only pulling in $48,000,'' he said. ''I said, This is someone doing it because her heart's in it.''
 He is giving Tostan $500,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carlos Slim Helu, center, ranked by Fortune the world's richest man, outside the Clinton Global Initiative conference last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGELA JIMENEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHILDREN (86%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); CHARITIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); WRITERS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); BESTSELLERS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); CHILD WELFARE (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN PODESTA (58%); CARLOS SLIM HELU (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); GHANA (79%); SWEDEN (77%); SWITZERLAND (73%); AFRICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007



12 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 854 words

BYLINE: By

 BODY:
A QUARTER FOR CLEANUP Wall Street is also paying the piper this quarter for the subprime loan crisis. Citigroup, for example, has issued a profit warning, like similar actions taken by Merrill Lynch and Bank of America, while big investment banks like Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley have all seen their third-quarter results fall. 
 The biggest bank in Europe, UBS, has reported that it had written down $3.4 billion in the value of mortgage-backed securities and would post a loss in the third quarter, becoming the chief European casualty of the American mortgage crisis. It also plans to cut 1,500 jobs. [C1.] 
 The Dow Jones industrial average soared 191.92 points to close at a record 14,087.55 as investors bought into the banking and housing sectors, a possible signal that Wall Street sees an end to the summer's subprime housing woes. [C1.]
 NOKIA BUYS DIGITAL MAP MAKER Nokia, the world's largest cellphone maker, will acquire Navteq, the maker of digital mapping devices, in an deal valued at $8.1 billion, as it shifts from a handset maker to a provider of mobile services like photos, video, music and games. [C1.]
 FAIR TRADE MAKES INROADS Fair trade produce, which reflects ''concern for the social, economic and environmental well-being of marginalized small producers'' and does not ''maximize profit at their expense,'' remains a minuscule percentage of world trade, but it is growing with some very well known American companies like McDonald's and Starbucks rushing to meet growing demand. [C1.]
 AHOY, FELLOW BILLIONAIRE Sales of yachts have risen 10 percent to 15 percent a year worldwide in the last few years, becoming a must-have for the famous and rich, with, of course, accessories like minisubmarines and helicopters. [C1.]
 NO PRICE SLUMP IN MANHATTAN Declining prices, rising inventory and increasing foreclosure rates may have hobbled many of the nation's housing markets, but they have not yet reached Manhattan and Brooklyn. The people who closed on co-ops, condominiums and town houses in Brooklyn and Manhattan in the third quarter paid more than ever, on average, for real estate. [C14.]
 N.J. SUES OVER HEALTH PLAN New Jersey has filed suit against the federal government, protesting the Bush administration's more stringent eligibility rules for the government health insurance program that covers poor children, known as the State Children's Health Insurance Program, or S-chip. New York said it would file suit, too. [C14.]
 NEW WAYS TO SELL MUSIC The respected British rock band Radiohead is joining other artists like Prince and Madonna in indicating a willingness to try new methods to sell their music, which could steal control of their work from the four multinational corporations that dominate the industry. [B1.] 
 NEW PROTOCOL FROM T.S.A. Aviation security officials said they had begun to thoroughly search passengers -- including possibly children -- carrying remote controls for toys that could be used to detonate a bomb. [A16.]
 EBAY MOVES TO IMPROVE SKYPE EBay is taking a $1.43 billion charge related to the 2005 acquisition of Skype, and said that Niklas Zennstrom, a co-founder of Skype, was stepping down as chief executive of the division, which has fallen short of revenue targets. [C3.]
 INQUIRY ON STEROID SALES China is investigating whether companies are providing and shipping the raw materials to factories that are producing illegal steroids in the United States. The American authorities say 99 percent of all the materials used to produce anabolic steroids in the country come from China. [C6.]
 HUFFINGTON POST'S NEW CHIEF The Huffington Post, an Internet news site, plans to announce the appointment of a new chief executive, Betsy Morgan, who will leave her job as the general manager of CBSNews.com. [C2.]
 A WALKOUT IN HOLLYWOOD? Unions representing 12,000 screenwriters have asked membership to authorize a strike at any time after their contract expires at the end of this month, making possible Hollywood's first industrywide walkout since writers struck in 1988. [C7.]
 ACXIOM SALE FALLS THROUGH The Acxiom Corporation, an information services company, said two private equity firms had backed out of a $2.25 billion buyout plan that would have taken the company private. The company, which agreed to the buyout in May, said the private equity firms, Silver Lake Partners and ValueAct Capital Partners, would pay $65 million in cash to terminate the agreement. With the announcement, Acxiom's stock fell $3.90, or 19.7 percent, to $15.89 a share. [C3.]
 BELO TO SPIN OFF NEWSPAPERS The Belo Corporation plans to spin off its newspapers, which have been struggling to keep readers and advertising dollars, into a new company that will operate separately from its 20 television stations. [C2.]
 SILENCE, PLEASE! Quiet. That's what hotels are consistently trying to achieve, since that is the No. 1 complaint of customers, according to one respected survey. [C8.]
 BUSINESS TRAVEL DECLINE It looks as if business travel will slow over the next year, mainly because of rising costs and flight delays. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C8.] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); POP & ROCK (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); LITIGATION (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (63%); HELICOPTERS (62%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



13 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Everyone Pays, in Dollars

 BODY:
Since the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates by half a percentage point two weeks ago, the already softening dollar has steadily lost value against other major currencies. The morning of the rate cut, one euro bought $1.38. At day's end yesterday, one euro bought $1.42 -- a level at which analysts believe it begins to compete with the dollar to be the world's top currency of choice. 
 Americans tend to think of currency exchange rates only when they travel abroad. In today's global economy, the implications of a weak dollar go much further than that, threatening potentially higher costs in the United States for everything from home heating to consumer goods to mortgages. 
 The recent rate cut was an effort to cushion investor losses from recent turmoil in the financial markets and, in the process, to prevent those losses from harming the rest of the economy. Federal officials become twitchy when such efforts are labeled a ''bailout,'' asserting among other objections that the term should apply only when taxpayers directly bear the burden of an intervention. But the weakening dollar illustrates that government interventions need not be taxpayer financed to pose risks for all Americans.
 Lower interest rates weaken the dollar because they reduce the returns on dollar-based investments. A weaker dollar, in turn, risks higher prices for imported goods. The rise in the price of oil to above $80 a barrel is due in part to a declining dollar as foreign oil producers charge more dollars per barrel to maintain their purchasing power in Europe and elsewhere. 
 A weaker dollar also risks pushing up interest rates because sooner or later global investors demand higher yields to offset the weak currency. Of late, long-term rates have only edged up, but they would be defying gravity to stay down if the dollar continued its decline. Higher long-term rates would further crimp the already ailing housing market, because the interest rates for new mortgages are tied to long-term rates. 
 A falling dollar makes American-made products cheaper abroad, so the downsides of a weakening dollar could be offset somewhat by a rally in American exports. It's doubtful, however, that bolstered exports could significantly overcome the economic drag of higher inflation and steeper borrowing costs. 
 Dollar weakness is home-grown. It is rooted in the borrow-and-spend behavior of the United States government and American consumers and in a corollary lack of domestic savings that necessitates foreign borrowing. That indebtedness was unsustainable, even when the economy was growing robustly. Now it's coupled with a weakening economy and lower interest rates, making foreign lenders increasingly reluctant to hold and accumulate dollars and hastening a downward slide. 
 The public and policy makers must realize that the economic vulnerabilities of a weaker dollar are self- inflicted -- and that the responsibility for fixing them lies squarely with Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); INFLATION (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); IMPORT PRICES (65%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); FOREIGN LENDING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



14 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Our Schools Must Do Better

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Boston
 I asked a high school kid walking along Commonwealth Avenue if he knew who the vice president of the United States was. 
 He thought for a moment and then said, ''No.''
 I told him to take a guess.
 He thought for another moment, looked at me skeptically, and finally gave up. ''I'm sorry,'' he said. ''I don't know.'' 
 The latest federal test results showed some improvement in public school math and reading scores, but there is no reason to celebrate these minuscule gains. We need so much more. A four-year college degree is now all but mandatory for building and sustaining a middle-class standard of living in the U.S. 
 Over the next 20 or 30 years, when today's children are raising children of their own in an ever more technologically advanced and globalized society, the educational requirements will only grow more rigorous and unforgiving.
 A one- or two-point gain in fourth grade test scores here or there is not meaningful in the face of that overarching 21st-century challenge.
 What's needed is a wholesale transformation of the public school system from the broken-down postwar model of the past 50 or 60 years. The U.S. has not yet faced up to the fact that it needs a school system capable of fulfilling the educational needs of children growing up in an era that will be at least as different from the 20th century as the 20th was from the 19th.
 ''We're not good at thinking about magnitudes,'' said Thomas Kane, a professor of education and economics at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. ''We've got a bunch of little things that we think are moving in the right direction, but we haven't stepped back and thought, 'O.K., how big an improvement are we really talking about?' '' Professor Kane and I were discussing what he believes are the two areas that have the greatest potential for radically improving the way children are taught in the U.S. Both are being neglected by the education establishment.
 The first is teacher quality, a topic that gets talked about incessantly. It has been known for decades that some teachers have huge positive effects on student achievement, and that others do poorly. The positive effect of the highest performing teachers on underachieving students is startling.
 What is counterintuitive, but well documented, is that paper qualifications, such as teacher certification, have very little to do with whatever it is that makes good teachers effective.
 ''Regrettably,'' said Professor Kane, who has studied this issue extensively, ''we've never taken that research fact seriously in our teacher policy. We've done just the opposite.''
 Concerned about raising the quality of teachers, states and local school districts have consistently focused on the credentials, rather than the demonstrated effectiveness -- or ineffectiveness -- of teachers in the classroom.
 New forms of identifying good teachers and weeding out poor ones -- by carefully assessing their on-the-job performance -- have to be established before any transformation of American schools can occur.
 This can be done without turning the traditional system of teacher tenure on its head. Studies have clearly shown that the good teachers and the not-so-good ones can usually be identified, if they are carefully observed in their first two or three years on the job -- in other words, before tenure is granted.
 Developing such a system would be difficult. But it's both doable and essential. Getting serious about teacher quality as opposed to harping on tiny variations in test scores would be like moving from a jalopy to a jet.
 The second area to be mined for potentially transformative effects is the wide and varied field of alternative school models. We should be rigorously studying those schools that appear to be having the biggest positive effects on student achievement. Are the effects real? If so, what accounts for them?
 The Knowledge Is Power Program (KIPP), to cite one example, is a charter school network that has consistently gotten extraordinary academic results from low-income students. It has worked in cities big and small, and in rural areas. Like other successful models, it has adopted a longer school day and places great demands on its teachers and students.
 Said Professor Kane: ''These alternative models that involve the longer school day and a much more dramatic intervention for kids are promising. If that's what it takes, then we need to know that, and sooner rather than later.''
 If American kids -- all American kids, not just the children of the elite -- are to have a fair chance at a rewarding life over the next several decades, we've got to give them a school system adequate to the times. They need something better than a post-World War II system in a post-9/11 world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



15 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Doctor's Gender May Be Factor in Heart Diagnoses

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS BAKALAR

 BODY:
Conventional wisdom holds that coronary heart disease is an illness of older men, and that may be why doctors have difficulty diagnosing it in women. But do female doctors at least do a better job than male doctors? Apparently not, a new study finds. 
 The study, published online on Aug. 30 in Sociology of Health and Illness, did find significant differences in the ways male and female doctors diagnosed the illness. It reported that male doctors might be less biased by the gender and age of the patient being examined. 
 ''We're not trying to say that one group of doctors is better than another,'' John B. McKinlay, the principal investigator said. ''What we're trying to do is for the first time describe and explain how much variability there is in doctors' behavior when they look at exactly the same clinical presentation in different patients.''
 The scientists videotaped professional actors portraying patients of varying gender, age, race and socioeconomic status who all had medically apparent symptoms of heart disease. 
 Then 112 male and female primary care doctors, half in Massachusetts and the rest in Britain, watched the videos. The physicians were asked to think of the patient as one of their own, make a diagnosis and suggest a treatment plan. Finally, they were asked to describe what factors they considered in arriving at their decisions.
 Both male and female doctors picked up more psychological cues from female patients than from male patients. A characterization like ''seemed very low'' or ''very depressed'' was more likely to be made about a female patient than a male one.
 Comments about a patient's self-presentation like, ''He doesn't give a very cogent history,'' or, ''She's a passive victim,'' were more common among female doctors, and they made significantly more such observations of female patients. 
 Male doctors noticed fewer such cues in general, and only slightly more from male than female patients. This suggests that doctors, and especially female doctors, may be more sensitive to such information in patients of their own gender.
 Even though older age is a significant risk factor for heart disease in both men and women, female doctors paid significantly less attention to female patients' ages than those of males.
 Dr. Alexandra J. Lansky, an associate professor of clinical medicine in cardiology at the Columbia University Medical Center who was not involved in the study, found the paper revealing. 
 ''The old statement that female docs are better prepared to take care of female patients does not stand,'' Dr. Lansky said. ''Female docs are missing one big point that the male docs don't miss, and that's the age-related factor.'' 
 Not all experts found the report convincing. ''This study clearly says that female and male doctors approach the patient interview differently,'' said Dr. Elizabeth A. Jackson, an assistant professor of medicine at the University of Michigan. ''But they appear to have a similar knowledge base. This was not a real-life situation, and you can't take conclusions from one study in isolation. I'd like to see if these results can be replicated.''
 Dr. McKinlay, who is head of the New England Research Institutes in Watertown, Mass., said the study offered a new way to look at the disparities between men and women in treating coronary heart disease. 
 ''A lot of the time,'' he said, ''health disparities have been explained by characteristics of the patient -- race or economics, women versus men, older versus younger. But here the variability is explained by characteristics of the doctor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); HEART DISEASE (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (89%); CARDIOLOGY (78%); MEN (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



16 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Growth Ebbs, Reviving Talk of a Rate Cut

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The nation's manufacturing industries expanded at a slower-than-expected pace in September, suggesting that there might be room for the Federal Reserve to consider another rate cut when it meets at the end of the month. 
 The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group, said yesterday that its manufacturing index registered 52.0 in September, down from 52.9 in August. It was the lowest reading since the gauge was at 50.9 in March. Analysts had expected a reading of at least 52.5.
 A reading of 50 or more suggests expansion, while one below 50 suggests contraction.
 Thomas J. Duesterberg, chief executive of the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, of Arlington, Va., said the positive aspects in manufacturing outweighed the negatives.
 ''Within manufacturing,'' he said, ''the positives are aerospace, exports of things like electrical equipment and machinery, chemicals in general and for export. On the negative side, autos are sluggish domestically, construction materials for the residential market are pretty weak, things like appliances and furniture are somewhat weak.''
 Still, he said he expected the Fed's monetary policy committee to lower rates by an additional quarter of a percentage point at its Oct. 30-31 meeting, if only to prevent weakness in housing from hurting the broad economy.
 In yesterday's manufacturing report, the index of new orders fell to 53.4 from 55.3 the previous month, and the index of new export orders declined to 54.5 in September from 57.0 in August. The production index fell to 54.6 from 56.1.
 The employment reading edged up to 51.7 last month from 51.3 in August.
 The inventory index dropped to 41.6, the lowest since January, after a reading of 45.4 in August.
 Norbert J. Ore, chairman of the institute's survey committee, said that manufacturing ''is apparently in excellent shape with regard to inventories.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); NEW ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (67%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



17 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Momentum Seems to Build For an Independent Kosovo

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WOOD

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Kosovo, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
Expectations here for an independent Kosovo, often dashed in the past, are on the rise again, as the world powers that will help determine the province's fate are again pushing to separate it completely from Serbia despite continued resistance from the Serbs and their allies, the Russians.
 There is a sense of growing momentum as European and American officials make preparations to set up a mission, led by the European Union, that would oversee the establishment and running of an independent state under a plan set forth in April by a United Nations mediator. 
 Buildings have been leased and civil servants recruited for the mission, and an American deputy head of mission is already in place.
 European Union officials appear to be running out of patience with Russia, which has resisted efforts to grant Kosovo independence from Serbia. The European officials say the latest round of negotiations between Kosovo and Serbia should not be allowed to drag out past the Dec. 10 deadline set by Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general. 
 ''There is a clear determination that this is a key deadline,'' said Cristina Gallach, spokeswoman for the chief European Union foreign policy representative, Javier Solana. ''This is absolutely fundamental. There should be no further delay in terms of additional mechanisms'' for talks, she said from Brussels in an interview.
 The United Nations has administered the province since 1999, the end of the war with the Serbs that cost the lives of thousands of ethnic Albanians in Kosovo and left hundreds of thousands expelled from their homes.
 In April, after 14 months of failed talks between Kosovo and Serbia, many believed that self-determination for Kosovo had become a near certainty after the United Nations mediator, Martti Ahtisaari, recommended that the province be granted a supervised independence. 
 But Russia resisted the recommendation in the Security Council. Rather than risk a Russian veto, the Council ordered a new round of talks between the ethnic Albanians, who demand independence, and the Serbs, who say they will not give up a province so central to Serbian history and culture. Those talks, which were led by the European Union, the United States and Russia, concluded Friday in New York, producing no more than an agreement to meet again on Oct. 14. 
 Washington strongly supports eventual independence for the province, but Moscow backs Belgrade in its insistence that Kosovo must remain part of Serbia, albeit with wide-ranging autonomy.
 According to one European Union official based in Kosovo, the mood among the union's member states is moving increasingly toward recognition of an independent Kosovo, with or without a Security Council vote. 
 ''We can no longer accept a Russian veto on E.U. policy,'' said one European Union official in Kosovo, who is not authorized to speak to the press and spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''I believe we will still have the Ahtisaari plan, but without a Security Council resolution.'' 
 Other European Union officials said the union might have the authority to set up its mission in an independent Kosovo under United Nations Resolution 1244, which transferred control of the province from Serbia to the world body after the 1999 conflict. That would mean the Union would not need Security Council recognition of Kosovo for the mission or to justify the continued presence of NATO-led troops there. 
 But there are signs of disagreement. Some European diplomats say an independence plan that lacks the support of the Security Council carries many difficulties.
 A majority of European Union states, for example, might be unwilling to support the new union-led mission or to deploy troops in the region if Kosovo has no clear legal status.
 Also, the leadership of the European Union has committed to a unanimous decision on Kosovo. But Cyprus, Greece, Romania and Slovakia have said they will not support any plan without a United Nations resolution.
 ''Everybody in Kosovo was speaking in February 2006 about independence by July,'' Gen. Xavier Bout de Marnhac, the French head of the NATO-led peacekeeping force in Kosovo, said in Pristina Sept. 21. 
 ''Today we are in 2007,'' he added, ''still with a big question mark ahead of us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A pro-independence slogan in the ethnically divided city of Mitrovica. Kosovo is administered by the United Nations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FILIP HORVAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: JAVIER SOLANA (55%); BAN KI-MOON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SERBIA (99%); EUROPE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); ALBANIA (92%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



18 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: For the Yachting Class, the Latest Amenity Can Take Flight

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: MONACO 

 BODY:
Massimo Vilardi, an executive with Eurocopter, came to this year's Monaco yacht show to sell helicopters. 
 Helicopters? At a boat show? 
 Yacht sales have increased 10 to 15 percent a year worldwide in the last few years, and this year has been no exception. Many among the rich or famous want a yacht, and what buyers want most now, naturally, are accessories: minisubmarines and helicopters. 
 ''Today, a megayacht is indispensable,'' said Olivier Milliex, head of yacht finance at the Dutch bank ING. ''It's not like 15 years ago, when a yacht was a luxury item.''
 Stock markets may be volatile and the price of oil rising, but none of that dampened the mood here last month at the boating fair in Monaco. Europeans often watch boat fairs to judge the overall health of their economies. But Monaco may not be the best bellwether -- if other boating fairs are pret-a-porter, Monaco is haute couture. 
 The annual event, is hardly the largest in a series of fairs that run from Cannes, France, to Genoa, Italy, to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., at the end of October. The Monaco fair, which ran from Sept. 19 to Sept. 22, limits the number of exhibitors to about 500; moreover, many yacht builders do not even show yachts. Their customers do not want off-the-rack yachts; they want custom-built boats that will not be replicated.
 ''Our motto is, 'To create what money can't buy,''' said Mr. Vilardi, head of marketing in the business and private market segment of Eurocopter, a unit of the EADS aerospace group. ''You're looking at a global offer: a car, a yacht, a helicopter, maybe a plane.'' 
 One bauble that more yacht buyers are asking for is a helicopter. Of course, that means adding a pilot and a mechanic to the yacht's crew, but for the people who buy these yachts, that is hardly a concern.
 So Mr. Vilardi has linked up with the British yacht brokers Edmiston to meet their wishes. At Monaco this year, Edmiston showed a 200-foot yacht with Eurocopter's smallest helicopter, which sells for about $2 million, perched atop. 
 Across the fair from Edmiston, the Dutch company U-Boat Worx showed its colorful two-seater submarine -- whose bulbous shape made it look like something Mickey and Minnie Mouse would drive -- with a list price of $246,000. The minisub, said Erik Hasselman, U-Boat Worx's head of sales and marketing, is ideal for stowing on a yacht, but for safety reasons can dive only to about 160 feet, where there is still surface light. ''It's only for recreation,'' he said. 
 The bankers at the trade fair, said Mr. Milliex of ING, were doing cross-selling: offering tax and finance advice to the same people whom they serve as private banking clients. Some wealthy customers, for instance, prefer a mortgage for their yacht, taking advantage of low interest rates, rather than tying up cash in a yacht purchase.
 Others need advice on creating a corporate entity to buy their yacht, rather than purchase it directly, to save on taxes, or on registering their boat in a foreign country to enable them to pay lower Social Security contributions for crew members. Many of the yachts moored here were registered in George Town, in the Cayman Islands.
 ''Anyone who is in the oil business, naturally, is going to be motivated to build a yacht,'' said Hans-Erik Henze, senior vice president for yachts of Blohm & Voss, a division of the German steel maker Thyssen-Krupp. ''And that's where we do a lot of our business.''
 Blohm & Voss had the largest yacht at the show, the 345-foot Lady Moura, but it was moored offshore and not available for visiting by the crowd since it was too large to navigate Monaco's narrow harbor. Mr. Henze said the company's three yards had 15 yachts under construction.
 ''Once, 100 meters was thought big,'' he said, or 328 feet. ''Now we have several projects above that.''
 With yachts of this size and cost, many of the yards are dependent on the whims of their customers. Lurssen Yachts of Germany showed no boat this year because the owner of the yacht they wanted to display declined. ''He said he'd prefer to go cruising in Greece,'' said Sylke auf dem Graben, Lurssen's marketing manager. ''But he promised we can have it for Fort Lauderdale, at the end of October.''
 Despite the ostentation of Monaco's yacht shoppers, some bargain hunters come here, and they, in turn, attract shipbuilders from low-cost countries. One of those was Timmerman Yachts, a Russian-Polish enterprise with yards in Moscow.
 The yards build yachts in five sizes, from 85 to 155 feet, and there are 12 under construction. Asked why someone in Monaco would buy a Russian yacht, Irina Bogatyreva, a company official, replied unabashedly, ''The price is cheaper, and the quality is the same as in other countries.'' 
 Indeed, some of the biggest yachts are owned by Russians. Roman A. Abramovich, the tycoon, owns at least three, and has another under construction, the 540-foot Eclipse, which according to Monaco newspapers will be outfitted with twin helicopter landing pads and a submarine.
 The high price of oil, whose byproduct diesel oil is used in yachts, did not seem to worry anyone in this rarefied crowd. ''I would say this market can withstand a lot of fluctuations as the economy worsens,'' said Diane M. Byrd, executive editor of Power & Motoryacht, the trade publication. ''It's a small group of owners, a handful of people, and it's still growing.''
 Nor did the anemic United States dollar appear to be having much influence on the flow of orders. Westport Yachts of Seattle, Wash., which showed a 164-foot, $29 million yacht, said that of five 112-foot yachts it would build next year, all have been sold. Of five 130-foot-yachts, three were sold.
 It may even be helping, since foreign buyers can now more easily afford a purchase with their stronger currency. Scott Sirach, a company official, said of the 130-foot boats that one was for delivery to South America, two to Europe and one was on its way to Dubai. ''We're on time and on budget,'' he said. ''Most companies cannot do that.''
 What did seem to be creeping into the business is an awareness of the environment. In a narrow display area, Lance Sheppard offered a foam and fiberglass product that replicates wood like teak, hence sparing the forests. ''These days it's hard to get all types of veneers,'' said Mr. Sheppard, marketing director of Digital Veneer, a unit of the SMI Group, a Whangarei, New Zealand, company. ''A lot of teak is illegally lumbered, some by the Chinese, in Burma and Nepal.''
 But the boat that dripped green, in spirit if not color, was a 164-foot yacht built by the Italian yard Mondo Marine. Renato Polo, a company official, listed the yacht's environmental assets: devices to recuperate its used water, filters on its twin diesel engines to capture particles from the exhaust, a hull covering that is benign to its marine environment, filtered glass to diminish the heat on board and hence reduce the need for air-conditioning.
 The $34 million yacht was built for Luciano Benetton, of the clothing chain whose ads have promoted social causes, and Mr. Benetton named it Tribu (Italian for tribe), for his large family. Mr. Benetton gave the yacht five spacious bedrooms, each with its own bath, plus two exercise rooms and a sauna. The master bedroom features a baby grand piano, since Mr. Benetton's companion is a pianist. The galley, with Mr. Benetton's wine cellar next to it, would probably suffice for a small restaurant.
 Asked how much the environmental features would add to the bill for such a boat, Mr. Polo replied, ''On a boat of this size, the difference in cost is laughable.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A helicopter parked on a yacht last month at the Monaco boat fair. Some wealthy boat fanciers are seeking to buy helicopters as accessories. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VALERY HACHE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg C1)
The port of Monaco during the show. The event, which ran from Sept. 19 to Sept. 22, limited the number of boats to about 500.
A seaplane displayed at the yacht fair, for those in the market for a nautical accessory.
 A minisubmarine, a high-ticket recreational item that can go no deeper than 160 feet. Large yachts docked at the Monaco boat show. The event, one of several in a trans-Atlantic series, is known for attracting a clientele for whom money is no object. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALERY HACHE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (93%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOAT BUILDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BOAT DEALERS (73%); HAUTE COUTURE (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); TRADE SHOWS (65%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (63%)

COMPANY: EUROCOPTER SA (58%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (58%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (58%); EAD (MCE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (70%) FLORIDA, USA (76%) MONACO (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); ITALY (55%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



19 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: City Agrees to Help Regulate Delaware River by Releasing Water From Reservoirs

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
Under intense pressure from anglers, environmentalists and angry residents of downstream communities devastated by floods three years in a row, New York City has agreed to change the way it operates its huge Delaware River reservoirs. 
 The city started a practice yesterday that is to continue at least through the next three years, releasing up to a total of 35 million gallons a day from three of its largest reservoirs into the Delaware River to maintain regular temperatures and water levels in the river. 
 Many fly fishermen supported the new plan because they said it would protect the river's brown and rainbow trout, which attract fishermen from around the world and have become an important part of the local economy. Some environmentalists say that by making regular releases of water, the city will be restoring some of the Delaware's natural rhythms and flows. 
 But many residents of riverside communities in four states along the 330 miles of the Delaware are unhappy with the plan and critical of the way the changes were accepted in secret at a meeting last week of representatives of New York City and the four states: New York, New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania. They said the plan would do little to prevent or even mitigate the kind of catastrophic floods that swept down the river in 2004, 2005 and 2006, causing several deaths and millions of dollars in property damage. 
 Community groups have collected 12,000 signatures demanding that New York City permanently lower the levels of the Cannonsville, Pepacton and Neversink Reservoirs to 80 percent of capacity so that stormwater runoff can have a place to go rather than charging down the river in flash floods. They said that would have lessened the effect of the last three floods.
 A large scroll containing the 12,000 signatures was presented last week at a public hearing of the Delaware River Basin Commission, the body established in 1961 to oversee the water resources of the area. 
 ''We look to you to protect all of us, not just New York City,'' said Eleanor Miller, a resident of New Hope, Pa. ''All we ask is that you do your job.'' 
 About 200 people attended the public hearing, but were surprised to find that a decision had already been reached on the new water management plan. 
 ''What a weasel of a deal,'' said Elaine Reichart, a resident Belvidere, N.J., and member of Aquatic Conservation Unlimited, a community group demanding that the city lower its Delaware River reservoirs. 
 Under the terms of a 1954 decree by the United States Supreme Court, New York City is allowed to take up to 800 million gallons of water a day from the Delaware River. But the decree also requires the city to ensure that there is enough water left in the Delaware to adequately supply downstream communities like Trenton and Philadelphia, which also draw drinking water from the river. 
 The flow of water downstream also has to be strong enough to keep ocean saltwater from coming so far up Delaware Bay that it threatens freshwater intakes that supply Philadelphia. 
 New York has adamantly resisted lowering its Delaware River reservoirs by 20 percent all year long. Paul Rush, director of West Hudson operations for the city's Department of Environmental Protection, which runs the water system, said the three Delaware River reservoirs were now below 70 percent of capacity. If they had been lowered at the beginning of this summer, he said, the city would be close to a drought warning now. 
 ''Maintaining a 20 percent void in the reservoirs would pose a large risk to the water supply,'' Mr. Rush said. 
 The new plan would lessen flood risk somewhat, Mr. Rush said, because the city would release more water during wet periods than it does now, creating space for stormwater runoff in the reservoirs. 
 He conceded that the most critical time of the year for flooding, the spring, was also when the city would be trying to store as much water as possible for the peak summer period. 
 Until the new plan took effect, the city had to maintain excess water in its Delaware reservoirs to be released when the temperature of the river water rose too high and threatened the trout, which require cold water and strong flows. State conservation officials could order the city to release cold water from the bottom of the reservoirs, lowering temperatures and increasing flows. 
 The new plan, with its regular releases throughout the year, is intended to change that. ''This takes us away from the piecemeal, bit by bit approach,'' said Cathleen Curran Myers, the Pennsylvania representative on the basin commission. ''It may not be perfect, but it gives up a good framework within which to look at the whole picture.'' 
 Under the terms of the 1954 Supreme Court decree, certain changes can be made by the unanimous consent of the four states and New York City. But the regulations enforcing those changes must be approved by the commission. 
 Although the new plan went into effect on an interim basis yesterday, the commission will take public comment for several months and hold a formal public hearing before voting next year on the new regulations. 

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Adjusting the Flow'' New York City will release up to 35 million gallons daily from three major reservoirs into the Delaware River for at least the next three years. The plan is meant to regulate freshwater levels and temperature downstream and minimize flooding in some areas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); RIVERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FISHES (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); WATER QUALITY (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DELAWARE, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



20 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Noises Off, Please

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
The recorded voice that answers the phone at Acoustiblok Inc. in Tampa, Fla., speaks quietly. So does the chief executive, Lahnie Johnson, though Mr. Johnson says it is not by design.
 ''I wasn't really aware of that,'' he said, softly.
 But Mr. Johnson is in the business of thinking about sound, specifically how to reduce it. And the hotel industry has been turning to people like Mr. Johnson, whose company makes a range of sound-insulation construction products, because hotel guests are increasingly demanding a quiet night's sleep. 
 Mr. Johnson, 49, came to noise abatement as a noise generator. In 1983, he founded a company called Sensuous Sound Systems, which sold high-end home entertainment audio systems with bass sounds that would go through ''10 feet of steel,'' Mr. Johnson said. But then he saw new opportunities to ''do a 180-degree turn.'' 
 ''You're paying for a decent hotel and you're hearing the people in the next room talk about what they'll have for breakfast? That's unacceptable,'' he said. ''You should be able to expect some privacy.'' 
 Hotel guests typically complain about things like poor service, dirty rooms and unreliable or costly Internet hookups. But a recent J. D. Power and Associates guest satisfaction survey found that customers said noise was their top concern in every hotel segment except the luxury niche.
 Even in the luxury segment, however, noise is an issue, especially as older hotels undertake renovations.
 ''Some hotels make the mistake of not even acknowledging to guests a renovation that is clearly going on,'' said Paul M. McManus, the chief executive of Leading Hotels of the World, an alliance of more than 430 luxury hotels.
 Older luxury hotels often were built ''like the Maginot Line, with enormous thick walls,'' Mr. McManus said. They were essentially soundproof. But when hotels add plumbing or wiring to a structure built like that, he added, they have a temporary noise problem that they need to acknowledge to guests and work on. 
 Builders of hotels like the Four Seasons always consider acoustics and ''do things to a construction standard, with double-glazed windows, sufficient insulation in and padding on the walls -- even the grade of the carpeting has to do with it,'' Mr. McManus said.
 On the other hand, some hotels, especially in the luxury market, deliberately encourage the kind of bustle and excitement in lobbies and bars that can lead to noise seeping into guest rooms.
 ''If you look at certain brands, there is this tremendous amount of activity and buzz,'' Mr. McManus said. ''The vibrant lobby and bar action is part of what attracts guests. Never mind that the property is a converted single-room-occupancy with thin walls. At these places, I think the rooms are almost an afterthought. They put in Philippe Starck sinks and the guests are happy.'' 
 But other less fashionable hotels have found it difficult to balance a thumping nightlife scene downstairs with the demands of guests upstairs who want a good night's sleep. 
 One example is Shephard's Beach Resort, a hotel in Clearwater Beach, Fla., with a large and popular nightclub on the ground floor. The resort had problems renting rooms on the first five floors because of the noise until it hired Mr. Johnson's Acoustiblok company to soundproof walls, ceilings and floors. 
 ''They're now doing quite well,'' Mr. Johnson said. 
 Acoustiblok says it is supplying its sound-insulation products for Trump Tower hotels in Chicago and Las Vegas and other major hotels, including an Intercontinental Hotel under construction in Pakistan.
 Construction techniques can dampen noise. But when other guests are generating a commotion, it can and should be addressed as a matter of basic social manners, said Susan Fitter, a consultant on etiquette who travels frequently to give seminars, usually in hotels.
 Being disturbed by loud talking, high-volume televisions and music and in-corridor rackets ''happens to me all the time,'' Ms. Fitter said.
 She said the hotels must ''take a position on the matter of guests being considerate to other guests, and to really respond to complaints.'' At the same time, she said, hotels can train employees to avoid making undue noise themselves, and to deal politely but effectively with loud and inconsiderate guests.
 She does not suggest that a guest confront the perpetrator. ''Taking it into your own hands and putting your head out the door or knocking on a door to ask someone to be quiet, this can sometimes raise safety issues,'' she said. ''Oftentimes, people who are loud are drunk.'' 
 Of course, one person's annoying noise is sometimes another person's basic routine, with no offense meant. Ms. Fitter said she recently took her daughters to their dormitories in separate colleges in Virginia and was amazed at what is considered a normal level of noise. 
 ''The dorms encourage the kids to keep their doors open. Yet the kids seem to be in bliss,'' she said. 
 Given different notions of tolerance, ''We all can be taught new ways to show consideration toward one another,'' Ms. Fitter said.
 Jay Modhwadiya opened a Hampton Inn in June near a busy rail-freight line in Kingston, N.Y. He thinks that abatement is great, but prevention is more prudent. His hotel has eight-inch walls between rooms.
 ''We're only about 100 yards from the railroad tracks, and it's very noisy, very annoying,'' he said. Mr. Modhwadiya said he owned two independent hotels before building the Hampton, which is a midlevel brand in the Hilton chain popular with business travelers. He plans to build more.
 Mr. Modhwadiya said he used Acoustiblok products throughout construction, and ''it has tremendously worked for us'' in reducing rail and highway noise.
 ''It's a bit expensive upfront, but it pays off,'' he said. ''At any hotel being built today, it is very essential to put in sound-deadening insulation to reduce the noise problem from room to room.''
 As a builder, he said, ''my major concern is I want a quality hotel. We want to grow in this industry and have a good name.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The developer of the Hampton Inn in Kingston, N.Y., which has a noisy rail-freight line about 100 yards away, built the hotel with soundproofing in mind. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LODGING (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); NOISE POLLUTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (76%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (76%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (75%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); MARKETING SURVEYS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%)

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



21 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Buck Trend, For Now

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Declining prices, rising inventory and increasing foreclosure rates may have hobbled many of the nation's housing markets, but they have not yet reached Manhattan and brownstone Brooklyn.
 The people who closed on co-ops, condominiums and town houses there paid more than ever, on average, for real estate in the third quarter of this year.
 Four reports issued yesterday by the city's major residential real estate brokerage firms showed that apartments closing in Manhattan in July, August and September sold for the highest average sale price ever and that the inventory of homes for sale declined over all. 
 On average, buyers spent $1.37 million for a Manhattan apartment, a 6.3 percent increase from the corresponding period last year, according to one report, by Prudential Douglas Elliman. The number of apartments on the market fell by nearly a third, to 5,204, in the last quarter, compared with 7,623 a year earlier, the report said.
 These numbers indicate that the real estate market was even stronger in the summer, traditionally a slower season for real estate, than it was in the spring, when prices rose in some segments of the market -- like new condominiums and the largest apartments -- but not all.
 Two brokerage firms -- Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property -- said in their reports that prices had risen for nearly every type of apartment in almost every neighborhood of Manhattan, from bare-bones studios in the borough's northernmost reaches to luxurious four-bedroom apartments on the Upper East Side. Prices in Brooklyn, which had dipped in the second quarter, rose by 11 percent last quarter for apartments and town houses.
 ''This is one of the best quarters that we've ever had,'' said Pamela Liebman, president of the Corcoran Group, which also released a report yesterday. 
 But brokers and the economists who prepared the reports stressed that the numbers mainly reflected buyers who went to contract for apartments weeks before the national credit crisis hit and before many people grew more cautious about buying. For instance, many of the co-ops that closed in the last quarter actually went into contract during the spring, and many buyers of newly built condos put down payments on their apartments months, even years, before their units were finished this summer. 
 Jonathan Miller, executive vice president and director of research for Radar Logic Inc., which tracked the numbers for Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that any qualms buyers might have had because of the credit crisis this summer would not have shown up in the third-quarter data. 
 ''Housing is a trailing indicator of economic conditions,'' Mr. Miller said. ''We most likely won't see a reaction until after the new year to the credit crunch.''
 But buyers in neighborhoods in some parts of Brooklyn and Queens have already been hit. The number of foreclosure auctions jumped by 64 percent last quarter, to 698, compared with the same period last year, out of some three million households in New York City, according to PropertyShark.com. 
 These foreclosures are concentrated in a few neighborhoods, notably Jamaica and Howard Beach in Queens and Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn. 
 Still, brokers said that prices in Manhattan have held up far better than in the rest of the country because co-ops, which make up roughly 70 percent of the city's housing stock, have rules that can prevent buyers from using the riskier mortgages that were prevalent elsewhere in the country. 
 ''More than any other market in the country, there is tremendous equity in our homes,'' said Hall F. Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens. ''It's a strong, solid market with a lot of equity, not a lot of inventory and strong demand.'' 
 While sales prices for Manhattan co-ops lagged far behind condos in the second quarter, as is typical, they rose in the third quarter because there were far fewer co-ops to choose from as inventory declined, said Dottie Herman, president of Prudential Douglas Elliman. 
 ''They're not building co-ops anymore,'' she said. ''So there's a finite number.''
 The biggest gains in prices in Manhattan were for three- and four-bedroom apartments and the most expensive apartments on the market. 
 On the Upper East Side, apartments with four bedrooms or more cost an average of $6.6 million -- 17 percent more than a year ago, according to data released by Brown Harris Stevens. On the Upper West Side, apartments with three or more bedrooms cost an average of $4.5 million, a 46 percent jump from last year. 
 Prices for the most expensive Manhattan apartments -- the top 10 percent of sales -- were the second highest on record. The average sale price for a luxury apartment was $5 million, behind only the second quarter of 2005, when it was $5.2 million.
 In Brooklyn, the number of sales rose. Buyers in Brooklyn closed on 311 condos and 173 co-ops last quarter, compared with 210 condos and 167 co-ops a year earlier, according to data tracked by the Corcoran Group. 
 ''Brooklyn is finally starting to reap the rewards of all the new construction,'' said Ms. Liebman, the Corcoran Group president. 
 The number of sales of single-family houses and town houses in Brooklyn rose by 63 percent from the previous year. That might have been partly because prices in the borough are much more attractive than in Manhattan: The average single-family home in Brooklyn sold for $1.6 million, compared with $5.8 million in downtown Manhattan.
 Gregory J. Heym, an economist who prepared the market studies for Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property, said that New Yorkers will not know where the market is headed until the effects of the credit crisis are clear: Jobs may be lost on Wall Street and bonuses may shrink. 
 ''In the rest of the country, housing markets are doing poorly because there's too much inventory, people are having a hard time getting mortgages and local economies are beginning to slow -- none of which has happened here yet,'' Mr. Heym said. 
 For New York to see a downturn, he added, ''something more dramatic is going to have to happen.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article and a subheading on Tuesday about the strength of the New York real estate market in the third quarter of this year referred incompletely to the share of the market made up of co-op apartments. Co-ops make up about 70 percent of the ''for sale'' market, not the total housing market. (Rental apartments represent 76 percent of the New York City market; the remainder is apartments ''for sale.'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); TRENDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



22 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Labor Agreement Calls for More Closings

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Mary M. Chapman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
General Motors plans to close as many as 13 factories, four more than it previously announced, within the next four years if members of the United Automobile Workers union approve a tentative contract that union leaders have said will save jobs.
 An engine plant in Livonia, near Detroit, would close in 2010, according to the text of the contract, which U.A.W. members began to review over the weekend. Other plants vulnerable to being closed, according to the contract, are a small-engine plant in Parma, Ohio; a metal-stamping plant in Indianapolis; and a stamping plant in Flint, Mich. 
 Together, the four plants have about 2,500 employees. Many of their workers are eligible to retire with full benefits, and the contract states that G.M. is to offer more buyouts, which would ease the process of cutting jobs.
 Anyone laid off, however, would be subject to new restrictions on the length of time they could continue receiving pay and benefits under a longtime job-security provision known as the Jobs Bank.
 ''It's time to retire, is what it means for me,'' said Rich Jerome, 55, who works at the Livonia plant and has been with G.M. for 37 years. ''I'm not going to go to another plant and start over.''
 Paul Holdinski, the Livonia plant union chairman, said the plant had seemed to be on its last legs for some time. It has just 300 hourly workers, down from about 1,400 when Mr. Holdinski started there in 1985, and the V-8 engines that it builds for Cadillac sedans are not as popular in a time of high gas prices and pressure for fuel economy.
 ''A plant this size, it's like family,'' he said Monday. ''We knew it was coming, but when I saw it in writing, it was a bittersweet moment for me.''
 The plant closings are among the negative aspects of the contract that workers are learning about since union leaders unanimously approved the deal Friday. All 73,000 of G.M.'s hourly workers are scheduled to vote on the deal by Oct. 10. 
 U.A.W. members have often said in the past that they did not find out about problems with a contract until after they approved it, which has some in the union concerned that there is even more bad news lurking in this deal.
 ''The old-timers have a saying that they show you the highlights but you won't know the lowlights until a year later,'' said Gregg Shotwell, who heads a union dissident group called the Soldiers of Solidarity. 
 ''We're not surprised at all,'' he said. ''G.M. has never lived up to its job-security promises, and the U.A.W. has never held them accountable.'' 
 But union leaders say the tentative agreement, which was reached last week after a two-day national strike, improves workers' job security over all. The deal calls for 3,000 temporary workers to be made full employees, with regular pay and benefits, and for what the U.A.W. has labeled a ''total moratorium on outsourcing.''
 Under the contract, G.M. would open one new plant in Flint, which would build as many as 1,200 engines a day. The new plant would open in 2011 and replace G.M.'s Flint North engine plant, a 102-year-old factory -- formerly part of G.M.'s sprawling ''Buick City'' manufacturing complex -- that already had been scheduled to close in 2010. It is expected to have 600 to 800 hourly workers, up from the 400 who now work at Flint North.
 Bill Jordan, president of U.A.W. Local 599 in Flint, said workers who had attended informational meetings about the contract Sunday were jubilant. He said this was the first time in a long while that G.M. had committed to continue building engines for more than a few years.
 ''You can't plan for anything in your life when it's like that. You can't buy a house,'' said Mr. Jordan, who called the deal ''really innovative'' and ''much better than expected.''
 But workers across town at G.M.'s Flint stamping plant have been given no firm indication of their future. The agreement says that G.M. will keep the stamping plant running at least until the contract expires in four years, but does not commit any new products to the plant, saying only that the company and the union will ''explore opportunities for current Flint seniority employees.''
 Workers at the engine plant in Parma must cope with similar uncertainty. The contract says, ''No future powertrain products will be allocated to Parma,'' where 126 hourly employees are scheduled to continue production until 2010.
 Likewise, G.M. does not have new product plans for its stamping plant near downtown Indianapolis, where 850 people work, and plans to close or sell it by 2011, according to the contract, although the company says it will consider keeping the plant open.
 The closings would be in addition to nine others, including those of assembly plants in Oklahoma City and Doraville, Ga., and a foundry in Massena, N.Y., that General Motors had previously said it would close as part of its reorganization.
 G.M. officials declined to comment, and U.A.W. officials did not return calls seeking comment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: U.A.W. members met in Lansing, Mich., on Saturday to review the tentative contract that ended a two-day strike against G.M. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN W. FOWLER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLE METAL STAMPING (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); SEDANS (79%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); METAL STAMPING (77%); SMALL ENGINE MFG (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



23 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Are Making Brazil's Savannah Bloom

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: PLANALTINA, Brazil 

 BODY:
Anyone curious to know how Brazil has become what the former secretary of state, Colin L. Powell, calls an ''agricultural superpower'' -- poised to overtake the United States as the world's leading exporter of foodstuffs -- would do well to start here in this busy network of government laboratories. 
 The sprawling labs and experimental fields are operated by Embrapa, Brazil's agricultural and livestock research agency, and have become an obligatory stop for any third world leader visiting Brazil.
 Although little known in North America, Embrapa has in three decades become a world research leader in tropical agriculture and is moving aggressively into areas like biotechnology and bio-energy. 
 ''Embrapa is a model, not just for the so-called developing world, but for all countries,'' said Mark Cackler, manager and acting director of the Agricultural and Rural Development Department of the World Bank. ''A key reason that Brazil has done so well with its agricultural economy is that it has invested heavily and intelligently in front-end agricultural research, and Embrapa has been at the forefront of that effort.'' 
 Embrapa owes much of its reputation to its pioneering work here in the cerrado, the vast savannah that stretches for more than 1,000 miles across central Brazil. Written off as useless for centuries, the region has been transformed in less than a generation into Brazil's grain belt, thanks to the discovery that soils could be made fertile by dousing them with phosphorus and lime, whose optimum mixture was established by Embrapa scientists. 
 When the annual World Food Prize was awarded last year to two Brazilians affiliated with Embrapa, the citation called the emergence of the cerrado ''one of the greatest achievements of agricultural science in the 20th century.'' 
 Embrapa also championed the main crop for the region by developing more than 40 tropical varieties of soybeans, which had been thought of as only a temperate zone crop.
 ''When I was working in India and Pakistan and the Near East countries in the 1960s and 1970s, nobody thought these soils were ever going to be productive,'' Norman Borlaug, an American agronomist who won the Nobel Peace Prize for work that earned him the title ''father of the Green Revolution,'' said in a telephone interview from Iowa. ''But Embrapa was able to put all the pieces together.''
 As a result, Brazil is today the world's top exporter of soybeans and beef and a fast-rising exporter of cotton, three-quarters of which it produces here in the cerrado. Encouraged by that success, Embrapa scientists have turned their attention to wheat. Brazil now imports most of its wheat from nearby countries with temperate climates.
 ''We think the potential is enormous,'' said Roberto Teixeira Alves, general director of the cerrado research center at Embrapa. ''We launched two new varieties of wheat with good yields just last year, and believe there is also a strong possibility of adapting barley to the region.'' 
 Embrapa's laboratory in Manaus, in the heart of the Amazon, has also been studying ways to make carbon sequestration more efficient. Scientists have been examining what are known as ''Amazonian dark earth soils,'' small, fertile islands that were built up by pre-Columbian Indian tribes and that have especially high concentrations of phosphorous.
 ''We don't know why that should be, but we are trying to understand and reproduce that phenomenon so that we can benefit from it now,'' said Wenceslau Teixeira, a soil scientist who is in charge of the effort. ''These islands have especially stable levels of carbon, which helps retain nutrients and is thus both quite useful and hard to find in tropical soils.'' 
 And although Brazil's sugar-based ethanol program is largely focused elsewhere, Embrapa has an agro-energy division that is concentrating on ways to grow diesel fuel. Embrapa scientists have identified some 30 plants that could be used in such programs and are focusing on palm oil. 
 ''Palm oil's composition is one of the best for production of bio-fuels,'' said Maria do Rosario Lobato Rodrigues, the director of the Manaus laboratory, where the research is based. ''It has a high capacity to fix carbon, doesn't require the use of chemical products to produce, and no part of the plant is ever wasted.'' 
 Under Embrapa's newly broadened definition of agriculture, nothing seems off limits, from a tropical hog that is lower in fat and cholesterol than its American counterpart and has a higher yield of loin and ham, to the extraction of bio-polymers from spiders. At the Embrapa executive dining room in Brasilia, there are even place mats made with varieties of natural cotton fibers, which, because they grow in shades of green and tan, could cut costs of dye stocks for textile manufacturers.
 Getting adequate financing is always a problem for any public research institution in Brazil. Two years ago, though, the Brazilian Congress passed a law that allows Embrapa to profit from its research and has widened the agency's ability to form joint ventures. 
 ''Being entrepreneurs is new for us, but we need to transform our knowledge into riches,'' Silvio Crestana, Embrapa's director-general and a soil-physics specialist, said in an interview in Brasilia. Beyond royalties, he said, the agency wants to attract venture capital. 
 Initially, most such agreements were with Brazilian companies. But Embrapa and BASF, the German chemical maker, recently announced a partnership to develop and market a genetically modified, herbicide-resistant soybean that is expected to be on the market by 2012 and will compete with Monsanto's Roundup Ready brand.
 With the support of multilateral lending and development bodies like the World Bank, Embrapa is also trying to raise its profile abroad. Although it has long had exchange programs that have brought scientists from Latin America, Africa and Asia to work at its laboratories, Embrapa only recently opened its first overseas office, in Ghana, headquarters of the Forum for Agricultural Research in Africa.
 ''This is a good and potentially important move, because there are plenty of places in Africa, such as Zambia, that have savannahs with soil and rain conditions similar to Brazil's cerrado,'' Mr. Borlaug said. ''I think that soybeans and corn, together with beef production and improved pasture grasses for grazing, are all things that will be fit to transfer from Brazil.''
 Like the Brazilian aircraft manufacturer Embraer, which has found a profitable niche selling commuter jets, Embrapa seems keen to focus on marketing the know-how it has developed in crops and products that are often ignored by research institutions in the industrialized countries of the Northern Hemisphere. 
 ''Brazil has a comparative advantage through its own experience that is very relevant in a tropical context,'' Mr. Cackler said. ''To take one example, how many American universities are going to put much effort into cassava? It's just not a priority for them. But tens of millions of people depend every day of their lives on cassava, so we at the World Bank are delighted that Brazil is willing to develop and transfer that technology.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PIONEERS: In the labs and fields of Brazil, Embrapa has become a research leader in tropical agriculture. In Belem, above, an instructor taught students how to collect seeds. In Manaus, a chemist analyzed vegetal tissues, below left, and a nursery worker tended Cupuacu fruit.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LALO DE ALMEIDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F3) MAP Map details area of Planaltina, Brazil. (pg. F3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CROP RESEARCH (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AGRONOMY (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (72%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); CLIMATOLOGY (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); BEEF (60%)

COMPANY: EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA (EMBRAPA) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS114111 FINFISH FISHING (90%); SIC0912 FINFISH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



24 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Fair Trade In Bloom

BYLINE: By ANDREW DOWNIE

DATELINE: VARGINHA, Brazil 

 BODY:
Rafael de Paiva was skeptical at first. If he wanted a ''fair trade'' certification for his coffee crop, the Brazilian farmer would have to adhere to a long list of rules on pesticides, farming techniques, recycling and other matters. He even had to show that his children were enrolled in school. 
 ''I thought, 'This is difficult,''' recalled the humble farmer. But the 20 percent premium he recently received for his first fair trade harvest made the effort worthwhile, Mr. Paiva said, adding, it ''helped us create a decent living.'' 
 More farmers are likely to receive such offers, as importers and retailers rush to meet a growing demand from consumers and activists to adhere to stricter environmental and social standards.
 Mr. Paiva's beans will be in the store-brand coffee sold by Sam's Club, the warehouse chain of Wal-Mart Stores. Dunkin' Donuts, McDonald's and Starbucks already sell some fair trade coffee. 
 ''We see a real momentum now with big companies and institutions switching to fair trade,'' said Paul Rice, president and chief executive of TransFair USA, the only independent fair trade certifier in the United States.
 The International Fair Trade Association, an umbrella group of organizations in more than 70 countries, defines fair trade as reflecting ''concern for the social, economic and environmental well-being of marginalized small producers'' and does ''not maximize profit at their expense.'' 
 According to Fairtrade Labelling Organizations International, a group of fair trade certifiers, consumers spent approximately $2.2 billion on certified products in 2006, a 42 percent increase over the previous year, benefiting over seven million people in developing countries. 
 Like consumer awareness of organic products a decade ago, fair trade awareness is growing. In 2006, 27 percent of Americans said they were aware of the certification, up from 12 percent in 2004, according to a study by the New-York based National Coffee Association.
 Fair trade products that have experienced the biggest jump in demand include coffee, cocoa and cotton, according to the Fairtrade Labelling Organizations. 
 Dozens of other products, including tea, pineapples, wine and flowers, are certified by organizations that visit farmers to verify that they are meeting the many criteria that bar, among other things, the use of child labor and harmful chemicals. 
 There is no governmental standard for fair trade certification, the same situation as with ''organic'' until a few years ago. Some fair trade produce also carries the organic label, but most does not. One important difference is the focus of the labels: organic refers to how food is cultivated, while fair trade is primarily concerned with the condition of the farmer and his laborers. 
 Big chains are marketing fair trade coffee to varying degrees. All the espresso served at the 5,400 Dunkin' Donuts stores in the United States, for example, is fair trade. All McDonald's stores in New England sell only fair trade coffee. And in 2006, Starbucks bought 50 percent more fair trade coffee than in 2005. 
 Fair trade produce remains a minuscule percentage of world trade, but it is growing. Only 3.3 percent of coffee sold in the United States in 2006 was certified fair trade, but that was more than eight times the level in 2001, according to TransFair USA.
 Although Sam's Club already sells seven fair trade imports, including coffee, this will be the first time it has put its Member's Mark label on a fair trade product, which Mr. Rice of TransFair called ''a statement of their commitment to fair trade.'' 
 He added, ''The impact in terms of volume and the impact in terms of the farmers and their families is quite dramatic.''
 Michael Ellgass, the director of house brands for Sam's Club, said the company could afford to pay fair trade's premium because it has reduced the number of middlemen. 
 Coffee usually passes from farmers through roasters, packers, traders, shippers and warehouses before arriving in stores. But Sam's Club will buy shelf-ready merchandise directly from Cafe Bom Dia, the roaster here in Brazil's lush coffee country. 
 ''We are cutting a number of steps out of the process by working directly with the farmer,'' Mr. Ellgass said.
 Some critics of fair trade say that working with thousands of small farmers makes strict adherence to fair trade rules difficult. 
 Others argue that fair trade coffee is as exploitive as the conventional kind, especially in countries that produce the highest-quality beans -- like Colombia, Ethiopia and Guatemala. Fair trade farmers there are barely paid more than their counterparts in Brazil, though their crops become gourmet brands, selling for a hefty markup, said Geoff Watts, vice president for coffee at Chicago's Intelligentsia Coffee and Tea, a coffee importer.
 But in Brazil, a nation with little top-grade coffee, the partnership between small producers and big retailers is a better blend, Mr. Watts said.
 Fair trade coffee farmers in Brazil are paid at least $1.29 a pound, compared with the current market rate of roughly $1.05 per pound, said Sydney Marques de Paiva, president of Cafe Bom Dia. 
 Most coffee farmers are organized into cooperatives, and some of that premium finances community projects like schools or potable water.
 Like most of his cooperative's 3,000-odd members -- and three-quarters of coffee growers worldwide -- Mr. Paiva, the coffee farmer (no relation to Mr. Marques de Paiva), farms less than 25 acres of land. He produces around 200 132-pound sacks for the co-op, with 70 percent of that sold as fair trade to Cafe Bom Dia. 
 The company would buy more if there were more of a market for fair trade coffee, it said. 
 The fair trade crop brought Mr. Paiva about 258 reais ($139) a sack, compared with about 230 reais for the sacks that were not fair trade. For the latest crop, that meant an additional 3,920 reais ($2,116) for him, a huge sum here in the impoverished mountains of Minas.
 ''It's been great for us,'' Mr. Paiva said with a huge, toothless grin. ''I call the people from the co-op my family now.''
 Mr. Ellgass, the Sam's Club executive, said the chain hoped to expand its fair trade goods. 
 So do Brazil's farmers. ''Everybody is doing their best to come up to standard so we can sell our coffee as fair trade,'' said Conceicao Peres da Costa, one of the co-op's growers. ''Everybody wants to earn as much as he can.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sam's Club, the warehouse chain of Wal-Mart, is buying fair trade coffee from the Cafe Bom Dia roaster in Varginha, Brazil. Above, sacks of beans at Cafe Bom Dia's storage area. Rafael de Paiva, below, is paid a premium for his fair-trade coffee. (pg. C1)
Cans of fair-trade coffee at Cafe Bom Dia in Varginha, Brazil. The company ships coffee already roasted and ground.
 ''Everybody is doing their best'' to meet fair trade standards, said Conceicao Peres da Costa, a coffee farmer, with her grandson. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LALO DE ALMEIDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE FARMING (90%); COFFEE (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); PESTICIDES (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FOOD LABELING (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); CHILD LABOR (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (74%); PRIVATE LABELS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); BRANDING (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); AWARENESS MARKETING (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (84%); SAM'S CLUB (69%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



25 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Budget Deal in Michigan Restores State Operations

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Michigan's government resumed full operations on Monday morning after lawmakers approved two tax increases and gave themselves an extra month to resolve a $1.75 billion budget deficit.
 Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, a Democrat, told the employees to report to work on Monday after the Republican-led Senate approved the tax increases by separate 20-to-19 votes. The second decision came about 4 a.m., and both required a tie-breaking vote from Lt. Gov. John D. Cherry Jr.
 ''This budget agreement is the right solution for Michigan,'' Governor Granholm said in a statement. ''We prevented massive cuts to public education, health care and public safety while also making extensive government reforms and passing new revenue. With the state back on solid financial footing, we can turn our focus to the critical task of jump-starting our economy and creating new jobs.'' 
 Governor Granholm had promised not to sign any budget extension unless the lawmakers passed measures increasing the state income tax and expanding the sales tax. The State Constitution prohibits spending money unless a balanced budget is in place by Oct. 1, the start of its fiscal year.
 About 1 a.m. Monday, the Senate approved a bill that is expected to raise $760 million a year by increasing the income tax rate to 4.35 percent from 3.9 percent.
 The House, which Democrats control, had approved the tax increase late Sunday. It had appeared headed toward failure until Governor Granholm visited the House floor and persuaded two Republicans to change their ''no'' votes.
 The House also approved changes to teachers' health insurance, requiring the biggest districts to shop for cheaper coverage, a move demanded by Republicans.
 Earlier, the House approved expanding the state's 6 percent sales tax to cover a long list of services, as varied as tanning and landscaping, that had been exempt. The Senate finished voting about 4 a.m. on the bill, which had been opposed by many business groups, prompting Governor Granholm to call off a partial shutdown that began over the weekend. The legislators worked into the early morning hours in the hope of preventing a full shutdown, which would have been politically embarrassing and economically damaging. 
 Of the state's 53,000 employees, 35,000 were temporarily laid off, including four-fifths of the state police troopers.
 Some effects of the shutdown became apparent on Sunday. Campers were ordered to leave state parks, freeway rest areas were barricaded, and several drawbridges were left up. Traffic-monitoring cameras went dark at midnight.
 All departments opened as usual on Monday. Branch offices for the secretary of state, Michigan's equivalent of the department of motor vehicles, had posted signs over the weekend saying they would be closed. Many offices were filled last week with residents whose driver's licenses or license plates were soon to expire.
 Prisons remained staffed through the shutdown, as were other departments viewed as critical to residents' health and safety.
 A lengthier shutdown would have halted state lottery operations, liquor sales and road construction. Unemployment offices, which are critical in a state that has lost hundreds of thousands of jobs in recent years, would have closed.
 The job losses are in large part responsible for the deficit facing Michigan this year. Many businesses have closed or moved to other states, and Detroit's automakers have eliminated tens of thousands of jobs at factories and their headquarters here.
 Michigan's unemployment rate, 7.4 percent, is the nation's highest, compared with the national average of 4.6 percent. Foreclosures have occurred in the Detroit area at nearly five times the national pace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); SALES TAX (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); POLICE FORCES (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); INCOME TAX (67%); DRIVERS LICENSES (60%); STATE PARKS (60%)

PERSON: JENNIFER GRANHOLM (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



26 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Is This the America of 9/11, or 9/12?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''9/11 Is Over,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Sept. 30):
 Thanks to Mr. Friedman for his column about 9/11. I have been dismayed for the last few years by our nation's response to the events of that day. For all of our claims of national strength and resiliency, we have been behaving in a manner that reveals a mood of weakness and fear that has been encouraged by the policies and pronouncements of this administration. 
 I hope that now others will come to the realization of the truth of Mr. Friedman's words and start to move toward a more rational and productive response to the dangers and promises of the 21st century. 
 Ann Maurer Newburyport, Mass., Sept. 30, 2007
 To the Editor:
 9/11 has not ''made us stupid''; it's the cynical exploitation of it by our elected officials to further any ideological cause that has made the country stupid. 
 The only thing that changed on 9/11 was that our leaders, who mocked nation-building, discovered that the wretched conditions we help maintain around the world for the economic benefit of a few of us can backfire on the country. 
 Now our effort seems to be lopsidedly directed toward building fortress America to protect the concentrated wealth of the few, instead of relieving conditions around the world that foster terrorism. 
 Michael O. Scheinberg Austin, Tex., Sept. 30, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman writes that ''9/11 has made us stupid,'' and then, in an unusually candid admission, appears to include his own reaction to the terrorist attacks in that judgment. Kudos. But then he goes on to describe the Iraq war as ''chasing that rainbow.'' 
 This sort of cheery, Judy Garland imagery is no way to describe a ''stupid'' policy that has resulted in the deaths of many tens of thousands, the displacement of millions and the squandering of hundreds of billions. 
 Steve Vinson New Paltz, N.Y., Sept. 30, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman is correct. 9/11 has knocked America off balance. But how do we ''get things right again''? 
 As a society, we can elect leaders who articulate openness and hope in their policies. But we must also reflect inwardly, notice when we are susceptible to fear in our day-to-day lives, and teach ourselves to get past it. For many of us, this may mean resisting the climate of anxiety cultivated by officials in Washington. That, rather than the threat of a terrorist attack, is the bigger obstacle to our sense of real security. 
 Ted Lardner Gates Mills, Ohio, Sept. 30, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman's plea ''to get our groove back'' could not be more timely. Every time I ride the PATH train into the World Trade Center station, I see the raw, gaping wound of ground zero. It transports you back, and holds you. We must not remain frozen in time. 
 As eloquently described by Mr. Friedman, America is falling behind, mired in the past. Remaining so will not bring our loved ones back. Returning stronger and moving to 9/12 will do more to preserve the legacy of lost lives. In fact, that may do more for the war on terror than any effort in Iraq. 
 Victoria Lee Emerson, N.J., Sept. 30, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Yes, Thomas L. Friedman is right about getting over our 9/11 mentality. But where are on earth did he come up with ''I will not vote for any candidate who is not committed to dismantling Guantanamo Bay and replacing it with a free field hospital for poor Cubans''? 
 Cuba may not be the wealthiest nation in the Western Hemisphere, but it has gained worldwide recognition for its exemplary health care system and excellent medical care. 
 ''Poor Cubans'' don't need a ''free field hospital.'' What they could really benefit from would be an end to our government's embargo on trade and an end to the denial of what should be every American citizen's right to unrestricted travel to their country. 
 Marc Beallor New York, Sept. 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); DISPLACED PERSONS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007



27 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SHANGHAI JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Where West Met East, and Then Asked for a Dance

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
Somehow all conversations at the Paramount ballroom in Shanghai manage to wend their way toward what might ordinarily be considered an unwelcome topic: the ballroom dancers' ages.
 The Paramount is just that kind of place, a palace of retro in a city with its gaze fixed far more intently on a bright-looking future than on its often brilliant but tumultuous past.
 But more often than not, it is the dancers who bring up the question, proudly daring a visitor to try to guess their age. 
 It might be a rich business tycoon in his 90s who shuffles through halting steps propped up by a fine-boned dance partner seven decades his junior. Or it might be a well-heeled tai-tai, a Shanghai homemaker out for her regular escape from tedium.
 The reason the age question comes up with such regularity is not because this relic of a place makes its habitues feel old -- quite the contrary. Whatever their description, the regulars here are all but unanimous on one point: it's their frequent turns at the fox trot or the tango or the rumba that help keep them feeling young.
 ''Look at me, I'm still upright,'' said a slim and stylishly dressed woman who gave her name only as Yoshimi. ''I don't go the gym and I don't diet, either. My regimen consists of coming here twice a week and enjoying myself dancing.'' 
 With a wink, the woman, a 49-year-old Paramount regular, who is half-Chinese, half-Japanese and divorced, added: ''And it works.''
 In a city that is rapidly losing the remaining traces of its last great boomtown era in the first decades of the 20th century, the Paramount has not only somehow managed to survive. It stands out.
 By early evening, its approaches are clogged with hurrying commuters talking quickly into cellphones and dodging sidewalk vendors hawking everything from copied DVDs to Shanghai-themed Monopoly boards on narrow, hectic side streets. 
 Turn onto Yuyuan Road, though, and no matter how many times one has seen it, there is a moment of surprise. With its bright neon Art Deco trimmings, the building could be a giant and lavish set prop from the Buck Rogers era, or a gaudy transplant from the old Miami Beach.
 That the building has survived to stand in this form today, though, has been a small miracle, considering the countless reincarnations it has undergone since it was built in 1933 by Chinese bankers. It started out as a casino and favorite gathering place of high society, but went steadily down the economic ladder, first as a favorite after-work stop for government clerks and other members of a growing Chinese middle class, and then deteriorating into a preferred hangout of wiseguys and their molls.
 ''The dancing culture was so popular that almost everyone in the office, what we call white collar workers today, or bourgeoisie, people who work for foreign companies, would go dancing after work,'' said Chen Zishan, a professor of language and literature at East China Normal University, in Shanghai.
 The Paramount was not the city's only ballroom. At the peak of the dancing craze, in the late 1930s, there were at least 200 of them. But the Paramount, with its auspicious-sounding Chinese name, Bai Le Men, or Gate of 100 Pleasures, was situated right where the city's so-called International Settlement and its indigenous quarters converged, and thereby came to occupy a special place in the city: a meeting point of the two worlds.
 Very often, this came to mean well-heeled Western men and Shanghai's famed taxi girls, who vied to sell their services as dancing partners and escorts.
 ''When guests wanted to flatter a popular dancer or to promote them, they would ask the girl to sit beside them and give them gold ingots,'' said Qiu Suhui, a manager of the ballroom. ''Most of the guests were rich or powerful people, and the dancing girls were the most sociable and beautiful women in Shanghai. The dancing room was old Shanghai in miniature.''
 When the Communist Party took power in 1949, the city's moneyed classes fled or faced persecution, the taxi girls disappeared, jazz was banned and finally, in 1956, the Paramount was closed. Sometime later it reopened under a new name, the Red Capitol Cinema, and became a place for uplifting Socialist films and productions. 
 As the decades passed, the once-grand building grew ratty. In the mid-1990s, as China's economic reforms came belatedly to Shanghai, a portion of the building was turned into a small movie theater. It was not until 2001, when a Taiwanese businessman, Zhao Shichong, invested $3 million for its renovation, that the building began to recover some of its original grandeur.
 Today, the walls of a red-carpeted stairway are lined with glamour shots of Shanghai starlets from 70 years ago. Big-band music oozes out into the corridors, and when visitors finally step into the ballroom, the highly polished wood floors, the dramatic lighting and the couples that seem to float about have been known to give people a flashback.
 It can feel like being aboard a great ship in the heyday of ocean liners. What's certain is that 2007 seems far away.
 For Wu Yongmei, a successful, semiretired businesswoman who owns a large air-conditioning company, that's just fine. ''I once went to the Paramount just to have fun and saw the people dancing and felt so jealous,'' she said. ''It was so beautiful.''
 Ms. Wu, like many of today's well-heeled regulars, visits frequently, usually in the afternoon, when the serious dancers turn out. Like the others, she takes private lessons and chooses her outfits carefully.
 ''If someday the Paramount closes, even if they say there is some other place to dance, it won't mean anything to me,'' said Ms. Wu, who is in her early 50s. ''This is old Shanghai, and as a Shanghai person, if there's no more Paramount, it just won't suit me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On the floor of the Paramount Ballroom in Shanghai, where dancers enjoy a setting that evokes the glamour of decades ago.
 The Paramount Ballroom, built in 1933, once again beckons to Shanghai in the night.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARIANA LINDQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (61%); BANKING IN CHINA (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%); MIAMI, FL, USA (66%) EAST CHINA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (66%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



28 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Food Dollars Buy Less, International Agencies Differ Over How to Use Aid

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
As escalating food and shipping costs have slashed the amount of food the United States can buy to feed the world's hungry, aid agencies and charitable groups are deeply divided over how best to use what is available.
 Officials representing more than a dozen aid groups, including Catholic Relief Services and Food for the Hungry, testified Tuesday at a Congressional hearing that Congress should increase the food aid budget and use a larger share of it for long-term antipoverty programs. 
 They told a House appropriations subcommittee that Congress should mandate that one million metric tons of food, instead of the current 750,000 metric tons, go to long-term programs, which could help people facing chronic hunger feed themselves and escape dependency on food aid. The government should be prohibited from raiding the money in this ''safe box'' to cope with food emergencies, they said. ''This is robbing Peter to pay Paul,'' said Sean Callahan, executive vice president of overseas operations for Catholic Relief Services. 
 But officials from the United States Agency for International Development and the United NationsWorld Food Program warned that such a spending mandate would severely reduce the flexibility the United States government needs to quickly deliver sufficient food in emergencies.
 The safe box that the nonprofit groups are advocating, said James Kunder, acting deputy administrator of Usaid, would more likely become ''a pine box for some poor people around the world.'' 
 And Josette Sheeran, executive director of the World Food Program, which distributes more American food aid than any other organization, said the mandate could lead to a major reduction in the United States' contribution for emergency aid. It could also diminish the ability of the World Food Program to respond to emergencies, like wars, earthquakes and floods.
 Underlying the intensity of this disagreement is the worsening scarcity of food aid. The United States food aid budget has stayed flat in recent years, but it bought 2.4 million metric tons of food in 2007, compared with 5.3 million metric tons in 2000 because of rising logistical and food costs.
 New data from the Department of Agriculture show that the prices paid for food for the main United States food aid program have risen 35 percent in 2006 and 2007. Ms. Sheeran told the panel that the World Food Program is projecting that what it pays for food will increase 35 percent in the next two years. 
 The United States' fast eroding ability to use food aid to help tens of millions of the 850 million people worldwide who are hungry has also heightened the debate among charitable groups about reforms in a system that finances many of their projects.
 These groups not only deliver food aid in emergencies, they also sell about $180 million worth of often highly subsidized American farm goods in poor countries to generate revenues for their long-term antipoverty programs. These sales are known as the ''monetization'' of food aid.
 CARE, which in recent years has sold more food aid than any other group, has broken with the other nonprofit organizations. It opposes the safe box they champion, not only because it would limit Usaid's ability to respond to emergencies, but because it probably would increase the amount of food aid monetized.
 CARE, which did not testify at the hearing, has decided to largely stop selling food aid in poor countries by 2009 on the grounds that such sales are a highly inefficient way to raise money and can undermine peasants in those countries who are trying to grow and market the same or substitute crops.
 This year, as Congress has begun to pay more attention to the debate about reforming food aid, the boom in ethanol made from corn has helped drive up food prices and further eroded such aid.
 Noting the rising food costs, Representative Rosa DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut, who led the hearing, repeatedly asked the administration officials who testified why they had not asked for a bigger food aid budget for 2008 -- and said that Congress had fully financed what they had requested. 
 The officials replied that there were many competing priorities. ''It appears that those requests are just not adequate for the job that needs to get done,'' she told them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (92%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (84%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); FOOD FOR THE HUNGRY (58%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



29 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Ducks Built to Reflect a Black-and-Blue Style

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
Brian Burke laughs at the idea that is so widely shared in the N.H.L. that it qualifies as a cliche. Burke, the idea goes, builds his teams in his own image. After all, his Anaheim Ducks -- as his Vancouver Canucks once were -- are feisty bordering on bellicose, a phrase that should headline Burke's resume.
 His Ducks reflect his preference for speed and toughness. They do not back down from fights; in fact, they frequently start them.
 Burke sits atop the hockey world these days, as general manager of the defending Stanley Cup champion Ducks, who began the season over the weekend by splitting two games against Los Angeles in London. 
 Burke could bask in the championship glow and feed the cliche, except that one of his other qualities is blunt honesty, which prompts him to poke his own holes in the analogy.
 ''Everyone says to me that you're building your team in your own image, but whoever says that never saw me play,'' Burke said. ''I was such a marginal pro at the American Hockey League level. That's why I went to law school.''
 Burke laughed as he sat back in his chair in his office at the Honda Center in Anaheim one afternoon before a Ducks preseason game. An untied necktie hung around his neck, having surrendered to the force of his personality.
 The 52-year-old Burke long ago built his reputation with that personality, having spent 19 seasons in the N.H.L. He is entering his 10th season as a general manager and previously spent five as the director of hockey operations for the league. 
 He airs his opinions without pause, dropping like a cannonball into the placid pool of the buttoned-down N.H.L. He is a vocal advocate of a belligerent brand of hockey, he argues for the value of fighting and he rails against rules that might soften it up.
 ''I think we got mesmerized by skill in the late '80s and got away from North American hockey,'' Burke said. ''What we're trying to say is, we want to keep the skill component but let's put the black and blue back in.''
 His current setting, though, seems a bit surreal: the black-and-blue hockey man amid the pastel hues of Southern California. It was a drastic change after his six seasons in Vancouver, where Burke became a lightning rod; he could hardly make his daily stop for coffee without fans arguing with him. Here, he said, he can go months without being recognized in public.
 But Burke's approach is clearly working. Hired in 2005 as the N.H.L. lockout was ending, Burke not only built a championship team in two seasons, he has led a hockey revival. Two seasons ago, the Ducks had roughly 7,500 season-ticket holders and struggled to fill the 17,135-seat Honda Center more than a few times a season. Now, the Ducks have capped their season-ticket sales at 15,000 and expect every game this season to sell out.
 ''I think I can put a team out there that can draw anywhere,'' Burke said. ''If you pay $100 for a ticket and you come to the building that night and we didn't win, I've got to give you something that's a reason to come back. That's why we play that way. We trade chances. We don't trap. We hit. We fight. We score a lot of goals. It's all designed to maximize the entertainment experience.'' 
 The Ducks are thoroughly Burke's team. They led the N.H.L. with 71 major penalties for fighting last season, well ahead of the second-place team, Phoenix, with a mere 47. But the Ducks were also tied for eighth in goals scored, and their star player was the smooth-skating Teemu Selanne, also known as one of the league's nicest guys.
 ''I still think what wins and sells hockey is skill,'' Burke said. ''No one ever bought a ticket to watch me play, but they buy tickets to watch Teemu.''
 Ducks fans have also grown to love players like George Parros, who led the league with 18 fights last season. The Ducks seemed to bully their way through the season, including the playoffs.
 ''That's his personality and the type of guy he is, and that's the way he likes to see the game played,'' Ducks defenseman Chris Pronger said of Burke. ''He sticks to his guns in that respect.''
 Burke spent the off-season figuring out how to replace Selanne, who along with the star defenseman Scott Niedermayer, is still deciding whether to retire. To fill Selanne's forward spot, Burke signed the notoriously combative Todd Bertuzzi as a free agent.
 He also jumped into a controversy in the off-season, when he harshly criticized a rival general manager for signing one of the Ducks' young players, forward Dustin Penner, to a five-year, $21.5 million offer sheet. Burke called the move by Edmonton General Manager Kevin Lowe unfair, inflationary and stupid. Penner, who just turned 25, has all of one full season of N.H.L. experience.
 Clearly, winning his first Stanley Cup had not mellowed Burke.
 At the same time, Burke did not turn the Cup run into a redemption story, which it could have been. The victory came only three years after Burke was unceremoniously fired by the Canucks. When he took over the Canucks, they were mired in on-ice and ticket-sales mediocrity, and he turned them into a perennial playoff contender. But he also had a combative relationship with the team's ownership, and Vancouver never made it past the second round of the playoffs.
 Added to that downward spiral was the infamous incident in 2004, when Bertuzzi was suspended for 17 months for his on-ice attack on Colorado forward Steve Moore. The incident also spawned a criminal case and lawsuit by Moore. 
 Burke never flinched in his support of Bertuzzi, who has not been as successful a player since. Bertuzzi missed most of last season with a back injury, but Burke signed him with little hesitation.
 ''It's awesome, being given the opportunity to come back and play for him,'' Bertuzzi said. ''Obviously we had success in Vancouver to a certain extent, had a lot of good years there. I know what he expects and the kinds of teams that he has built.''
 The signing of Bertuzzi was vintage Burke. It was widely unpopular, particularly in Canada where Bertuzzi's faults are cause for constant debate. But Burke is rarely jarred from his views, even if they are not being challenged every day while he waits in line to buy a cup of coffee.
 ''I'm not in this for self-esteem or awards,'' Burke said. ''My job is to win hockey games. I'm not running for office. If people don't like individual moves, too bad. Until I run for office, I'm not going to worry about people's opinions.''
 If the Ducks play with Burke's stubbornness in defense of their title, the cliche will only grow.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: General Manager Brian Burke was in the thick of the celebration in June, when the Ducks won their first Stanley Cup.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK RIGHTMIRE/ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: VANCOUVER CANUCKS (58%); AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



30 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE HARD PART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: In Newark, the Mayor's Crusade Gets Personal

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
The 17-year-old sat across the table from the mayor, text messaging friends and avoiding eye contact. The stir that Cory A. Booker's arrival at an Applebee's restaurant here had provoked -- diners posed with him for cellphone portraits, autographs were sought -- had calmed.
 Mr. Booker moved to get the teenager's attention. ''What's up with the bandana around your head?'' Mr. Booker playfully asked the young man, Sean Bennett Laboo. ''When am I going to see graduation pictures?'' 
 Sean barely mustered a shrug. But when he ignored more pointed questions about his plans, Mr. Booker leaned forward. ''Life is about focus,'' he said. ''What you focus on, you become. If you focus on nothing, you become nothing.'' 
 During his first 15 months as mayor of this beleaguered city, Mr. Booker has taken on a number of major issues: crime, unemployment, economic development. His relationship with Sean has been part of a more private agenda: the role of big brother to three young men from some of the toughest streets.
 All three have had brushes with the law. They come from dysfunctional families. They were -- and are still -- at risk of becoming part of a set of grim and familiar statistics.
 But for much of the last year, they have also had the company and support of this city's top elected official. At City Hall, the three -- Sean; Anthony Jackson, 15; and Duwon Diggs, 18 -- are collectively known as ''the boys.'' 
 They occasionally kill time waiting for weekly tutoring lessons by spinning around in Mr. Booker's desk chair. Sometimes they make prank calls from his phone.
 Unless his public schedule gets in the way, the mayor and the boys get together every weekend, usually on Friday nights, when they take in a movie and dinner. The mayor sometimes brings them to lectures or award dinners, and on many nights, they will end up back at City Hall playing the board game Risk until midnight. 
 On Sundays, after he drags them to morning church services, they loll around Mr. Booker's apartment watching sci-fi movies and playing video games. Members of the mayor's security team drive the boys to the outings and weekly tutoring sessions. Over time, they have become mentors as well. 
 When strangers at restaurants or street fairs mistake the adolescents for Mr. Booker's flesh and blood, the mayor rarely corrects the assumptions. ''They're my brothers from another mother who are like no others,'' he will say with a grin.
 The year together has been something of a mixed and quixotic one for the boys and for Mr. Booker. Duwon has dropped out of school and largely slipped from Mr. Booker's orbit. Anthony, a hyperkinetic youth who once had a penchant for shoplifting, has started earning better grades. Sean's progress has been unsteady, too. He has stayed out of trouble, but in many ways remains unmoored.
 Still, in a city where crime, drugs and violence have a way of ensnaring children, the fact that all three teenagers have stayed alive and out of jail is an achievement of some magnitude. 
 In some ways, then, the relationship between the mayor and the boys is a metaphor for Mr. Booker's inaugural year at the helm of a city he is struggling to transform. Despite small signs of progress, the mayor has discovered that undoing the damage from years of governmental neglect, at all levels, and familial dysfunction is not always possible. 
 While the Booker administration has presided over a 20 percent drop in crime, homicides -- 76 this year, compared with 79 for the same period in 2006 -- have been largely immune to aggressive police tactics. The mayor has streamlined the municipal bureaucracy to encourage economic development, but unemployment, at 8 percent, remains nearly double the state average.
 The city's stepped-up child immunization program has been cited as among the best in the nation, yet a third of all children still live in poverty. 
 In August, when three young friends were shot to death in a Newark schoolyard and six people, four of them teenagers, were charged with the crime, Mr. Booker made a plea for adults to get involved in the lives of children.
 ''There's no reason that programs like Big Brothers and Big Sisters should have over 100 kids waiting for mentors,'' he said after the funeral for one of the murdered youths. 
 The relationship that has grown up between Mr. Booker and Sean, Duwon and Anthony was not born of mutual affection. Shortly after Mr. Booker's inauguration in July 2006, the police arrested three people for spray-painting the words ''Kill Booker'' in the hallway of a school none of them attended. This occurred when Mr. Booker and his security detail were grappling with death threats from jailed gang members. 
 But when he learned that those arrested were under 18, Mr. Booker made prosecutors an unusual proposition. If they would drop the charges, Mr. Booker would become the teenagers' mentor. 
 In a city where 5,000 youths wind up in the overburdened criminal justice system each year, Andrea M. Johnson, the assistant prosecutor in Essex County in charge of juvenile cases, thought it was worth a try, at least for Duwon and Sean. (The third youth arrested in the vandalism, a 13-year-old with a record, was considered too far gone for such an intervention.)
 But another young man soon joined up. Anthony, a relative of Sean's, tagged along on one of the first outings with Mr. Booker and was promptly taken into the fold.
 ''Our only concern was that he might be doing it for publicity purposes,'' Ms. Johnson said in an interview last week, referring to Mr. Booker. ''That, it seems, hasn't been the case.''
 Mr. Booker said his involvement in the lives of Sean, Anthony and Duwon was prompted by what he described as a missed opportunity to influence the fate of Hassan Washington, a teenager who used to hang out in front of Mr. Booker's apartment building during his days as a city councilman.
 Although Mr. Booker invited Hassan out to dinner and to the movies several times, he said he wished his involvement had been more consistent. In August, the mayor opened the newspaper to read that Hassan, 18, had been gunned down a few blocks from Mr. Booker's home.
 ''It was the first time I wept as mayor,'' he said.
 After attending Hassan's funeral, he headed over to the prosecutor's office, where Mr. Booker confronted Sean and Duwon in a sterile conference room. ''The streets chew up black men like you,'' he said as they stared at the floor.
 Over the past year, Mr. Booker has been alternately encouraged and frustrated by the boys and their progress. Although he is disappointed that Duwon dropped out of school and stopped showing up at weekend gatherings, he expressed relief last week when Lee Brown, a member of his security team who has kept tabs on Duwon, reported that he was regularly going to church and actively looking for a job. 
 By contrast, Sean, who turned 17 last week, and Anthony seem to savor their time with the mayor, although Anthony, an avid cartoonist whose life has been marked by a series of unhappy foster homes, shows up more reliably. ''There are little signs of progress,'' Mr. Booker said last week.
 Once relentless in criticizing their tangled syntax and baggy trousers, Mr. Booker has come to realize that he cannot change the boys by hectoring them. ''I realized that I just have to be there for them, whether they are good or bad, and let them know they have unconditional love,'' he said. 
 At Applebee's two Sundays ago, Mr. Booker did not appear to be bothered as Anthony unleashed kung-fu moves on a mayoral bodyguard. He held his tongue when he noticed much of Sean's underwear glaringly visible above his drooping pants. But when Sean evaded questions about his plans and then proclaimed that he hoped to move out of his parents' apartment soon to live on his own, the mayor turned parental.
 He grabbed a napkin and proceeded to write down all the bare requirements of independent living -- rent, utilities, car insurance and food -- and came up with $24,000 in annual expenses. His question, ''How are you going to make money?'' was met with a shrug.
 Duwon, who used to brag about riding around in stolen cars, lives with an aunt who provides minimal supervision. Until August, Anthony was living with Sean's extended family in a crowded South Ward apartment. 
 Anthony was abandoned as a toddler by his mother and father, both of them lost to crack. Five years ago, Tawana Bennett Laboo, a distant relative of Sean's mother who works as a housekeeper at University Hospital here, took in Anthony and his older sister. 
 ''It has been rough at times,'' Ms. Laboo said after Anthony broke a new bed by jumping on it and then ran away from home to escape punishment. ''Still, we try to treat him like he's one of our own.''
 Anthony sees matters differently. After repeated disappearances, sometimes for days at a time, he packed his bags last month and moved in with an aunt, claiming that the Laboos were forcing too many chores on him. ''I don't mind doing work; it was just going overboard,'' he said. 
 Anthony recently pledged to study hard, stop running away and start making the mayor proud. Last year, he said, he endured the teasing of classmates who chided him for spending so much time with Mr. Booker. Sometimes their words would enrage him, and fists would fly.
 Not anymore, he insisted. ''One thing I've learned by hanging out with the mayor is it's not all about fighting,'' Anthony said. ''I mean, look at Cory. He got where he is not because he can fight, but because he gots an education.'' 
 Then, catching himself, he paused. ''I mean because he has an education.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sean Laboo, left, and Anthony Jackson take on Mayor Cory Booker of Newark in a game of Risk.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
During an evening out at an Applebee's last month, Mayor Cory A. Booker talked to Sean Laboo, left, about how much it would cost for the 17-year-old to live on his own. Sean is one of three Newark teenagers the mayor has been mentoring.
 Anthony Jackson, 15, one of the boys the mayor is mentoring, lying on a bed at his aunt's home, where he shares a room with a cousin, Michael Phelps, left. At right, Sean, left, and Anthony with Mr. Booker during a visit to a center for the elderly.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (75%); FAMILY (74%); BOARD GAMES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (61%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (62%); MICHAEL PHELPS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



31 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Unlike U.S., Japan Pushes Fiber Over Profit

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
The United States may be the world's largest economy, but when it comes to Internet connections at home, many Americans still live in the slow lane. By contrast, Japan is a broadband paradise with the fastest and cheapest Internet connections in the world. 
 Nearly eight million Japanese have a fiber optic line at home that is as much as 30 times speedier than a typical DSL line.
 But while that speed is a boon for Japanese users, industry analysts and some companies question whether the push to install fiber is worth the effort, given the high cost of installation, affordable alternatives and lack of services that take advantage of the fast connections. 
 Indeed, the stock price of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, which has two-thirds of the fiber-to-the-home market, has sunk because of concerns about heavy investments and the deep discounts it has showered on customers. Other carriers have gotten out of the business entirely, even though it is supported by government tax breaks and other incentives. 
 The heavy spending on fiber networks, analysts say, is typical in Japan, where big companies disregard short-term profit and plow billions into projects in the belief that something good will necessarily follow.
 Matteo Bortesi, a technology consultant at Accenture in Tokyo, compared the fiber efforts to the push for the Shinkansen bullet-train network in the 1960s, when profit was secondary to the need for faster travel. ''They want to be the first country to have a full national fiber network, not unlike the Shinkansen years ago, even though the return on investment is unclear.''
 ''The Japanese think long-term,'' Mr. Bortesi added. ''If they think they will benefit in 100 years, they will invest for their grandkids. There's a bit of national pride we don't see in the West.''
 Such a strategy may seem anathema in the United States, where companies like AT&T and Verizon Communications, the market leader with 1.1 million fiber subscribers, are under intense pressure from investors to justify their capital spending plans. And analysts note that the Bush administration has largely stood on the sidelines rather than provide financial incentives to promote fiber services.
 ''While you might not want to replicate the same pathway as other countries, we are falling seriously behind,'' said Charles H. Ferguson, author of ''The Broadband Problem.'' 
 Mr. Ferguson said the substandard American broadband infrastructure shaved as much as 1 percent off the nation's potential productivity growth. Faster broadband services would allow telecommuters to use better videoconferencing equipment and more easily share multimedia documents, he said.
 But even without Japan's tax incentives, N.T.T. and some other Japanese companies say that selling fiber lines makes sense because their older copper networks need to be replaced anyway, and because they have to develop services to offset the decline in revenue from traditional phone lines.
 And while acknowledging that initial investments are expensive, N.T.T. and KDDI, the second-largest phone company, expect to recoup some of their money by selling additional products, like Internet phone and television services, that are delivered over fiber lines. They also expect electronics companies to produce an array of products that rely on fiber networks, including high-definition videoconferencing equipment and medical devices that can instantly relay X-rays between hospitals.
 ''The cost of installing the service will continue to go down by leaps and bounds,'' said Kazuhiko Ogawa, general manager of the network strategy section at N.T.T. ''In the future, we will establish a lot of alliances and applications that will combine stability and reliability.''
 But while millions of users have signed up for fiber connections, far fewer have bought additional services. 
 For Yukari Haruzono, an online game enthusiast, a high-speed fiber line is the difference between surviving and thriving in the game EverQuest. 
 ''I play every night and on weekends, and it's much faster and more stable than other broadband,'' said Ms. Haruzono, who pays about $55 a month for service that lets her download data at speeds up to 100 megabits a second, roughly what Verizon offersin the United States. ''All my friends have fiber connections, too, because they are gamers.''
 But Ms. Haruzono, who has a fiber line from KDDI, buys her phone service from another company. She and other users were alarmed by technical glitches that shut down N.T.T.'s Internet phone service for several hours this year. She buys her television from the satellite provider SkyPerfect.
 Over all, only about half of N.T.T.'s fiber customers sign up for Internet phone service in addition to their broadband, and just over 43,000 also subscribe to a video plan. In the United States, nearly half of Verizon's fiber customers also get a television package, and nearly all of them use its phone service.
 Japanese carriers have been slow to sell bundles of services because they face some competition from cable providers, their natural rivals.
 Just 20 percent of Japanese households subscribe to a pay television service from a cable or satellite provider.
 By contrast, Cablevision, Comcast and other American cable providers have been selling phone services that have helped them take millions of customers from Verizon, AT&T and other phone companies. Verizon and AT&T have retaliated by selling their own television services.
 Japanese phone companies have been unable to follow suit because of a law that limits their role in the broadcasting business. As a result, N.T.T. resells programming from SkyPerfect. This gives N.T.T. less flexibility to create new services. Customers also receive no discount from N.T.T. and two different bills.
 Analysts question whether users are being sold broadband lines with more speed than they need, particularly people who just check e-mail and an occasional Web site.
 ''Consumers buy what they think is neat and cool,'' said Jim Weisser, a telecommunications consultant in Tokyo, ''and 100 megabits per second is a nice round number and sure sounds fast.'' But ''it's probably more speed that typical users will need for some time,'' he said.
 Some companies are betting that users are more interested in mobility than speed. EMobile, for instance, sells data cards for laptops and handsets that can send and receive data about as fast as a home DSL line. The unlimited data plan sells for about 5,000 yen ($43) a month, and an additional 1,500 yen buys a DSL line for a home computer.
 Eric Gan, the company's president, said this was a superior business model because the wireless network was cheaper to set up than fiber. ''We aren't losing money with fiber to the home,'' he said. ''We give you a big pipe for voice and everything else that is all-you-can-eat.'' 
 Still, N.T.T. and KDDI show no sign of backing away from their fiber plans. Their priority is seeking out the apartment buildings that fill Japan's crowded cities, offering many potential customers in one place.
 Like Verizon, they have had to sign right-of-way agreements with landlords, a time-consuming process. Then they face the task of persuading individual homeowners to sign up.
 ''In general, people are positive about the fiber service,'' said Osamu Kobayashi, a telecommunications analyst at Standard & Poor's. ''But the growth rate should slow because they've already gone after the condominiums and early adopters. Now, they have to go after the single homes.''
 N.T.T. is also developing a dedicated fiber optic network that will provide the backbone for an array of commercial services. At its showroom in central Tokyo, it has a system that helps small-town doctors by relaying images of cell slides, X-rays and other medical data to pathologists in well-staffed city hospitals. Doctors can control the lens on the microscope to focus, zoom in and so on.
 Nearby is a rubber mat developed by Hitachi that, when placed on a mattress, monitors a person's pulse, blood pressure and other data, then relays it to a nurse or family member. Panasonic has developed radio-frequency tags that schoolchildren can carry. As they pass antennas placed outside schools and other locations, signals are sent back to parents who can be assured of their children's safety.
 N.T.T. hopes that these services, which rely on fast, dependable connections, will attract customers to its network and help solve some of the country's larger social challenges, like the aging population, even if the payoff is not so soon in coming.
 ''It's a once-in-a-century transformation,'' Mr. Ogawa of N.T.T. said. ''There will be more people using services who weren't on the network before.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yukari Haruzono, a computer game enthusiast in Tokyo, waited Sunday for an upgrade while her daughter, Yuho, 6, played. She pays $55 a month to be able to download data at high speeds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AYUMI NAKANISHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C5) CHART: FASTER, AND CHEAPER, CONNECTIONS: Broadband service in South Korea and Japan is much faster and less expensive than it is in the United States and many other countries. (Source: The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation) (pg. C5) Chart showing the difference in broadband service in South Korea and Japan versus the United States and other countries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); BROADBAND (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TELECOMMUTING (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (72%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (70%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (67%); TAX LAW (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (56%); ACCENTURE PLC (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); NTT (NYSE) (56%); NPN (LSE) (56%); 9432 (TSE) (56%); ACN (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



32 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: In Bucharest, a Flourishing Housing Market

BYLINE: By JON GORVETT

 BODY:
BUCHAREST
 The streets may sometimes be chaotic and the sidewalks crowded, but to some of the New Yorkers who live in Romania's capital, it can also be one of the most rewarding cities in Europe.
 Leslie Hawke, mother of Ethan Hawke, the actor, is one such resident. She moved here seven years ago and now lives in a rooftop apartment on the city's main street, Calea Victoria. 
 ''It's Bucharest's Fifth Avenue,'' she said, looking down from her 45-square-meter (485-square-foot) terrace, which curves around her apartment. ''It has all the major department stores and museums, palaces and squares.''
 Spreading out below her apartment is the eclectic jumble of downtown. And across the rooftops are the onion domes of a Russian church rising above 19th-century French-style apartment buildings. This is Europe's sixth-largest city, with a population of 1.9 million. 
 Ms. Hawke's 1930s-era apartment has 95 square meters (over 1,000 square feet) of living space, with a large living room, kitchen, two bedrooms and a bathroom, and is just a few minutes' walk from her office. She works for Ovidiu Rom, a nongovernmental organization that uses education programs to support families and children, a job that spun out of the Peace Corps volunteer work she did when she first arrived in the country. 
 ''One of the really great things about Bucharest is the sense of proximity,'' she said. ''Here, everything is still going on in the city center. I almost never have to go to a social or work event by car.''
 That suits Anthony Raftopol, too. ''As someone who grew up in the Big Apple,'' he said, ''I am absolutely fine with the metro and the buses.'' 
 Mr. Raftopol works for Salans, a law firm. He moved here when it opened a local office in the 1990s. He bought a two-bedroom, one-bath apartment in the city center near Cismigiu Park, where he and his partner, Shawn Hargon, now take their 13-month-old daughter, Zoe. 
 Mr. Raftopol's parents were Romanians who fled the Communist regime in 1968. Although the family ended up in New York, he was born in a refugee camp in Austria -- where, he said, an exiled Hungarian countess used to help take care of him.
 As both a buyer and a real estate lawyer, he has seen the market evolve. ''Prices have exploded here,'' he said. ''The economy has been growing fast, yet the supply of apartments just hasn't kept up with demand. We estimate they need about 300,000 new units at the moment, and so far this year there are plans to build just 30,000. At that rate, the boom in prices should continue for a decade.''
 Because of the shortage, prices are comparable with those in Vienna and Berlin.
 ''Residential property in new developments in the suburbs goes for around 1,500 euros a square meter these days,'' or $198 a square foot, said another real estate specialist, Brian Jardine, an American who works here for Wolf Theiss, an Austrian law firm. He said that 100- to 150-square-meter (1,100- to 1,500-square-foot) apartments downtown sell for around 300,000 euros ($426,000). ''That's five or six times what it was five years ago,'' he said.
 With high potential yields, Bucharest has become an increasingly popular place for foreigners to invest, and now that Romania is a member of the European Union, the number of those investments is likely to grow.
 ''Many individuals from places such as Germany, the U.K. and Austria are already here,'' Mr. Raftopol said. ''The U.S. resident community is pretty small but tends to be made up of people who have quite a commitment to the place.''
 Ms. Hawke added: ''Buying here is quite different from back home too. One great thing is, you can do it all via a notary, without all the lawyers you need back in the States.''
 There are no restrictions on Americans' buying houses or apartments. Land purchases, however, must be done through a company registered in Romania, although foreigners are allowed to own such companies. ''Setting one up is a no-brainer,'' Mr. Raftopol said. ''It's very quick and at about 300 euros ($426), pretty cheap.''
 Transactions can be complex. When Ms. Hawke bought her apartment, she explained, she was asked for 113,000 euros ($160,460) in cash. ''I didn't feel so great carrying that around town in a bag, though,'' she said, ''so eventually I persuaded them that we could all just go to the bank and watch the wire transfer go through.''
 Finding a place also can require unconventional methods. 
 ''Word of mouth is the best way,'' Ms. Hawke said. ''I bought a little place out in the countryside recently and, to get that, I first asked a guy in a local shop, who took me to the local priest, who took me to the mayor, and while I was there a guy came by wanting to buy some wine off the mayor and said he had a place for sale. It's not quite that extreme in Bucharest, but it always helps to network.''
 Another issue to be aware of is restitution, Mr. Raftopol said. He explained that in 1946, private owners were stripped of their property by the Communists' nationalization process, and that after 1989, those owners were shut out when current residents were allowed to buy their homes. Problems sometimes cropped up later, when the original owners were allowed to claim restitution. 
 ''It's a good idea to hire a local lawyer to do a full title search to find out if there are any restitution issues on the place you want to buy,'' Mr. Raftopol said. ''They should also look to see if the property is earthquake proof.'' Bucharest is in an earthquake zone, and buildings are graded according to their ability to withstand tremors.
 Restoring a property also can be a challenge, as Romanian workers have been heading to other European Union countries in search of higher wages, creating a shortage of skilled workers. Yet ''all the big home-improvement stores are here,'' Mr. Raftopol said. ''The materials cost what they would in the U.S., but the labor is much less.'' The restoration of his apartment cost 20 to 25 percent less than what it would have in America, he said. 
 Bucharest has appeal but it is definitely for someone who likes a challenge. ''It is a city still figuring out what it wants to be,'' Mr. Raftopol said. ''It's not the sort of place you come because everything is already fixed up and done; you come here because it's not like that. Instead, the potential is still there for it to become something else -- something really different.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); FAMILY (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); CHILDREN (70%); LAWYERS (68%); LEGAL SERVICES (66%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); VOLUNTEERS (64%); REFUGEES (61%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (54%); RETAILERS (54%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) ROMANIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); HUNGARY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



33 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Flipping Slows, but Landlords Continue to Raise Rents

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
For more than two years, until this summer's credit squeeze, office buildings around the country were bought and sold at a dizzying pace. All that flipping -- culminating in the Blackstone Group's purchase of more than 500 buildings owned by Equity Office Properties and the subsequent resale of about half of that portfolio -- has pushed up office rents.
 In Chicago, for example, rents usually do not budge much. Since February, however, when Blackstone bought Equity Office for $39 billion, asking rents for prime office buildings downtown have spiked, causing sticker shock for tenants whose leases are expiring in the next year or two. In August, Blackstone sold six downtown Chicago buildings from the Equity Office portfolio to Tishman Speyer, the New York real estate company, for about $1.72 billion. 
 When Equity Office owned the 40-story tower at 30 South Wacker Drive, the asking annual net rent (without electricity and other operating costs) was $17 a square foot, said Joseph Learner, an executive vice president at Studley, a brokerage that represents tenants. ''When Blackstone came in, they jumped the price to $25 net,'' he said. ''Now, Tishman Speyer wants $28.'' (Tishman Speyer executives declined to comment.) 
 The recent rent increases -- a phenomenon that some real estate specialists have labeled the Blackstone effect -- are not limited to Chicago. Nor was the trend limited to the Blackstone-Equity Office merger and its aftermath, in which Blackstone sold 253 buildings in the Equity Office portfolio for a total of $27 billion, according to CoStar Group, a research company in Bethesda, Md. Some of these buildings were flipped again by the new buyers.
 In the first six months of this year, more than half the office buildings that sold for $5 million or more nationwide had been held for less than two years, according to Real Capital Analytics, a New York research company. 
 As prices escalated, the capitalization rate -- the initial rate of return on the buildings -- declined, sometimes to levels of only 5 percent or less.
 Lenders were often willing to finance 95 percent or more of the purchase in the expectation that far more rent could be wrung out of the space, once existing leases expired. Commercial loans are pooled and sliced into bonds carrying different levels of risk. But these bonds have recently become a tougher sell.
 Since most deals were heavily leveraged, many owners are now left with debt service that is not covered by the building's cash flow. And owners who counted on being able to flip their buildings for a higher price can no longer do so. In recent weeks, building values nationwide have dropped 5 to 10 percent, according to Green Street Advisors, a research firm in Newport Beach, Calif.
 Therefore, landlords ''have to increase their net operating income -- but pretty quickly,'' said Kevin Brennan, an executive vice president for Studley in San Francisco.
 In a recent survey of Manhattan and seven metropolitan areas around the country, Studley found that in all but one, increases in asking rents in buildings that have been sold in the last two years have significantly outpaced the market as a whole.
 Even in Orange County, Calif., where a shrinking mortgage industry has emptied hundreds of thousands of square feet of office space, asking rents in newly sold buildings have risen disproportionately. In April, Blackstone flipped its newly acquired Orange County portfolio to Maguire Properties, a Los Angeles company. Maguire has since sold some of those buildings, including Tower 17 in Irvine, in order to pay down its debt. But this week Banc of America Securities downgraded Maguire's stock, saying that ''Orange County is in the midst of a real estate recession.''
 Landlords are raising rents just as building values appear to be dropping slightly in many cities as a result of the credit squeeze; in addition, the leasing market is slowing. Even in Midtown Manhattan, the amount of space leased in the third quarter declined 23.4 percent from the same period last year, in part because few large blocks of space are available, according to Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage company. 
 In areas covered by the Studley survey, the average asking rent increase for the newly sold buildings was 21.2 percent, compared with an average market increase of 12.6 percent. The only market in which new owners were not seeking much of a premium was Atlanta, where the large volume of vacant space keeps rents in check, said Steven E. Coutts, who directs national research at Studley.
 The robust rent projections in loan documents are fueling the rise in asking rents, but it is far from certain that tenants will go along, Mr. Coutts said. The projections ''say they need to achieve certain numbers,'' he said, ''but only time will tell if the market is willing to pay those rents.''
 In Manhattan, where many people are nervous about the prospect of layoffs in the financial services industry, asking rents continue to rise. But most of the recent leasing has involved relatively small blocks of space. During the last quarter, which ended on Sunday, nine leases were signed in Manhattan with annual rents of more than $150 a square foot, Cushman & Wakefield said in a market report.
 But rents are often not as high as they appear to be. In a new 20,000-square-foot lease at 712 Fifth Avenue, for example, the nominal annual rent is $170 a square foot, but the tenant is getting six months' free rent and $40 a square foot for refurbishing the office, brokers said.
 In Orange County, landlords are offering signing bonuses, said Jeff Osborn, the managing director of CB Richard Ellis's Anaheim office.
 Landlords in Washington, where the pace of leasing this year is half of what it was last year, have also sweetened their concessions, said Phillip S. Thomas Jr., a managing director of Cassidy & Pinkard, a local brokerage.
 In Chicago, nearly all of the city's prime buildings have traded in recent years, sometimes more than once. Space is tight and will remain so until several new buildings are completed in 2009, so landlords may have the upper hand for now. ''For '07 and '08, the picture looks pretty good for us,'' said Stephen A. Smith, a managing director at Jones Lang LaSalle, which manages 25 million square feet of property in downtown Chicago.
 Other brokers were not so sure. ''Demand is out there, and it's pretty strong,'' said David J. Burden, a senior managing director at Cushman & Wakefield in Chicago. ''But it remains to be seen if the taking rates will be close to the asking rates.''
 And in Chicago, as elsewhere, the investment market has stalled. Tishman Speyer had intended to flip three buildings it bought from Blackstone, but was able to dispose of only one of them, 101 North Wacker Drive. 
 But asking rents are probably not going to reflect the lower values soon, said Charlie Malet, the national director of leasing for Shorenstein Properties, which bought 46 buildings in Portland, Ore., from Blackstone in March. 
 ''Most of the people who have bought properties in the last couple of years are well capitalized, and they aren't going to prove themselves wrong in the first six months of ownership,'' Mr. Malet said. ''Their attitude is, 'If I'm wrong, let the market tell me I'm wrong a couple of years from now.'''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Chicago, Tishman Speyer flipped 101 North Wacker Drive as part of its deal with the Blackstone Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: SOARING RENTS: Demonstrating what some professionals refer to as the Blackstone effect, office rents in several metropolitan areas have risen far faster in buildings that have been sold recently than in the market as a whole. (Source: Studley) (pg. C6) Chart showing the increase of office rents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); MERGERS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (65%)

COMPANY: EQUITY OFFICE MANAGEMENT LLC (92%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); GREEN STREET ADVISORS INC (50%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (92%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



34 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Life's Necessities Play Catch-Up With Development on the Queens Waterfront

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
The settlers of a neighborhood called Queens West do not exactly have to plow the earth for their sustenance, but they do have to lug their groceries in from Manhattan or Brooklyn, often on crowded subway cars. Many just buy their groceries online.
 There is no supermarket in Queens West, the name used by real estate agents and residents of this luxury community rising in the borough's Hunters Point section, and the selection at nearby convenience stores is limited and pricey. 
 So in an oft-repeated daily ritual, a white truck stamped with a FreshDirect logo arrives at the doorstep of a high-rise building. A deliveryman hops out to unload box upon box of veggies, cold cuts, cereal and more. The truck is then off to the next multimillion-dollar high-rise. 
 This fading industrial sector may be experiencing a renewed vitality because of its perch across the East River from Midtown, but its renaissance is at a quirky phase: The influx of residents is outpacing the goods and services that make a neighborhood. It is a car without an engine, a cup of ramen noodles awaiting a splash of hot water.
 FreshDirect, the online grocery delivery company whose headquarters are near Queens West, has therefore become essential since it began service to the community in August 2005. But the community's point-and-click culture faces a drastic -- and for some, welcome -- change early next year.
 Rockrose Development Corporation, one of the major developers in the area, recently signed an agreement with the Amish Market to open a 21,000-square-foot store on the ground floor of one of its buildings. The supermarket, along with a Duane Reade drugstore, is expected to open early next year, signs that Queens West could be maturing from a settlement to a community.
 Reactions among the 3,500 residents to their neighborhood's first supermarket have varied. ''That's awesome,'' said one woman. One man was leery. ''People will go and see what they have,'' he said. ''They got a tough row to hoe.'' Another man said he would continue driving to get groceries.
 Yet the convenience of a large supermarket within walking distance is undeniable.
 ''The biggest thing I've ever heard anyone wish for is a grocery store,'' said Baron Hazen, the general manager of two buildings owned by Avalon Communities, one of which he has lived in for the past 13 months. 
 Patricia Dunphy, the vice president of Rockrose, said the company's research indicated that the Amish Market would provide what Queens West residents desire. ''Busy working people, they want to be able to buy gourmet foods and prepared foods,'' she said.
 The neighborhood being promoted as Queens West is bounded by Newtown Creek to the south, the Anable Basin (at 45th Road) to the north, the East River to the west and Fifth Street to the east.
 The community's revival got off to a slow start. In 1997, the first luxury high-rise building, the Citylights, was built amid smokestacks and brush. It was the only building of its kind in the area until 2002, when Avalon built the first of its two buildings. Rockrose has two residential high-rises in the area and plans on erecting five more.
 In all, 74 acres have been set aside for development, with construction scheduled for completion in 2012. Developers hope the area can become what is essentially an extension of Manhattan -- it is just one stop and about a five-minute ride to Grand Central Station on the No. 7 train. The waterfront, which includes a man-made beach, is another amenity.
 For now, some Queens West residents find charm in being part of a quiet community starting almost from scratch.
 Sofia Estevez, the senior vice president at Rockrose, said that some people took pride in ''not just being a follower and going to all the same neighborhoods. It makes you unique.''
 Other developers are also attracting a curious crowd.
 ''Me and my roommate are really excited about the whole thing,'' said Jessica Higgs, a 22-year-old financial analyst who was the first person to move into Avalon's second building, Riverview North, in July. ''It's going to be cool to see what happens.''
 There is already one public elementary school in the neighborhood with plans to build a second. There are also plans for a library. Some say the area still needs community centers, medical facilities, entertainment options and a wider variety of restaurants.
 Ms. Higgs said she knew there were no supermarkets when she moved in, but added, ''Why turn down a nice place because of a grocery store?''
 She is not a FreshDirect fan, so she, like other residents, sometimes buys groceries in Manhattan after work. The evening rush in Queens West consists of crowds of people dressed in business attire, many of them coming home with plastic grocery bags in hand.
 Ms. Higgs said she also occasionally visits one of the many convenience stores on Vernon Boulevard, which is also home to several restaurants.
 Marlene Dodes-Callahan and her husband, Matthew Callahan, drive to Brooklyn for their groceries.
 They are about as close as one can get to being charter residents of Queens West, having bought a 39th-floor condominium in the Citylights building less than a year after it opened. They make weekly trips across the Pulaski Bridge to shop at a Key Food in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
 Although the Callahans are eager to have a supermarket within walking distance and welcome the evolving neighborhood it represents, they see the changes as bittersweet.
 ''Before, everybody was on an island in the middle of nothing,'' Mr. Callahan said. ''Everybody said, 'Hello,' because we were part of the same experience.''
 Ms. Dodes-Callahan added, ''People are less friendly now.''
 Joseph Conley, the chairman of Community Board 2, whose district includes Queens West, said he was concerned what the burgeoning neighborhood might do to the true pioneers of the area -- the third-generation residents who grew up in a neighborhood of single-family homes that stood alongside factories. Many of those people are not in the same economic bracket as the transplants settling in the luxury residences along the river.
 Mr. Conley said that while a supermarket was ''sorely needed'' in Queens West, an upscale market might not serve the community as a whole.
 ''It's great to see the vibrant community it's developing into,'' he said. 
 ''We don't want it to be a playground for the rich.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Queens West area of Hunters Point has been transformed from a neighborhood of factories and single-family homes to a skyline of luxury high-rises along the waterfront. For longtime residents like Marlene Dodes-Callahan and Matthew Callahan, the growing development of the area comes with positives and negatives. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); PREPARED FOODS (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RETAILERS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (57%)

COMPANY: ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP (66%); FRESHDIRECT LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (66%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (66%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



35 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: A September Sales Drop of 18.2% Ends Dismal 2007 Model Year for Ford

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Its biggest rival, General Motors, has a tentative contract deal with the United Automobile Workers union and relatively stable sales. The Ford Motor Company has neither.
 Sales at Ford fell 18.2 percent in September, closing out its 2007 model year on a disappointing note, and analysts say the carmaker's immediate future does not look much brighter. Its biggest new product, the Edge, is already on sale, and its most critical redesign, the F-series pickup, is still a year away from arriving at dealerships.
 The Edge, a crossover vehicle that executives said would lead Ford through its turnaround, has surpassed expectations, but almost everything else seems to be coming up short. The chief sales analyst at Ford, George Pipas, said September sales fell short of targets in the company's overhaul plan, known as ''the way forward.'' 
 ''We're not where we want to be,'' Mr. Pipas said Tuesday. But he insisted that the shortfall ''doesn't throw us off track for the full year.''
 Ford's sales have been down every month this year, largely because of planned cutbacks in deliveries to rental car companies. But sales at dealerships have fallen off, too, raising questions about whether the carmaker needs to speed its turnaround.
 ''Their market share levels are disappointing,'' said Bruce Clark, an analyst with Moody's Investors Service in New York. 
 Next year, he added, ''is going to be challenging from an operating standpoint, and their cash burn will not be inconsequential.''
 September sales of the Taurus sedan, which Ford introduced this summer with high expectations, were 30 percent lower than those of its predecessor, the Five Hundred. And sales of Ford's sport utility vehicles have fallen so sharply that the Edge outsold them all last month.
 Yet the Edge is not winning many new customers for Ford, because 9 out of 10 vehicles most commonly traded in for it are other Ford models, said Tom Libby, senior director of industry analysis at the Power Information Network of J. D. Power & Associates.
 Ford is preparing to resume contract talks this week with the U.A.W., which reached a tentative deal with G.M. last week after a two-day nationwide strike. The deal, which workers are voting on through Oct. 10, is expected to make G.M. significantly more competitive with foreign manufacturers like Toyota and Honda.
 But as details of the G.M. deal continue to emerge, analysts are increasingly concerned that a similar deal may not go far enough to help Ford and, to a lesser extent, Chrysler.
 G.M. is in a much healthier position than Ford, Mr. Libby said, as their September sales illustrated. G.M.'s sales rose 4.5 percent, and its market share jumped to 25.3 percent, from 24.4 percent a year ago, according to the Autodata Corporation, an industry statistics firm. Ford's market share fell to 13.3 percent, from 16.5 percent.
 Sales at Honda also increased, by 13.8 percent, as did Nissan's, by 11 percent.
 Toyota's sales slipped 0.6 percent, although it outsold Ford by more than 35,000 vehicles to comfortably rank as the second-largest seller of vehicles in the American market. Chrysler's sales declined 1.6 percent.
 Over all, industry sales were up 1 percent, adjusted for one fewer selling day this September than a year ago. Troubles in the housing and credit markets continued to reduce demand for vehicles. Automakers said that they did not notice an increase in sales after the Federal Reserve reduced a benchmark interest rate by half a point on Sept. 18. Still, they said the rate cut gave them more optimism for the months ahead.
 ''We're dealing with housing; we're dealing with energy prices; we're dealing with consumers that are a bit shaky right now, and we may be dealing with some slowdowns in labor markets,'' said G.M.'s chief sales analyst, Paul Ballew. ''Households are feeling a pinch right now, and it's showing up in their big-ticket sales. Vehicles are a deferrable purchase.''
 September was the second consecutive month of declining sales for Toyota, which posted record sales a year ago.
 ''Frankly, last September was really a tough act to follow for us,'' said a Toyota spokesman, Irv Miller.
 Ford and Chrysler both said they cut back considerably on sales to rental car companies in September. 
 Through the first nine months of 2007, Ford said, it delivered 130,000 fewer cars to rental lots than in 2006 and it now expects to reduce such deliveries by more than 135,000 for the full calendar year.
 Chrysler also expects to restart contract talks with the U.A.W. this week. The union's contract with all three Detroit automakers expired Sept. 14.

GRAPHIC: CHART: HOW THE INDUSTRY FARED
 HOW AUTOMAKERS FARED (Source: Autodata) Chart showing the biggest gainers and losers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); STRIKES (78%); SEDANS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); PICKUP TRUCKS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (51%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



36 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Et Tu, Toyota?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
What is it about Michigan that seems to encourage assisted suicide?
 That is all I can think watching Michigan congressmen and senators, led by Representative John Dingell, doing their best imitations of Jack Kevorkian and once again trying to water down efforts by Congress to legislate improved mileage standards for Detroit in the latest draft energy bill.
 Look, I get pork-barrel politics. I understand senators from oil states protecting the windfall profits of oil companies. Ditto for farm subsidies. It's an old story: Protect my winnings, and I'll reward you with campaign contributions. I get it. I get it. 
 What I don't get is empty-barrel politics -- Michigan lawmakers year after year shielding Detroit from pressure to innovate on higher mileage standards, even though Detroit's failure to sell more energy-efficient vehicles has clearly contributed to its brush with bankruptcy, its loss of market share to Toyota and Honda -- whose fleets beat all U.S. automakers in fuel economy in 2007 -- and its loss of jobs. G.M. today has 73,000 working U.A.W. members, compared with 225,000 a decade ago. Last year, Toyota overtook G.M. as the world's biggest automaker.
 Thank you, Michigan delegation! The people of Japan thank you as well.
 But assisting Detroit's suicide seems to be contagious. Everyone wants to get in on it, including Toyota. Toyota, which pioneered the industry-leading, 50-miles-per-gallon Prius hybrid, has joined with the Big Three U.S. automakers in lobbying against the tougher mileage standards in the Senate version of the draft energy bill.
 Now why would Toyota, which has used the Prius to brand itself as the greenest car company, pull such a stunt? Is it because Toyota wants to slow down innovation in Detroit on more energy efficient vehicles, which Toyota already dominates, while also keeping mileage room to build giant pickup trucks, like the Toyota Tundra, at the gas-guzzler end of the U.S. market? 
 ''Toyota wants to keep its green halo and beat G.M. in the big trucks, too,'' said Deron Lovaas, vehicles expert at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''As the world's largest automaker and inventor of the best-selling hybrid car, Toyota has a responsibility to lead, follow or get out of the way as Congress debates the first substantial fuel-economy boost in decades. Shamefully, Toyota has joined forces with older automakers that are getting their lunch handed to them in the marketplace, in part because they've consistently shunned fuel efficiency.''
 Irv Miller, a Toyota vice president, used the company's corporate blog to refute charges that it is ''trying to move America backward on gas mileage.'' ''Nothing could be further from the truth,'' he said, because Toyota also favors improved mileage standards.
 Not so fast. Here are the facts: Thanks to the Michigan delegation, U.S. mileage standards for passenger car fleets have been frozen at 27.5 miles per gallon since 1985. Light trucks are even worse. The Senate energy bill calls for U.S. automakers to achieve a corporate average fuel economy of 35 m.p.g. by 2020. The Big Three and Toyota are lobbying to kill the Senate version and replace it with a loophole-laden increase to 32 to 35 m.p.g. by 2022. (Only the U.S. auto industry would try to postpone innovation.) The difference between the two is millions of gallons of gas. 
 Don't be fooled. Japan and Europe already have much better mileage standards for their auto fleets than the U.S. They both have many vehicles that could meet the U.S. goal for 2020 today, and they are committed to increasing their fleet standards toward 40 m.p.g. and above in the coming decade. So Toyota, in effect, is lobbying to keep U.S. standards -- in 2022 -- well behind what Japan's will be. 
 Representative Edward Markey, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, said to me that Toyota could meet a 35 m.p.g. standard in Japan and Europe today, ''but here -- even though they bombard Americans with ads about how energy efficient Toyota is -- they are fighting the 35 m.p.g. standard for 2020.'' 
 Mr. Markey said he has tried to persuade Toyota that ''a lot of people have bought Priuses or Camry hybrids to fight global warming and reduce our dependence on foreign oil'' and ''they would be shocked to find out'' that Toyota is lobbying against the highest m.p.g. standards for America.
 Sad. If Toyota were to take the lead on this front, it could enhance its own reputation and spur the whole U.S. auto industry to become more globally competitive. Hey, Toyota, if you are going to become the biggest U.S. automaker, could you at least bring to America your best practices -- the ones that made you the world leader -- instead of prolonging our worst practices? We have enough people helping us commit suicide. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); DEATH & DYING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SUICIDE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); PICKUP TRUCKS (66%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (56%); MARKET SHARE (53%)

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



37 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: When 2 Is Bigger Than 48

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BERLIN, N.H.
 The warm-up act for John Edwards in the cafeteria of New Hampshire Community Technical College last Thursday night was the Bluegrass Brothers, a string band from Virginia spending the day with his campaign. Mr. Edwards then walked into the cafeteria wearing blue jeans and a big smile, and the crowd rose to its feet.
 He may be well behind Hillary Rodham Clinton in the early polls, but this was his kind of audience. A couple of hours' drive from the Canadian border, Berlin is an old mill town where the middle class is struggling to stay afloat. When the applause for Mr. Edwards died down, he started into a casual version of his stump speech about making the American economy work for everyone. He began with health care.
 After he finished, a man in the crowd stood up and asked a question about globalization and labor unions. A woman asked Mr. Edwards about global warming. As he answered them, he frequently came back to health care and all the ways that it is connected to other problems. The audience, though, seemed a little less interested in the subject than he did. 
 Maybe that was nothing more than a reflection of the people he happened to call on. But maybe it wasn't a complete coincidence.
 Whatever New Hampshire's economic struggles are, it doesn't have nearly as big a problem with health insurance as the rest of the country does. Just 11.5 percent of the state's residents lack health insurance, compared with 16 percent elsewhere. New Hampshire happens to be a relatively old state, and, thanks to Medicare, the elderly are guaranteed coverage. Iowa -- the other state at the front of the presidential primary calendar -- is even older, and it has an even smaller share of uninsured. 
 It's not just age and health insurance that make the economies of New Hampshire and Iowa unusual, either. When you take a few minutes to look at the two states, economically and demographically, you end up taken aback by all the ways they don't look like the rest of America. 
 They are home to relatively few immigrants, and they are less crowded than much of the country. Traffic jams and sprawl, the bane of many other places, aren't such a big deal in the two states (especially Iowa). Houses are also far less expensive than elsewhere, with the typical one costing about $210,000 in New Hampshire and $120,000 in Iowa. So the mortgage insanity that afflicted the rest of the country over the last few years mostly stayed away from here. 
 Factory jobs, on the other hand, are a much bigger deal here than elsewhere. If manufacturing was as big a part of the economy in the whole United States as it is in Iowa and New Hampshire, there would be 19.5 million manufacturing jobs in this country, instead of 14 million. 
 All these differences can't help but skew the political debate. The upshot is that the major concerns in New Hampshire and Iowa -- legitimate as they are -- come to play an outsize role in the presidential campaign.
 Over the last couple of months, political functionaries from both parties have been fighting over how much influence New Hampshire and Iowa should retain in the future. There are proposals floating around that would rotate the first primaries and caucuses, starting in 2012, to dilute the influence of any one state. (One would keep small states at the front of the line, so the campaign could remain somewhat intimate.)
 The typical response coming from New Hampshire and Iowa has been to argue that no other state can hold elections quite as they can. ''We have this unique political culture, and you can't just tow it to another state,'' said William Gardner, who has been New Hampshire's secretary of state since 1976 and is responsible for choosing when the primary is held. 
 As Mr. Gardner explained to me during a charming tour through the state's political history, Josiah Bartlett, a New Hampshire delegate, was asked to sign the Declaration of Independence just after John Hancock because of the colony's crucial role in the break with Britain. (Yes, that would be the same Josiah Bartlett who was the namesake for Martin Sheen's character on ''The West Wing.'')
 In 1916, New Hampshire held the first true primary, and it has been the first in each campaign since 1920. The state helped make Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952 and bring down Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968. 
 Anyone who visits during campaign season is likely to come away agreeing that the level of political engagement is impressive. Up and down New Hampshire, I saw people greet Mr. Edwards with thoughtful and detailed questions about policy, including health care. 
 But there is, of course, a circular quality to the pro-New Hampshire argument. The legacy of Josiah Bartlett may be one reason that the state's residents are so politically involved. But the fact that their primary votes matter enormously -- unlike those in Idaho, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Ohio, Oregon, West Virginia and other later-voting states -- plays a bigger role. If Oregon had the nation's first primary, its citizens could probably rise to the occasion and ask some thoughtful questions. 
 Most important, a system of rotating early primaries would make the campaign less parochial. Everyone already knows about the ethanol obsession: To make nice to Iowa, candidates support subsidies for corn-based ethanol despite all of its shortcomings as an alternative energy source. Iowa's economic development ends up taking precedence over the nation's energy policy. 
 But there are other anomalies, too. The big manufacturing base in New Hampshire and Iowa nudges candidates toward a more protectionist trade policy, because the downsides of trade (lost jobs in older industries) feel so much larger than the upsides (export growth for newer industries, lower prices for consumers). Mr. Edwards talks the toughest about trade right now, and his poll numbers are stronger in the early states than elsewhere. 
 All the while, other thorny problems -- like immigration policy and failing inner-city schools -- get short shrift. Or consider Medicare and Social Security. Because the states are both relatively old, the debate here tends to focus on what will happen to the programs over the next couple of decades, come what may in 2040.
 The point is not that the big issues in New Hampshire and Iowa are somehow trivial. They aren't. But why do those issues deserve priority, forever and ever, over the big issues in the other 48 states?
 Last week's column on men, women and happiness generated almost 1,000 comments from readers. You can read an edited selection of them, along with some of my responses, at nytimes.com/leonhardt.

GRAPHIC: CHART: STATES THAT STAND APART: Iowa and New Hampshire are unlike the rest of the country in ways that can skew the presidential campaign. (Sources: Moody's Economy.com
Census Bureau
National Association of Realtors
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C9) Chart showing how Iowa and New Hampshire stand out in the presidential campaign. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); MEDICARE (55%); LABOR UNIONS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



38 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: South Korean Visits North, Offering Aid For Arms Cuts

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Stepping into the international spotlight at a delicate time for his isolated government, the reclusive North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, welcomed President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea to Pyongyang, the North's capital, on Tuesday for three days of talks. 
 It was only the second meeting between leaders of the two Koreas since they were divided 60 years ago, and Mr. Kim had mobilized a huge crowd to welcome Mr. Roh, who came with offers of peace and economic aid. 
 The North Korean leader himself was dour and reserved, a contrast to his effusive manner in 2000, during the first such meeting, when he hugged Kim Dae-jung, then the South Korean president, a scene that softened his image in South Korea and beyond. 
 On Tuesday morning, Pyongyang's usually drab sidewalks blossomed with color as North Koreans, dressed in their holiday best, waved pink and red paper flowers, according to South Korean television reports from Pyongyang.
 Hundreds of thousands of spectators erupted into well-choreographed chants of ''hurray'' and ''unify the fatherland'' as Mr. Roh rode through central Pyongyang in an open limousine with Kim Yong-nam, who is the North's nominal head of state but ranks second to Mr. Kim. 
 Mr. Roh travels with a bold initiative: if North Korea agrees to work toward reducing a half century of animosity with arms cuts, the South will help rebuild the North's moribund economy, creating a ''joint economic community'' as a prelude to eventual reunification. 
 Mr. Roh will also test Kim Jong-il's willingness to give up his nuclear arsenal in return for economic rewards and diplomatic relations with the United States and other countries. 
 Mr. Roh's aides say the summit meeting, together with recent progress in six-nation talks on North Korea's nuclear disarmament, is a sign that the North is cautiously embracing more cooperation and reform. But some analysts warn that the meeting may also be another tactical move by Mr. Kim to obtain more economic concessions without giving up his nuclear arsenal. 
 In his journey to Pyongyang by car early Tuesday, Mr. Roh traveled three and a half hours from Seoul, the South Korean capital. He was accompanied by industry leaders, politicians, cultural figures and scholars. 
 About 30 miles north of Seoul, Mr. Roh stepped out of his vehicle to make the symbolic gesture of walking across the border that divides the Koreas. He was the first South Korean leader to cross it on foot. In 2000, Kim Dae-jung flew to Pyongyang.
 ''This line is a wall that has divided the nation for a half-century,'' Mr. Roh said, as he stepped across a yellow strip with the words ''peace and prosperity'' written on it. ''Our people have suffered from too many hardships, and development has been held up due to this wall. This line will be gradually erased and the wall will fall.'' 
 Mr. Roh said that if they tried, the two Koreas ''can travel together on the road toward co-prosperity while coexisting in peace.'' 
 Formal talks with Kim Jong-il begin Wednesday. 
 The two Koreas remain technically at war since the Korean War ended in a cease-fire in 1953.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Wednesday with an article about a meeting between the leaders of North Korea and South Korea misspelled the name of the North Korean capital, where the meeting was held. It is Pyongyang, not Pongyang.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kim Jong-il, right, and his No.2, Kim Yong-nam, left, met with President Roh Moo-hyun, center, in Pongyang yesterday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



39 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: TD Bank To Acquire Commerce

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Commerce Bancorp agreed to accept a $8.5 billion offer from Toronto-Dominion Bank on Tuesday, three months after the removal of its maverick founder, Vernon W. Hill II, made the sale of the company inevitable.
 Mr. Hill, a real estate developer, had dominated the bank since its founding 34 years ago. But the mingling of bank business with his political interests and the businesses of its directors, officers and family led to his downfall. 
 While Mr. Hill no longer has an executive role at Commerce, he remains a major shareholder. When he was forced out in July, he was eligible for a $10 million severance. 
 With Tuesday's deal, he will hold $209.6 million in stock, according to a pay analysis by James F. Reda & Associates.
 For Toronto-Dominion, which is active in the Eastern United States through its TD Banknorth unit, the deal provides another way to overcome the limited growth opportunities at home. 
 ''With this deal TD has achieved critical mass in the United States,'' Edmund Clark, Toronto-Dominion's president and chief executive, said during a conference call with investors and analysts. 
 The acquisition will double Toronto-Dominion's business in the United States, adding almost 460 outlets and $48 billion in assets in nine states.
 As a bonus, the rise of the Canadian dollar to slightly greater than parity with the United States dollar will reduce the purchase price.
 But analysts said that Commerce's history might create greater-than-usual challenges when Toronto-Dominion begins to integrate its new holding.
 ''The question is: can they maintain the culture at Commerce, which is charismatic and growth-oriented, while improving earnings?'' said Gerard Cassidy, an analyst with RBC Capital markets which is owned by the Royal Bank of Canada, a rival of Toronto-Dominion.
 Bankers said that Commerce's operations made it difficult to find prospective buyers. Most big American banks that looked at the bank believed that it had too many overlapping branch locations and that its business model was too difficult to digest. Even Toronto-Dominion will have to overhaul its operations as well as the way it manages its balance sheet, people involved with the deal say.
 Commerce focused on retail banking, luring customers with good service and extended hours. That has also been the approach taken by Toronto-Dominion's retail unit, particularly since it acquired Canada Trust in 2000.
 To emphasize their customer-oriented approach, both Mr. Hill of Commerce and Mr. Clark of Toronto-Dominion, who previously ran Canada Trust, often referred to their branches as stores.
 The difference, Mr. Cassidy said, is that Toronto-Dominion, which operates in a much less competitive market, pampers its customers at a much lower cost. The Canadian bank, Mr. Cassidy calculates, spends about 50 cents for every dollar it generates. That amount is 74 cents at Commerce. 
 ''That's extremely high, it's unprofitably high,'' Mr. Cassidy said.
 Under Toronto-Dominion's offer, Commerce shareholders will get 0.4142 of share in the Canadian bank as well as $10.50 in cash.
 The two banks value the transaction at $42.37 a share, a small premium over Tuesday's closing price for Commerce of $39.47, including an adjustment for its 13 percent dividend payments.
 The relatively low premium reflects the gradual rise in shares that followed Mr. Hill's removal and the speculation that the company would be sold.
 Brad Smith, an analyst Blackmont Capital in Toronto, said it was difficult to assess the amount paid. Like Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Smith found the price-to-earnings ratio of 23-to-1 high.
 But the deal reflects only a 13.5 percent premium for the deposits held by Commerce compared with 23 percent to 40 percent for other recent bank transactions, according to the two companies.
 ''This is the prize that they are buying, that deposit base, so why is that so low?'' Mr. Smith asked. The bank has about 15,000 workers and 2.4 million customers.
 While the five Canadian banks that operate nationally and dominate financial services have posted record profits, partly because of Canada's oil and commodity-driven economic growth, they may have reached the limit of what they can do in their home market. The Canadian government has repeatedly thwarted attempts at domestic mergers.
 Also on Tuesday, Royal Bank of Canada announced that it would spend $2.2 billion to buy RBTT Financial Holdings, which is based in Port of Spain, Trinidad, and operates branches throughout the Caribbean.
 At Commerce, Mr. Hill hired people with connections in New Jersey state and municipal politics as well as their family members. By 2002 the bank was underwriting about half of the municipal bonds in New Jersey.
 The removal of Mr. Hill came after federal regulators threatened to block further branch openings by Commerce. The bank also agreed to stop intermingling personal interests with its operations.
 During the conference call, Mr. Clark said that the regulatory issues surrounding Commerce would have no affect on growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); US DOLLAR (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); HISTORY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); CURRENCIES (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: TD BANK NA (95%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (82%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%)

TICKER: TD (TSX) (93%); TD (NYSE) (93%); BK (NYSE) (92%); RY (TSX) (82%); RY (SWX) (82%); RY (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (82%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (82%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ED CLARK (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007



40 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: A Hedge Fund That Saw What Was Coming

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
MINNEAPOLIS
 SOMETIME in the next 12 to 18 months, there is going to be a panic in credit markets,'' Andy Redleaf, a 50-year-old hedge fund manager, wrote to investors in December. ''The driver in the credit market panic of 2007 or 2008 will be a sudden, profound and pervasive loss of faith in the alchemy of structured finance as currently practiced.''
That prediction came true, and earlier than Mr. Redleaf anticipated. The structured finance market collapsed in August, as investors fled complex financial instruments, many derived from subprime mortgages, which were defaulting at alarming rates -- or alarming to some.
 Whitebox Advisors, Mr. Redleaf's family of hedge funds, was not the only one to bet against subprime. But it did so with searing and amusing insight, a trademark of the founder and the firm. 
 The hedge fund industry is filled with money managers who claim to think differently. Yet most new money has flocked to a small number of experienced, large and seemingly safe fund managers, suggesting there is an investor consensus about which against-the-grain thinking is right. 
 Then there is Whitebox.
 ''I think the number of true contrarians is very small, and Andy is absolutely one of them,'' says Michael Harron, managing partner for TMF Capital Management, which has invested in Whitebox funds since 2003. ''Andy and his team want to be on the other side of consensus -- not for the sake of it, but because it allows them to stay in front of where things are going.''
 In August, when many fund managers watched the bottom fall out of their portfolios, Mr. Redleaf urged traders to think aggressively (buy the stocks of buyout targets that others were selling) and think creatively (who could be forced into a fire sale and what opportunities would that create?). It was a strategy that many funds would have taken, had they not been busy reducing leverage by as much as 30 to 50 percent. Whitebox, a $3.1 billion family of funds, increased its leverage.
 Early in his career, Mr. Redleaf sat next to Steven A. Cohen, who went on to start SAC Capital and become the archetypal hedge fund boss, secretive and rich, with an art collection that includes a tiger shark in formaldehyde and a 30-room mansion in Greenwich, Conn., with a skating rink in the backyard. 
 But Mr. Redleaf is not the Ferrari-driving, khaki-wearing hedge fund wunderkind from central casting. He is short, with a belly big enough to balance a pen, which he does sometimes. He has a long salt-and-pepper beard, which he tugs, and extremely poor eyesight, which requires him to use a magnifying glass to read the numbers on a cellphone. He speaks slowly, with a slight stutter that does not mask either his self-deprecating humor or his disarming memory. (He's happy to talk about the structure of a two-tier convertible bond that caused him grief in 1984.) 
 Whitebox is not standard issue either. It is based in Minneapolis, where Mr. Redleaf grew up -- not exactly a hotbed of hedge funds. Its funds tend to avoid the standard categories and risk metrics, which can be both an advantage and a challenge in seeking investors.
 ''We reject the notion that increasing risk is the way to raise returns,'' say confidential marketing materials provided by an investor. ''Every economic innovation known to man from the discovery of fire to better clean rooms for higher density microchips enriched man by the very act of reducing risk.'' 
 Whitebox emerged from August's maelstrom well, according to investors who provided the firm's letters and returns. The firm's combined fund, which includes four funds, was up about 15.4 percent for the year through August, compared with 6.55 percent for the Credit Suisse/Tremont multistrategy index and 5.20 percent for the S.&P. 500 index.
 But being original can sometimes be fatal in the world of finance. Julian H. Robertson Jr., a hot fund manager in a previous boom, believed that the market lost its senses in 1999 with its meteoric valuations for technology stocks, and his firm, Tiger Management, bet against them. He was right, but his funds went out of business first.
 The holy grail, of course, is running against the grain while making money.
 Whitebox's offices feel like a high-tech dorm room, albeit one with notably more sophisticated conversations. A portfolio manager wears shorts, while a few junior traders plod around barefoot. Conversations weave from oxtail jerky -- better than beef jerky? -- to dissections of portfolio positions. 
 After the market closes and with a flash flood paralyzing the city, Mr. Redleaf and a small group of employees contemplate everything from airlines (they own half of one) to the dollar (it is doomed) and the credit crunch (it's mostly over). There are millionaires in the room, but one would be hard pressed to identify them. ''Andy sets the tone, and Andy's pretty mellow,'' a credit analyst, Pete Wiley II, said.
 In 2005, when convertible arbitrage was losing money, Robert Vogel, who manages the group's concentrated convertible fund, was depressed about the market. Mr. Redleaf was not. 
 ''Andy was cheering me up and telling me to be aggressive and buy things that were cheap,'' Mr. Vogel said. 
 That contrarian approach also manifests itself in efforts to let employees have a life outside the office. Mr. Redleaf is determined to create a nice place to work. 
 ''People are better at doing things they like,'' he says matter-of-factly. ''Don't give them stuff they don't want to do. I learned that from years of personal negative experience.''
 Wall Street itself was never particularly welcoming to Mr. Redleaf. In 1978, he graduated from Yale with two degrees in mathematics (it took him three years) and a share of the university's highest math award. 
 The summer before, he sent applications to 100 investment firms and had gotten nowhere. Though he had been accepted into the Ph.D. math programs at Harvard, Berkeley and Stanford, his father gave him the name of the chief of proprietary options trading at Drexel and, in his words, ''browbeat'' him into calling for an interview. 
 While Drexel didn't work out, the connection led him to Gruntal & Company, a brokerage firm, where he was given a quiz on the market capitalization and float (shares outstanding to the public) of companies as a test. (He remembers not only the companies but the market caps and the floats.)
 In 1982, Mr. Redleaf moved to Chicago and traded options, losing his money twice and quitting the industry once. 
 ''I have a healthy respect for the fates,'' he said. In 1994, he co-founded Deephaven, which he left in 1999 after a disagreement with his partners about his performance. He opened Whitebox in 2000 with $10 million in capital.
 UNDERSTANDING Whitebox from a PowerPoint presentation would be like marrying, sight unseen, a person chosen on eHarmony. An unusual amount of work is required. 
 Gauging risk, for example, is crucial to investors handing over $100 million to manage. ''Value-at-risk,'' for example, is a widely used, and often criticized, way to measure the amount of money a portfolio could lose. Whitebox finds the measure offensive -- not a unique view among hedge funds. What is unusual is that the firm refuses to use it.
 ''Universal, top-down risk management models, based on historic probabilities from a large and well-known universe, work quite well on large randomized portfolios that fully represent that universe,'' Mr. Redleaf wrote in a letter. ''But who wants to pay 1.5 and 20,'' percentage fees charged on assets and profits, ''for a randomly selected portfolio representing awell-known asset class? I have a dart board that will do that for you for free.''
 When a former marketing manager suggested that Whitebox at least calculate value-at-risk for investors who wanted it, Mr. Redleaf rejected the idea as intellectually dishonest and potentially harmful to the firm. 
 The group tries to arbitrage the inefficiencies created by artificial categories (''small cap value'') and organizing principles (stock trader or bond trader?) that dictate how markets tend to operate. Its strategies are rooted in quantitative models. 
 ''The model is a tool to help us think, not a substitute for thought,'' Mr. Redleaf once wrote. Whitebox is best understood by Mr. Redleaf's letters to investors, which quote everyone from Claude Shannon, the father of information theory, to Don Corleone of ''The Godfather'' and try to explain everything from a particularly complex trade to the role of committees (generally useless, with the committees that produced the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution being notable exceptions). 
 A common theme, and one of Mr. Redleaf's pet peeves, is the idea that fiduciaries, those entrusted with acting in the best interests of their clients, have abdicated their obligations. It is a sentiment that segues well into hedge fund investing. ''Good hedge fund managers expose and defy convention, taking all personal and business risks entailed in such defiance to build truly conservative portfolios,'' he wrote in a letter. ''In large part this consists in arbitraging the laziness, ignorance, careerism, conformism, cowardice and dissimulation of supposed fiduciaries.'' 
 Another pet peeve is the media's use of ''lightly regulated'' and ''highly leveraged'' to describe hedge funds, which Mr. Redleaf says are ''differently'' regulated. For example, hedge funds cannot advertise like mutual funds. ''If we could, the advertisement would not be grandpa fishing with his grandson,'' he says dismissively. It would probably be whale harpooning or bear tackling. 
 The academic arrogance does not go too far. Ask Mr. Redleaf about his worst trade, and he sighs and says, ''There are so many.'' In fact, he started one letter with: ''I have been thinking about the business of making predictions, since my own so rarely come true.'' 
 Finding the market inefficiencies Whitebox seeks will be harder as the fund gets bigger. And the laissez-faire environment will be harder to maintain. For now, everyone is focused on the next trade. 
 ''We are certainly not having a credit crisis,'' Mr. Redleaf wrote in his latest letter, which investors received last week. ''But we could be looking at a currency crisis, defined as a collapse in the value of the dollar sufficiently sudden and severe to disrupt international transactions on a grand scale.'' 
 He's got a weird trade for it, but that's for next month's letter. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BETS Andy Redleaf, center, chief of Whitebox Advisors in Minneapolis. He predicted the credit market debacle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN GARVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (70%); ALDEHYDES (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (59%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



41 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: After the Party

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
FOR the last few years, deal makers have been popping Champagne corks and swinging from chandeliers. Now they are popping aspirin and sweeping up the pieces.
 Despite the stock market's recent run, the buyout bubble has burst, and some of the biggest names on Wall Street, including Henry Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company and Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, have found themselves wishing they could back out of some of the deals they agreed to just months ago, before the credit market seized up, and still hold on to their blue-chip reputations.
The hangover may fade, but some effects will linger. Every cycle creates its own lessons, and the latest one will probably lead to a rewrite of the rules for the suspender-wearing set. Aggressive pricing, loose financing and conflicted roles, all of which helped to create the biggest mergers-and-acquisitions period in history, are apt to become rare, at least until the next deal-making boom erases memories of the last bust. 
 ''Will people learn their lessons?'' asked James B. Lee Jr., vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase, who has been making deals for 32 years and has found himself in the middle of several renegotiated and nearly aborted sales. He answered his own question: ''There will come a point in time when this will all happen again, just not on our watch.'' 
 That is not to say that some big strategic transactions will not be made, as shown by the announcement on Tuesday that TD Bank would acquire Commerce Bank for $8.5 billion. Foreign companies may continue to shop for acquisitions in the United States, hoping to take advantage of the weak dollar. 
 But the business of undoing deals has become the immediate focus, turning the world of private equity, once genteel, into a series of billion-dollar spats and not so thinly veiled threats. Public companies, which had been running into the arms of private equity and large takeover premiums, have become more reluctant. 
 Of all the expected changes in the buyout environment, the biggest is already the most evident: deals will slim down substantially, largely because of the disappearance of cheap debt. Six months ago, the possibility of a $100 billion private equity deal seemed almost realistic; today it is laughable. 
 Under pressure from banks that have taken on big losses from debt originally priced too high -- Citigroup wrote down $1.4 billion in the value of leveraged loans this week -- private equity firms will have to pony up more cash to finance their leveraged buyouts. There is an old line on Wall Street: L.B.O. firms like their deals the way James Bond likes his martinis: extra dry. In the case of buyout firms, that means with as little equity as possible. The banks, which had been happy to mix this cocktail, have now taken the drink off the menu. 
 ''I have spoken to the senior leaders of most financial institutions, and they have said, 'This is a good time to revisit the way we do business,' '' said Donald J. Gogel, chief executive of the equity firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, describing how lending practices will get much tougher. 
 Over the summer Mr. Gogel found himself in the unusual spot of pressing to renegotiate the price of the firm's deal to buy Home Depot's wholesale supply unit, partly because of pressure from banks that had lent money for the transaction on terms that would cause them to lose hundreds of millions of dollars. 
 In a business where reputations are often as important as bank account balances, trying to wiggle out of deals creates a conundrum. Private equity firms want to avoid alienating the big banks by trying to accommodate concerns about price, but they also feel compelled to honor their agreements. In August, George R. Roberts, a founder of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, said, ''We made commitments to the boards of directors, and we expect those transactions to close.'' 
 Nonetheless, deals appear to be unraveling or getting renegotiated as quickly as they were put together. Within the last two weeks, Sallie Mae's buyers said they planned to abandon their $25 billion deal unless they got a lower price, and Kohlberg Kravis and Goldman Sachs said they would ditch their $8 billion acquisition of Harmon International, which makes audio systems. 
 In both cases, the buyers contended that those businesses had deteriorated so much that their contracts were void. On Monday, Silver Lake Partners and ValueAct Capital said they had negotiated to pay $65 million to get out of acquiring Acxiom for $2.25 billion. 
 These collapsing deals could convey another lesson, this one for sellers: buyers will not necessarily stand by their deals if things turn sour.
 ''There was a lot of concern about how this would have a negative impact on reputation,'' said Hamilton E. James, the president of Blackstone Group and the heir apparent to chief executive Stephen A. Schwarzman. Some people in the industry had worried that private equity firms would have a hard time making acquisitions because companies would not want to do business with them in the future. And while it is still too early to tell, Mr. James said, ''The world doesn't appear to be reacting that way.'' 
 Although Mr. Gogel said these broken deals could leave some bad feelings surrounding the industry, he doesn't expect them to last. ''If I'm on a board of a target company, I'm going to inquire about the situation,'' he said. But he added: ''I don't believe that there will be permanent reputational damage unless the fact pattern shows a firm acted in bad faith. People realize that the world changed.'' 
 One reason that buyers have been so willing to walk is the recent advent of the termination fee, also called a reverse-breakup fee.
 Devised in the last two years, a termination fee allows private equity firms to abandon deals by paying a lump sum. It was originally intended to encourage firms to complete deals but has turned into a double-edged sword. With a termination fee in place, many private equity firms have decided simply to pay their way out of an undesirable deal.
 Before the reverse-breakup fee existed, if a firm broke its deal, its reputation would take a big hit. But now, Mr. James contends, a broken deal is just a business transaction. ''It's changed the tenor of the discussion in a fundamental way,'' he said. 
 Will termination fees get terminated? Just the opposite, many on Wall Street say. They are likely to become much, much more expensive, making them less attractive as an escape hatch for private equity firms with cold feet.
 Deal makers have also learned the downside of staple financing, a tool created during the last boom that had advisers to sellers also offering loans to buyers -- think of vendor financing circa 1999. This practice created a collision of interests, as demonstrated by the renegotiated sale of Home Depot's supply unit. Lehman Brothers had advised Home Depot on the sale and offered financing to the buyers. When the credit market shifted, however, Lehman Brother turned on Home Depot and told the buyers that it could finance the deal only at a lower price. 
 ''The awkwardness of staple financing is that you end up with two competing client interests, Mr. James said. ''It's an awful place to be. 
 ''Banks should move away from staple financing. I think it would be better for everyone.'' 
 Oddly enough, one aspect of bank lending practices may revert to the mid-1980s, the heyday of Michael Milken and Drexel Burnham Lambert. Instead of banks providing loans to buyout firms and corporations with virtually no ability to get out of them -- the way they did in this most recent cycle -- they could bring back the ''highly confident'' letter.
 These letters, which Mr. Milken invented, simply indicated that a bank would tell a target that it was highly confident it could finance the deal. They were a far cry from the virtually iron-clad commitment letters signed in recent years, when banks did cartwheels to snag business -- a highly lucrative practice when things were good, but painful when things turned bad. 
 Much of how well the lessons are learned will depend on how quickly deal activity recovers from the summer slump. A fast rebound could mean that all is forgiven. If things stay slow, however, buyout firms, banks and lawyers will have plenty of time to think about things they would have done differently and look in the mirror.
 ''All you have is your reputation,'' Andy Kessler, a former hedge fund manager, wrote in his book ''Wall Street Meat'' after the dot-com bubble burst. ''Taint it and someone else will fill your shoes. Longevity comes from maintaining that reputation.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After hours at the New York Stock Exchange, 1938. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS) (pg. H1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); MERGERS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); KKR & CO LP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); KKR (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (56%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



42 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: A Professor's Word on a Buyout Tax Battle

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
MORE than a year ago, Victor Fleischer, an untenured professor at the University of Illinois College of Law, finished a draft of a paper about the tax treatment of private equity.
 At the time, he was just hoping to get the paper published. Taxes are an unglamorous topic, and, worse, Mr. Fleischer's paper was about the arcane intricacies of ''carried interest,'' hardly a household term. The paper argues that private equity managers are using a tax loophole to pay capital gains rates of 15 percent on carried interest, instead of the ordinary income tax rate of 35 percent. Carried interest, which comes out of a private equity fund's profit, provides most of the compensation for fund managers.
The paper eventually landed with some Congressional staff members, who were looking for ways to pay for a rollback in the alternative minimum tax. Today, carried interest is front-page news. It is the subject of hearings on Capitol Hill and the focus of a proposed bill, whose backers include Representative Sander Levin, Democrat of Michigan, that could cost executives in the buyout industry more than $4 billion. 
 Washington's scrutiny has coincided with the initial public offering of the Blackstone Group, the equity firm, which yielded big payouts for its co-founder, Stephen A. Schwarzman, and other executives. The Senate is considering a separate measure, known as the Blackstone bill, that would raise taxes on Blackstone and other buyout firms that become publicly traded.
 In August, when Mr. Fleischer testified before the Senate Finance Committee on carried interest, DealBook asked him about the whirlwind his paper had caused. Below are portions of that discussion.
 Q.When did you first learn how private equity was taxed?
 A. I worked on a few private equity and venture capital fund formations when I was practicing law. This was back in 1999 and 2000. The partnership tax rules have been in place for a long time, since 1954. What surprised me was the huge disparity between carried interest and corporate stock options. They both compensate highly paid executives, but carried interest gets much more favorable tax treatment.
 Q. Did the disparity in tax rates strike you as a problem at the time?
 A. Not in the way that you think. I didn't focus on the distributive justice consequences of the rules. My job then was to help my clients. I was more focused on the way that the tax rules might distort the contract between the fund manager and their investors. Venture capital and private equity are fascinating institutions. They create new companies and turn around old ones. I was mainly interested in describing how the existing tax rules might affect the fund managers' incentives at the margins.
 Q. How did lawmakers get hold of your paper?
 A. I'm not sure. I assume a staffer was doing research on the industry and found a draft of my paper somehow. I was surprised and pleased. Academics get razzed all the time about being out of touch and irrelevant. So it's great to be able to contribute to a real-world debate.
 Q.Did you expect your paper to cause such a fuss?
 A. Honestly, I never thought anyone in Washington would read it except maybe as a part of a reform panel or something. I was trying to make a contribution to the tax literature, not stir up a hornet's nest in D.C. The issue has turned out to be salient in ways that I never expected. It's become a sort of proxy fight over the Bush tax cuts and the broader issues of income inequality. Obviously that goes way beyond what I expected.
 Q. Some say private equity firms will go overseas if the tax structure is changed. Do you agree?
 A. It's certainly true that, on the margins, some activity will move overseas. But not as much as people seem to think. And remember that the United Kingdom is looking at its carried interest rules, too.
 Q. What about those who say your proposal will not raise enough tax revenue to make a difference?
 A. When did $3 billion or $4 billion a year become trivial? It's not going to fix the alternative minimum tax by itself, but it's something.
 Q. How did the private equity community react to your proposal?
 A. Early on, I was approached by a lobbyist for the private equity industry, who offered me a consulting arrangement. I declined. Other academics have accepted money. Personally, I don't think academic research should be funded by clients who have an economic stake in the outcome.
 Q. Did you have friends in private equity? Are they still friends?
 A. I have a few venture capitalist friends who feel they were unfairly caught up in this. They see funding technology start-ups as very different from what private equity does with established companies. But it's not like I was out to hike taxes on anyone because I don't like the industry. I just want a tax system with a broad tax base, which allows for lower overall rates.
 Q.Do you think Congress would have seized on this issue without your paper?
 A. Presumably Congress would have found its way to this issue sooner or later. You know, it's not like I discovered a new theory of quantum physics. Private equity firms and their lawyers have known about this for a long time. My paper just teed it up as an issue of social policy that Congress might consider.
 Q. What do you make of the private equity industry's lobbying group, the Private Equity Council?
 A. The Private Equity Council has done a great job using sound bites to shape the debate. It started out as a debate about the tax rates that wealthy fund managers pay. Now it's about whether tax reform would hurt pensioners, minorities, and destroy capitalism as we know it.
 Q.Magic Johnson, the former basketball star, recently said he opposed changing the tax code for private equity, arguing it would hurt minorities and women. Do you buy that?
 A. That's ridiculous.
 Q. What do you think the effects of your paper will be?
 A. I hope the outcome of my work is getting tenure at the University of Illinois. As for D.C., I hope that Representative Levin's bill, or something like it, gets passed. But I'm not sure that will happen in the short run, and if it does, it would presumably get vetoed.
 In the short term, I do think the Blackstone bill has a good chance. It's not a long-term solution to carried interest, because it only affects the handful of publicly traded private equity firms. But the bill responds to Blackstone's gamesmanship. Blackstone thumbed its nose at Congress with an aggressive tax structure in the I.P.O., and Congress will probably respond.
 Q.Who has done more to increase taxes on private equity, you or Steve Schwarzman?
 A. Definitely Schwarzman. I just wrote a paper. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: UPROAR: Victor Fleischer, a University of Illinois professor, wrote a paper arguing that private equity managers use a loophole to pay fewer taxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP GREENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); INCOME TAX (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (66%); STOCK OPTIONS (61%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%)

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



43 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obits; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 585 words

PERSON: James Michaels 

HEADLINE: James Michaels, Longtime Forbes Editor, Dies at 86

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
James W. Michaels, who gave an acerbic, contrarian voice to Forbes magazine in 37 years as its editor and influenced generations of business journalists, died Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan and Rhinebeck, N.Y.
 The cause was pneumonia, said his son, James Jr.
 Mr. Michaels took over as editor of Forbes in 1961, when American journalism remained a polite, dry affair, and corporate spin was reported without much skepticism. Anticipating the direction much of the media would turn in the decades that followed, he made Forbes opinionated, interpretive and often indecorous, a magazine that was staunchly pro-business (and, its critics said, pro-wealthy) but did not hesitate to skewer companies and executives it saw as failures. 
 He often refused to permit articles on topics that other publications had covered, no matter how appealing or important, insisting that his staff find good stories ahead of the competition. 
 Forbes was among the first publications to pay a lot of attention to Warren E. Buffett, and at the top of a glowing 1974 profile, it quoted him as saying that stocks were so undervalued that he felt ''like an oversexed guy in a harem'' -- the one concession to propriety being to change the last word of that quotation from ''whorehouse.''
 Mr. Michaels was an anomaly in modern journalism, an editor at a major publication who insisted on personally editing much of what it published. He strove to make articles shorter and more blunt, with a more clearly stated point of view.
 Mr. Michaels served as mentor to a long line of prominent journalists, including Norman Pearlstine, who later became the managing editor of The Wall Street Journal and editor in chief of Time Inc., and Allan Sloan, an editor and columnist at Newsweek and Fortune.
 But many of his former underlings remember Mr. Michaels as much for his brutal assessments of their work as for his incisive teaching. He belittled the ''on the other hand'' kind of balance so many publications strive for as mere wishy-washiness.
 Former reporters and editors recall weekly story meetings as a trial by fire, when anyone with a proposal had to be ready to fend off a barrage of harsh questions from the editor.
 Mr. Michaels ignored popular culture; he once sat next to Howard Cosell on an airplane but did not recognize him. He eschewed the role of celebrity editor, arguing that journalists should not socialize with the people they cover, and leaving it to the magazine's owner, Malcolm Forbes, to go to parties with the rich and famous. 
 Born in Buffalo, Mr. Michaels graduated from Harvard in 1943 with a bachelor's degree in economics. He joined the American Field Service and served as an ambulance driver, attached to the British Army in Burma during World War II.
 After the war, as a reporter for United Press International, he covered India, and scooped his competitors on the assassination of Gandhi. He joined Forbes as a reporter in 1954.
 Mr. Michaels is survived by his wife, Jean Briggs; a brother, Albert, and a sister, Harriet, both of Buffalo; three children from a previous marriage, Ann Frank of New Haven. James Jr., of Falls Church, Virginia, and Robert, of Andover, Mass.; and six granddaughters.
 Mr. Michaels embraced a rough image of the magazine, and himself. When an editor of the rival Fortune magazine was quoted as saying of Forbes, ''They're nasty, venal people,'' Mr. Michaels pinned the quotation to his office wall, and said, ''I just thought it was terrific.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 5, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An obituary yesterday about James W. Michaels, former editor of Forbes magazine, misidentified the news agency for which he worked after World War II. It was United Press, not United Press International. (U.P.I. was formed in 1958 when United Press and the International News Service merged; by then Mr. Michaels was working for Forbes.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James W. Michaels in 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); ARMIES (63%); WORLD WAR II (62%)

COMPANY: FORBES INC (92%); TIME INC (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

WARREN BUFFETT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



44 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: Lean Crop of Dollars

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With Americans eating bad diets and getting fatter by the year, the nation's produce industry made a bold political calculation. Surely, farmers thought, the government could be talked into supporting crops like New Jersey tomatoes, Michigan apples and California spinach.
 A new farm bill is on the drawing board in Washington, and growers of fruits, vegetables, tree nuts and nursery crops, known collectively as specialty crops, came up with an $8.5 billion wish list. They built political alliances. They doubled their campaign contributions. They even sent nine perky watermelon queens in white sashes to Capitol Hill to press their case.
 But confronting what a United States senator calls ''old-time power politics,'' mastered long ago by savvier farm lobbies like cotton and corn, the specialty crop growers are coming up short of their goals. They have secured only $1.6 billion so far in a House vote and are scrambling to improve on that as the Senate takes up the issue this week.
 ''We have a voice in Washington, but it isn't anywhere near what the cotton boys or corn or soybeans or ethanol has,'' said Chuck Obern, a vegetable farmer in Clewiston, Fla. 
 Farming may conjure up images of red barns and Holstein cows. But in Washington, farm politics is a game of sharp elbows and opportunistic alliances, and the agriculture policies that emanate from Capitol Hill are remarkably resistant to change.
 Those policies come up for renewal about every five years. What is emerging this time, in legislation that has passed the House and is pending in the Senate, looks a lot like the system that has been on the books for decades.
 It would spend about $14 billion a year on payments to farmers, with billions going to growers of big commodity crops like feed corn and cotton, according to the Congressional Budget Office. It would spend little on crops that most people recognize as food, like carrots, peaches, almonds or spinach.
 Such crops, along with nuts and nursery plants, generate almost half the nation's crop receipts, $55 billion out of a total $120 billion in 2006. But the industry is fragmented and growers have never had much political clout.
 Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, is a veteran of the farm wars. He summed up the way things work on the Hill this way: ''You scratch my back and I'll scratch your back, and we'll save programs that are worthless.''
 Commodity farming groups and their advocates in Congress beg to differ, of course.
 Their crops occupy most of the nation's farmland, and they point to the crucial role of those crops in supporting rural economies and in strengthening the United States trade position. For seven decades, government subsidy programs have provided a safeguard for farmers against the vagaries of world markets and weather, and the farmers are determined to protect them.
 ''If we don't support agriculture in this country, people are going to be faced with more and more imported foods, many of which are largely unregulated,'' said Dwight Roberts, chief executive of the United States Rice Producers Association. ''You can't stay in business at the cost of equipment and production costs without some kind of support in times of low prices.'' 
 American farmers provide safe and inexpensive food at home, and they supply crucial food aid abroad in times of crisis, Mr. Roberts said. ''They aren't going to feed those people off table grapes and bell peppers,'' he said.
 Farm subsidies were created during the Great Depression as a temporary measure to lift farmers out of poverty. They have been around in one form or another ever since.
 In the 2006 budget year, the federal government issued almost $22 billion in farm payments, including money for conservation programs, according to the Congressional Budget Office. That number that is expected to decline significantly in coming years because prices for commodities like corn and wheat are high these days. (Some government payments are made only when prices are low). In the 2007 budget year, which ended Sept. 30, the federal government is estimated to have spent about $14.8 billion on subsidies.
 The biggest beneficiaries of farm payments are the growers of a handful of commodities, primarily corn, cotton, soybeans, wheat and rice, which received a total of $7.4 billion in the 2007 budget year. Of that, $3.2 billion went to corn farmers and $1 billion to wheat farmers. Cotton farmers received $2.4 billion, even as global trade courts ruled that some American cotton subsidies were distorting trade and advocacy groups protested their effect on African farmers.
 The House version of the 2007 farm bill would keep most of the subsidies for commodities like corn and cotton intact. Specialty crop farmers would get $1.6 billion over five years, or about $320 million a year, for the programs they favor, which do not include direct subsidies. Under existing law, they get $65 million to $100 million a year. One reason commodity subsidies are so durable is that farm politics are regional, not Republican or Democratic. The strongest subsidy advocates in Congress come from rural states where commodity agriculture is a potent economic force, like Iowa, Mississippi and North Dakota. Those representatives dominate the Congressional agriculture committees that write the farm bill.
 Another reason is that the farm lobby has sought allies to broaden its coalition beyond rural states. For instance, nutrition programs such as food stamps were added to the farm bill more than three decades ago in part to ensure support from urban lawmakers. The authors of the farm bill try to spread enough money among nutrition programs, crop subsidies and farm-related conservation programs to secure the votes for passage. 
 For decades, even as commodity growers collected hundreds of billions from the government, produce farmers wanted nothing to do with Washington. Concentrated in the Sun Belt states of California, Texas and Florida, they enjoyed healthy prices for their crops and managed to grow them with no government subsidies.
 But in recent years, the industry has confronted unprecedented challenges. Outbreaks of food-borne illness from contaminated lettuce and spinach created an urgent need for research to safeguard the food supply. Foreign competition and labor shortages, meanwhile, have decimated some produce sectors like garlic, tomatoes and apricots.
 Produce farmers argue that consumers have a stake in their success, and should therefore support their requests for farm bill dollars. Without a strong and competitive produce industry in the United States, consumers would depend on foreign sources of fruits and vegetables where regulations may not be as stringent, they contend.
 And the industry wants government money to promote consumption of fruits and vegetables. For instance, the House version of the farm bill would expand a program that provides free fruits and vegetables as school snacks to all 50 states.
 Produce growers first decided they needed help the last time the farm bill was up for revision, in 2002. They debated whether to ask Congress for subsidies but ultimately decided to seek money for research and marketing instead, mostly to help farmers compete with an onslaught of foreign competition.
 With little experience lobbying Congress, the industry's campaign fell flat. 
 ''We put together a nice little booklet for the farm bill. We were so proud of it,'' said Robert L. Guenther, senior vice president of public policy for the United Fresh Produce Association. ''We didn't work the Hill much.''
 Having learned from those mistakes, industry leaders began planning for the current farm bill in May 2005. They set their sights much higher, $8.5 billion for marketing, research and grants, but no direct subsidies. They built an alliance that included winemakers, nurseries and other groups, and started cultivating ties on the Hill.
 Simultaneously, the industry sidled up to a coalition seeking huge cuts in subsidies for commodity groups. But some groups, including the specialty crop industry, abandoned that coalition after House negotiators offered money for their programs.
 Industry leaders acknowledge they used the reform coalition to gain leverage. After winning $1.6 billion in the House, they noted it was bigger than any previous appropriation -- but also said it was far less than they wanted.
 ''We would not have been able to support it if it was any lower,'' Mr. Guenther said.
 The industry tactics angered some longtime critics of farm subsidies.
 ''If there is a cheaper date in town, I'd like to meet them,'' said Kenneth Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, an advocacy group that backs changes in farm policy. ''We would never trust them to work with again.''
 Whether the specialty crop industry's political strategy will pay off should become apparent in coming weeks.
 The Senate agriculture committee is dominated by senators from the Midwest, the Great Plains and the South, all of them fighting for favored programs. For instance, Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, wants to retain most existing subsidies and set up a permanent fund to help farmers after natural disasters. It is not clear such demands will leave much money for fruit and vegetable farmers. 
 The specialty crop industry has put out a letter from 36 senators promoting its size and importance and seeking $3.2 billion, twice the amount in the House bill.The industry also brought farmers and the watermelon queens to Washington last month to plead its case.
 ''We all came, and we all got separated into groups and did the lobbying thing,'' Emily Frey, the 20-year-old watermelon queen from Illinois and Indiana, said afterward. Members of Congress ''definitely knew that we meant it, we were serious and we needed their help.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The watermelon queens on their lobbying visit to Capitol Hill, part of an effort seeking federal money for specialty crops. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELEANOR BULLOCK/NATIONAL WATERMELON ASSOCIATION) (pg. C1)
 Emily Frey, a watermelon queen, right, during her trip to Capitol Hill. ''We all came, and we all got separated into groups and did the lobbying thing,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (78%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUDGETS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



45 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1654 words

HEADLINE: For Baltimore, Housing Slump Slows a Revival

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
Colorful banners, draped across buildings like giant flags, urge people driving through Baltimore's rebuilt downtown neighborhoods to move into the new condos and apartments inside. ''Sophisticated Urban Living W/Garage and Gated Off-Street Parking'' one sign declares in the long campaign to gentrify the central city.
 Until recently, the ballyhoo was not much needed. The revival was going well, in Baltimore and in other cities making the transition away from manufacturing. But now, the banners are the most visible evidence of the incipient damage to this major American city from the turmoil in the national economy.
 As home sales dry up, tax revenues fade, foreclosures surge and hiring declines, a new caution is inhibiting activity. 
 ''I don't see a recession mentality,'' said Atwood Collins III, executive vice president of the M&T Bank Corporation, who complains that the national media are amplifying the bad news. ''But you would have to be deaf, dumb and blind not to be a little infected by what is being said.''
 How broadly the infection will spread is still not clear. By no means is every metropolitan area around the country experiencing similar problems. Even in Baltimore there are strengths. The port is thriving from trade. Financial services companies are strong, and the federal government is channeling money into medical research and to companies that locate here, having won contracts with the National Security Agency, which has headquarters nearby. 
 But the fallout from the housing downturn is already showing up as a setback in this struggling city's effort to reinvent itself as a robust commercial center, one in which a spruced-up and rebuilt downtown has attracted new residents, particularly young people, as well as more office workers.
 In recent years, the housing boom propelled this process forward, here in Baltimore and in Cleveland, Memphis and Pittsburgh, among other cities. That is no longer true. 
 ''Now that the bubble is gone,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight, ''the downdraft is potentially a huge negative for growth in these cities and in the country as a whole.''
 In Baltimore's case, deserted commercial buildings and dilapidated row houses were rebuilt into middle-class condominiums, town houses and rental apartments. In less than a decade, the number of downtown housing units doubled, according to Robert M. Aydukovic, vice president for economic development at Downtown Partnership of Baltimore.
 ''You finally see people on the streets carrying shopping bags and pushing baby carriages,'' Mr. Aydukovic noted during a walking tour.
 The housing bubble brought perhaps the biggest lift. It became the impetus for a major expansion of Baltimore's initial redevelopment project: the Inner Harbor complex of hotels, museums, offices and restaurants, much of it built more than 20 years ago. 
 To help fill the new housing, real estate agents have promoted Baltimore as a bedroom community for Washington, arguing that condos and rentals here are much less expensive than in the nation's capital 30 miles away. That price break, they argue, more than justifies the 50-to-60-minute commute each way by train. 
 The sales pitch worked well for a while, particularly among young people. ''They were getting priced out of the D.C. market so they started buying condos and row houses near the railroad station,'' said Arnold Graf of the Industrial Areas Foundation, a national organization that is helping the large population of impoverished families here, some once employed in manufacturing. ''Now, with the slowdown, these properties aren't selling very well anymore.''
 Construction is still highly noticeable downtown. There is unfinished housing, as well as hotels and office buildings, encased in scaffolds, on many central city streets. But in August homes that sold in the greater Baltimore area had been on the market for 84 days, on average, up from 58 days a year earlier and 44 in 2005. Nearly all of that sales slowdown, according to Metropolitan Regional Information Systems, was concentrated in the city rather than the five suburban counties.
 The slowdown is mirrored nationwide. Sales of existing homes fell 4.3 percent in August, the National Association of Realtors reported recently, to the lowest level in five years. And new-home sales plunged 8.3 percent to their worst level in seven years as prices dropped sharply. 
 Nominally home prices here have held up -- averaging just over $323,000 in August, virtually unchanged from August of last year -- but only 2,868 units were sold, down from 3,460 a year earlier. Trying to explain the sharp drop, Joseph T. Landers III, executive vice president of the Greater Baltimore Board of Realtors, suggested that half the decline might be attributed to the withdrawal of investors who, during the boom, bought a property, fixed it up and then resold at a profit.
 Among homeowners, foreclosures have more than doubled in just a few months, reaching 1,630 in greater Baltimore in the second quarter alone, compared with 682 in the January-to-March period, according to Maryland's Department of Housing and Community Development.
 In the spring quarter, 25 percent of the foreclosures were in the city itself. The numbers are up even in Belair Edison, a stable working-class neighborhood of neat two-story row houses adjacent to a picturesque wooded public park. 
 The homes are occupied mostly by teachers, police officers, firefighters, shop owners, university workers and similarly employed wage earners. Some had originally taken on standard fixed-rate mortgages and then, to save money or take out equity, had gotten into trouble by refinancing at variable rates, according to Mark Sissman, president of Healthy Neighborhoods, a nonprofit organization that helps homeowners. 
 ''They were offered loans that in some cases did not require them to escrow for taxes and insurance, and they took them,'' Mr. Sissman said, ''and then they wake up with a six-month tax bill and if they can no longer refinance, they are in trouble.'' 
 Several nonprofit groups have stepped up assistance to families in trouble, helping them renegotiate loans or, if necessary, sell their homes so the houses will not be left empty, starting the deterioration that can turn a neighborhood into a slum. 
 Despite the drag from the housing downturn, there are several countervailing forces sustaining Baltimore's economy. The port operation, with 18,000 workers, thrives. Among other traffic, all of the vehicles that Toyota imports for sale east of the Mississippi come through here. And the Baltimore-Washington International Airport is a magnet for light industry and commerce. 
 For all the recent upheaval in the markets, financial services remain an important strength of the local economy. Legg Mason and T. Rowe Price have headquarters here, employing a total of nearly 7,000 people.
 On another front, companies holding contracts with the National Security Agency, the huge spy agency that monitors communications, increasingly settle in Baltimore's southern suburbs, not far from N.S.A. headquarters.
 ''The Baltimore economy is propped up a bit by the war on terror,'' said Andrew Frank, a deputy mayor. 
 The Johns Hopkins University complex, the largest employer in the metropolitan area, with 45,000 on the payroll at the university and its huge medical and research operation, is in the early stages of an 88-acre expansion.
 Slum neighborhoods are beginning to give way to new buildings for research, medical care, housing and retailing. But much of the funding for the project -- and for a similar one that the University of Maryland is undertaking across town -- is from the federal government, particularly the National Institutes of Health. That funding is not growing as much as it was earlier in the decade. 
 So the project is proceeding more slowly, which, in turn, has fostered other restraint.
 ''Our faculty is in control of much of our spending,'' said Richard A. Grossi, vice president and chief financial officer of Johns Hopkins Medicine, ''and when they see N.I.H. holding back, they hold back in their behavior.''
 Mr. Grossi noted, for example, that employment at the university-medical complex is growing now at 700 or so people annually, down from about 1,000 a couple of years ago. But Johns Hopkins, he said, is still a powerhouse in the metropolitan economy.
 ''Relative to what others are doing in Baltimore, we are still a driver,'' Mr. Grossi said. ''But relative to what we were five years ago, today we are a little more cautious.''
 Local government spending is about to be squeezed as well, as tax revenue tied to housing -- particularly a transfer tax that is collected each time a house is sold -- starts to decline. That falls hardest on the city itself, home to nearly 641,000 of greater Baltimore's 2.7 million people. While the overall unemployment rate for the metropolitan area is only 4 percent, in the city it is nearly 7 percent.
 Thanks in large part to the transfer tax, the city had budget surpluses for three fiscal years, through last June. ''The growth in that revenue was off the charts,'' Mr. Frank, the deputy mayor, said. ''That is now over. It means that our flush days are behind us.''
 In the inevitable budget tightening ahead, some of the city's black leaders are concerned that funding for recreation centers will be frozen at the present $5 million annually. They see the 40 existing centers as a necessary antidote to a surge in gang violence, offering after-school activities that take teenagers off the streets. They want the budget doubled, so the city can add 30 more centers. 
 ''We have a rising gang problem that is starting to cripple certain neighborhoods,'' said Bishop Douglas I. Miles of the Koinonia Baptist Church. One of those on the list, he said, is the ''previously stable'' Belair Edison. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Oct. 4 about the economy of the Baltimore metropolitan area misstated the extent to which sales of homes had slowed in the City of Baltimore, as opposed to the five suburban counties surrounding it. About one-third of the slowing occurred in the city -- not ''nearly all.'' (The city accounted for a larger percentage of the slowdown in sales than any of the suburban counties.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jed Dodds, his daughter Sadie and their dog Ruby in the Hampden neighborhood of Baltimore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS DRENNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: BALTIMORE BLUES: Economic turmoil, particularly in housing and mortgage lending, is starting to hold back the revivals of major cities like Baltimore. Employment is growing more slowly in the metropolitan area, which includes the city of Baltimore and five surrounding counties. Home foreclosures are up sharply, to 1,630 in the second quarter compared with 682 in the January-to-March period. (pg. A24) (Sources: Global Insight
Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development)
Chart showing the slow growth of employment in the city of Baltimore. MAP
 Map of the city of Baltimore. (pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CITY LIFE (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITIES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); RECESSION (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); RESTAURANTS (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

COMPANY: M&T BANK CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%)

TICKER: MTB (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



46 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM DAMASCUS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Syria, Seeking Investors, Turns Cautiously to Iran

BYLINE: By HUGH NAYLOR

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Ahmed Ansare likes to think of himself as a pioneer.
 His petroleum recycling business, the Damascus Petrochemical Refinery Company, was the first private Iranian company to set foot in Syria, the first of many, it now seems.
 ''Billions of dollars of Iranian projects are expected to be coming here now,'' Mr. Ansare, an Iranian citizen who started operations here in 2003, said in impeccable Arabic as he lounged on a khaki-colored couch at his office in Damascus. 
 From car manufacturing plants and a proposed $2 billion industrial zone for Iranian businesses, to plans to overhaul urban transportation systems, Iranian companies are charging into Syria, looking to cash in on a recent privatization push by Damascus. 
 Weighed down by a behemoth public sector, an influx of nearly two million Iraqi refugees and falling oil production, Syria's leaders are trying to liberalize their economy in hopes of avoiding a financial meltdown.
 In another time, the privatization effort might have presented an opportunity for the United States and Europe to use their enormous commercial muscle to drive a wedge between Syria and Iran, Washington's foremost antagonists in the region. 
 But the United States imposed sanctions in 2004 as punishment for Syrian support of militant Palestinian and Lebanese organizations. These banned American exports to Syria and gave President Bush the added option of outlawing American investment in the country, effectively scaring off American and other Western companies.
 At the same time, Iran, the subject of two recent rounds of United Nations sanctions for its suspected nuclear weapons ambitions and a long boycott by the United States, has few opportunities to invest abroad. The end result, Western diplomats and analysts say, is that Washington has effectively pushed Damascus and Tehran into deepening their alliance of nearly three decades. 
 ''It's logical why we have been working much closer with the Iranians,'' said Mustafa Alkafri, head of the Syrian Investment Agency, a government body. ''We're both under the American blockade.''
 The Syrian government estimates that Iranian investment in 2006 alone surged to more than $400 million, making Tehran the third-largest foreign investor here, behind Saudi Arabia and Turkey. Though exact figures are unavailable, by some estimates Iran has invested a total of $3 billion in Syria, most of that in the last few years.
 In September, officials from both countries announced plans to expand Iranian projects in Syria to $10 billion over the next five years, which would cast Tehran as the economic powerhouse here. 
 The countries' growing economic ties are reinforced by cultural ties, with more than half a million Iranian tourists, mainly pilgrims, flocking to shrines in Syria every year.
 ''Syria looks a lot like the Iranian presence in Najaf,'' said Vali Nasr, a professor at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, referring to the Shiite holy city in Iraq. ''You have businesses springing up that cater to Iranian pilgrims, which deepen personal relationships that continue to grow and evolve into partnerships.''
 Syria's sudden interest in foreign investment, and Iran's eagerness to supply it, springs from an emerging economic crisis here. Food and energy subsidies, for instance, are predicted to cost $7 billion next year, almost 20 percent of the country's gross domestic product, but the state has been unable to increase tax collections significantly. 
 ''We didn't know how drastic the situation was until recently,'' said Andrew Tabler, editor of Syria Today magazine. ''Syria has no choice but to follow the liberalization path.''
 But according to Mr. Tabler, American sanctions ''are preventing the U.S. from using the one lever of influence it has right now, which is economics.'' 
 Some analysts doubt that assertion, saying that political issues dividing the United States and Syria -- from Israel to the activities of Hezbollah, the Syrian-backed Shiite party that Washington considers a terrorist group -- need to be settled before Syria will ever begin reconsidering its growing ties with Iran.
 And even in the absence of sanctions, a jungle of red tape in Damascus and political turmoil in nearby Lebanon and Iraq would still give American investors pause. 
 Bureaucratic obstacles are said to be holding up a number of Iranian projects, with several stuck in the planning stages. ''In general, it's much easier and more profitable to invest in places like Egypt and Jordan,'' said Jihad Yazigi, editor of The Syria Report, an online Syrian economic journal. 
 But none of that has dampened the zeal of Iranian companies, in part, many here say, because of backing from Tehran. 
 State-owned and even privately held Iranian companies often have links to political figures like Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a financial oligarch and former president of Iran, and even the Revolutionary Guards, according to Mr. Nasr, of the Fletcher School. 
 ''There is no doubt that Iranian economic expansion is going to markets where there are political interests,'' Mr. Nasr said. 
 This form of state-led capitalism allows Tehran to direct its investments more easily in its desired sphere of influence, he said, much like President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela's neosocialist agenda across Latin America. Places like western Afghanistan and southern Iraq, for instance, war zones that are considered too perilous for most investors, are flush with Iranian-made goods.
 ''At one level, Iranian investment is strategic,'' Mr. Nasr said. ''At another, it's simply based on economic opportunity. But you can bet that Rafsanjani won't pass up a chance to invest in Syria.''
 That has some Syrians concerned. One senior adviser to the Syrian government, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss such matters, said it was no coincidence that Iran was investing in strategic industries like concrete production and power generation.
 ''These industries are vital and would give the Iranians a huge say,'' the adviser said.
 In addition to these projects, he said Syria was considering having Iranian companies manage the nationwide A.T.M. network, print Syrian passports and supervise a proposed system to allocate monthly allotments of food subsidies using debit cards.
 ''These projects will give them knowledge about all of us, even our personal spending behavior,'' the adviser said. ''This isn't just about profit -- it's about influence.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: About 500,000 Iranian pilgrims, like this couple, visit Syria every year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Syrian leaders, including President Bashar al-Assad, far right, toured a car plant built with Iranian funds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YOUSSEF BADAWI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); PETROCHEMICALS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); REFUGEES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (62%); LAW SCHOOLS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (52%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (95%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN (90%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



47 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; LIFE'S WORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: A Capital Idea For Women

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN. 
E-mail: Belkin@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SOMEWHERE out there are hundreds of thousands of women who should be millionaires. You can find them in rented executive suites and home offices -- women who started down the road to riches, but who got lost along the way.
 It is a well-known and oft-quoted fact that women are starting businesses in the United States at twice the rate of men. The result, according to the Center for Women's Business Research, is 10.4 million businesses owned by women nationwide.
 That these businesses aren't doing all that well is far less talked about. About 43 percent of all businesses owned by women have revenue of $10,000 or less. Over 70 percent have revenue of less than $50,000. And only 3 percent have revenue exceeding $1 million, according to the Women Presidents' Organization, a nonprofit group for women whose businesses take in $1 million or more. (By contrast, men clear $1 million at more than twice that rate, or about 7 percent.) 
 Nell Merlino has made it her business to close this gap. She founded Count Me In for Women's Economic Independence, an online microlender created to help finance companies owned by women. The theory behind her business was that these companies would thrive if they had the capital. Instead she found that when she made capital available, only the owners of tiny businesses applied. The applicants had plans not to become huge, but merely less tiny.
 ''They get to a certain point and they stall,'' Ms. Merlino said. 
 Lack of access to capital, which she had thought was the whole problem, was only a part. True, women have had the legal right to business loans in their own names just since 1974, and men still have an easier time raising investment capital from friends and family. But even women with adequate financing struggle to build their companies. 
 ''To get anywhere they have to work harder than they have ever worked before,'' Ms. Merlino said. ''They think that if they are at $250,000, then in order to get to $500,000 they have to work twice as hard. And they know that twice as hard will kill them.''
 Understanding their ambivalence, she said, is easier if you remember why most women go into business: to regain control over their lives. In that context, it seems logical to sacrifice potential profit for time.
 But Ms. Merlino said this logic was ''backwards.'' What it takes to get ''unstuck'' is usually to hire help or outsource work, which may seem like taking on risk, but may really be buying yourself time.
 Ms. Merlino's interpretation is not universally shared. ''I do not hold that theory that they stall,'' said Marsha Firestone, the president and founder of the Women Presidents' Organization, which has 1,100 members who average $12 million in annual revenue. ''Those women who are most motivated will succeed just as well as motivated men will succeed.''
 She does agree, however, that because women ''came to the party later,'' they lag behind men. Now that there is parity in numbers, she said, it is time to push for parity in revenue. And while she finds the idea that women stall ''a little insulting to women,'' she said she has no argument with Ms. Merlino's goal.
 That goal is to reach one million businesses owned by women with annual revenue of more than $1 million within the next decade. To do this Ms. Merlino founded Make Mine a Million two years ago. Known as M3 for short, the event is a cross between the television shows ''American Idol,'' ''The Apprentice'' and ''Queen for a Day.''
 Women whose businesses have revenue of $250,000 or more can fill out an application dissecting their business and explaining how it might be taken to the $1 million level within 18 months. Twenty finalists are chosen for each event, which rotate nationwide. (The next is in New York on Oct. 23.) Each woman has three minutes to make her case in front of hundreds of small business owners. The audience votes, and the winners are named with a drum roll and fanfare worthy of a beauty pageant.
 Applicants say that filling out of the application itself is enlightening. ''The questions that are asked gets you thinking more strategically, more ambitiously,'' said Monica Tomasso, who is hoping to be a finalist in New York. Her company, Health e-Lunch Kids, delivers lunch to schools and camps in the Washington area. Parents order 400 lunches online daily, and a staff of four prepares and transports them all.
 In the last 12 months she has taken in $300,000, but not until she filled out the M3 form did she calculate how many lunches it would take to reach $1 million.
 ''One thousand lunches every school day for the 10 months of school,'' she said. 
 Focusing on what it will take to grow is the point, Ms. Merlino said, because growth is often not the first priority of women in business. Open, the small-business arm of American Express, is a founding sponsor of M3, and in a survey of 627 customers released this week, it found that while men say their No. 1 goal is ''growing the business,'' women say their top priority is ''maintaining the business.''
 The winners receive more than prodding to think big. There is access to a line of credit from Open, and to consulting from American International Group about insurance and work-life balance tools like emergency child care. And there is an ongoing business coaching.
 A coach from M3 helped Garnett Newcombe see ''that I was a little bit of a control freak,'' she said. Ms. Newcombe is the owner of Human Potential Consultants, a job training and placement agency in California for participants in government disability, welfare and parole programs. When Ms. Newcombe won an M3 competition last June, she had nine employees, gross revenue of $350,000 a year, and a dawn-to-midnight schedule.
 Weekly phone conversations with her coach allowed her to create more specific job descriptions for her existing employees and then to trust those she had hired to do their jobs. ''I had thought I was the only one who could do anything,'' she said, ''and that I had to be there all the time.''
 The consultant also noticed that while Ms. Newcombe had applied for and received a number of designations -- minority-owned business, small business -- that qualified her for government work, she had never used those designations to bring in work. Last summer she bid on and received a contract to provide job training and placement for Marines at the base in Twentynine Palms, Calif., where she now has a satellite office with 70 employees.
 This year she projects revenue of $3 million. She has contract commitments over the next five years that are worth close to $14 million. She still gets up early, but she uses the time to read, not worry. Her working day is 8 to 5.
 M3 has chosen 80 women in the past two years, and Ms. Newcombe is among the 10 who have cleared the $1 million mark; 34 more are on track to do so by the end of this year. That 55 percent are succeeding is evidence that intense business coaching can work. That 45 percent have not shows that a million dollars is a lot of money.
 ''What we're learning is that for some people it takes longer than our original thought of 12 to 18 months,'' Ms. Merlino said, listing a dozen or so business that are within a hair's breadth of $1 million but need another year. 
 Meanwhile, Ms. Newcombe, 55, has started a different kind of counting. Her goal is to maintain her current level of business and to add one to two contracts a year. Then in about four years, she said, ''I will retire.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL HOROWITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); WOMEN (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); MICROFINANCE (66%); OUTSOURCING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



48 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Rail Use Urged In Rebuilding Ground Zero

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
City officials are again trying to reinvigorate the lightly used rail freight facilities on the Brooklyn waterfront. This time, they are hoping the rail line can play a part in rebuilding the World Trade Center site.
 The plan being studied at the city's Economic Development Corporation would bring freight by rail to barges off the Brooklyn waterfront in Sunset Park, and then float the freight across New York Harbor to Lower Manhattan. 
 This water-borne approach could reduce the cost of hauling construction material, like 56-foot steel girders, to the World Trade Center site, the officials say. 
 If the plan is realized, a large portion of the 43,000 tons of steel needed for the Freedom Tower, for example, could arrive by barge at the foot of Manhattan, and then be moved by truck up Broadway to ground zero.
 As a first step, the development corporation is seeking a rail operator to take over some of the facilities in Sunset Park and unite them under a new banner as the Brooklyn Waterfront Railroad.
 Major components include railyards at 65th Street and 51st Street and tracks along First Avenue between the two yards. Each yard has a float bridge that allows rail cars to move on and off barges. The float bridge at 65th Street, however, has not been used since it was installed in 1999.
 ''This site has, quite frankly, languished,'' said Alice Cheng, a vice president overseeing the project at the development corporation.
 But now, with fuel prices and other costs of trucking on the rise, major railroads have expressed interest in moving more freight across the harbor, Ms. Cheng said.
 Brooklyn and New Jersey currently have the means to load rail cars onto barges, but there is no landing site in Manhattan. 
 The development corporation has invited companies to describe ''how they would propose to float materials from 65th Street, Brooklyn, to Lower Manhattan,'' said Yonit Golub, a spokeswoman for the corporation. 
 But she added that the corporation was ''not actively involved in evaluating or developing any landing sites in Manhattan.''
 Much of the material that went into the World Trade Center in the 1960s arrived by water, but that was before Battery Park City was built along the riverfront across West Street.
 Only about 5,000 rail cars a year are currently barged between Brooklyn and Jersey City, down from more than 100,000 a year in the 1960s, Ms. Cheng said.
 Eastbound rail cars are filled with beer, rice, cooking oil, bricks and lumber, destined for stores, restaurants and building sites in the city and farther out on Long Island, said Mark H. Westerfield, acting president of the New York & Atlantic Railway, which carries freight on Long Island Rail Road tracks as far as the Hamptons.
 Most of the rail cars barged back to New Jersey carry debris from construction and demolition sites, Mr. Westerfield said. 
 He said that outgoing barge traffic rose steadily during the city's construction boom, but has leveled off in the past year.
 Some rail cars coming into Jersey City are currently loaded on barges and moved across the harbor to the 51st Street yard.
 Robert M. Gottheim, district director for Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, Democrat of Manhattan, said the region would be best served by attracting a major railroad, like Norfolk Southern or CSX, to operate the facilities on the Brooklyn waterfront. 
 Integrating those facilities with a big carrier could increase efficiency and lower the cost of getting freight across the Hudson, he said.
 Mr. Gottheim said, ''This is the time to have a much more robust float system.'' He estimated that freight traffic across the harbor could double or triple with an integrated operator.
 He added that Mr. Nadler had played a critical role in obtaining $17 million in federal money that was spent on the float bridge at 65th Street and that he would like to see it in operation. He said Mr. Nadler supports the city's plan for the use of Brooklyn rail facilities and does not see it as competition for the cross-harbor rail tunnel that he has long championed, but rather as an interim measure. 
 As for floating construction material to Lower Manhattan, Mr. Gottheim said he had heard discussion of that plan.
 ''In construction of the World Trade Center or any large construction project, you have things that are too big for the roads,'' he said. ''It would be easier to float it across and bring it up Broadway in the middle of the night.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (91%); RAIL FREIGHT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



49 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Bombs Kill 2 and Wound Top Polish Envoy in Baghdad

BYLINE: By PAUL von ZIELBAUER; Reporting was contributed by Sabrina Tavernise, Ali Fahim, Khalid al-Ansary and Johan Spanner.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Poland's ambassador to Iraq was wounded and two people were killed -- an Iraqi civilian and a member of the ambassador's security detail -- in what appeared to be a coordinated roadside bomb attack on Wednesday morning in downtown Baghdad, Polish and Iraqi officials said.
 The ambassador, Gen. Edward Pietrzyk, survived with burns to his head and hand, said Polish officials and witnesses at the scene of the attack. It occurred about 10 a.m. about 100 yards from the Polish Embassy compound in the upscale Karada section of eastern Baghdad, outside the fortified Green Zone. 
 About 900 Polish troops are working in Iraq, mostly to train Iraqi security forces. The Polish government extended the military mission here until the end of this year but has not announced a definite withdrawal date. 
 Robert Szaniawski, a spokesman for the Polish Foreign Ministry, said the ambassador was in stable condition. The Associated Press quoted the Polish deputy ambassador, Waldemar Figaj, as saying General Pietrzyk was ''going to be fine'' after treatment for burns covering 20 percent of his body and would return to Poland later Wednesday.
 Mr. Szaniawski, in a telephone interview from Warsaw, said that the ambassador's driver, Bartosz Orzechowski, had been killed by the blast. ''Almost all of his body was burned; there was no way he could survive,'' he said. 
 Four other Poles assigned to the ambassador's security detail were slightly injured, Mr. Szaniawski added. Several Iraqi bystanders were also injured; the identity of the Iraqi person killed in the attack was unclear. 
 Separately, in a troubling development for the American military's effort to cooperate with Sunni tribes, Iraq's largest Shiite political bloc has thrown its weight against the new American practice of using local sheiks to increase the number of Sunni police officers, stating in clear, sharp language that Sunnis from militant backgrounds should not be allowed into the police forces. 
 The United Iraqi Alliance, the largest political bloc in Parliament and a group whose members control the government, said that the American military's recruiting of Sunnis in areas in and around the capital amounted to empowering men with histories of militancy, and must be stopped ''before it's too late.''
 ''The American forces armed the terrorist groups, which were the reason for the bad security situation,'' said the statement, dated Sept. 30. ''We refuse and denounce giving protection to those terrorists who committed hideous crimes against the Iraqi people and allowing them to be responsible for security.''
 The statement was the first broad public criticism by the country's most powerful Shiite group of the American effort to change the course of the war by setting local Sunni tribes against Al Qaeda of Mesopotamia, a homegrown extremist group that American intelligence agencies say is led by foreigners. 
 The recruitment effort has been largely successful in Anbar, a vast desert province in western Iraq that is almost exclusively Sunni, and senior Iraqi officials, including Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, have proudly showcased the cooperation. 
 But now the military is beginning to recruit Sunnis in the capital, the center of political and economic power and a city that contains nearly a quarter of Iraq population, a development that is deeply upsetting to Shiites, who fear that supporting Sunnis with militant pasts will allow the war to spread and will threaten the power balance in Baghdad that has come to favor Shiites. 
 Mr. Maliki offered an opposing opinion on Wednesday, saying in a news conference that the government had control over the recruitment process, and that ''there is no delivery of arms beyond the control of the state.''
 After the bombing attack near the Polish Embassy compound, Iraqi and American officials said the ambassador and others were evacuated to a combat hospital in the Green Zone by helicopters operated by Blackwater USA, the private military contractor under scrutiny for killing civilians in an episode last month. Blackwater provides security to State Department officials in Baghdad. 
 Accounts from several witnesses to the attack and its immediate aftermath suggest that two or three roadside bombs detonated within fractions of a second of each other as three white sport utility vehicles, one carrying the Polish ambassador, emerged from the embassy compound. 
 Bombs destroyed two of the three vehicles, leaving only mangled husks of metal. The bomb that struck the ambassador's vehicle, though, seemed to bear hallmarks of the particularly deadly type of roadside bomb known as an explosively formed penetrator, which sends a molten shot of copper into vehicles, incinerating it and its occupants. The American military has said these weapons come from Iran. 
 The ambassador's vehicle, for example, had a hole blasted in the armored glass of the driver's side window, leaving the window behind it intact, a pattern of destruction inconsistent with roadside bombs that use artillery shells or other types of metal fragments to inflict casualties. 
 Ahmed Riadh Abed, who was standing near the ambassador's home when the attack occurred, said the bombing unleashed a 15-foot-high fireball. ''A Polish P.S.D., dressed in a military uniform and fully equipped, ran to me and he was bleeding from his mouth, and there was big cut on his cheek.'' P.S.D. stands for personal security detail, a phrase used to describe armed security guards in Iraq. 
 Guards hustled General Pietrzyk, a former commander of ground forces in Poland who became ambassador to Iraq in April, to a nearby home, where they bandaged his head and hands, witnesses said. A helicopter then flew him and others, including the mortally wounded Polish guard, to a hospital. 
 How the roadside bombs could have been planted undetected, so close to the embassy compound and only about 130 yards from an Iraqi Army checkpoint, also raised questions on Wednesday. 
 In response to the bombing, the Polish security guards fired their weapons, wounding a taxi driver, said a witness, Specialist Sadiq Saber of the Iraqi Army. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: General Pietrzyk's three-vehicle convoy was struck by two or three roadside bombs detonated outside the Polish Embassy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHAN SPANNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gen. Edward Pietrzyk, center, Poland's ambassador to Iraq, was evacuated from the scene of a bombing yesterday in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CEERWAN AZIZ/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); BURN INJURIES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MILITARY RECRUITING (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); EYEWITNESSES (72%); WOUND CARE (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); AL-QAEDA (62%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



50 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Chamberlain Offers His Tribe A Wisp of Hope

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS. 
E-mail: selenasports@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WINNEBAGO, Neb.
 They sell dream catchers here. In a brick gift store below a hill filled with swirled haystacks that resemble Cinnabons, a shelf holds a palm-sized wooden rim with feathers and beads surrounding a net.
 It is a fear filter, of sorts, designed to trap nightmares so the sweetest images can slip on through, so joyful thoughts can reach pillows. 
 In his flat-billed Yankees cap that always seems a half size too big, with an arm already rated somewhere between fable and holy, Joba Chamberlain has all but passed through a dream catcher. In essence, he is a dream come true for American Indians who have been forever marginalized by cultural fatalism and outside bias, forever freighted by historic atrocities and benign neglect. 
 To watch Chamberlain is to spy on hope, to witness a revolution in belief among his Winnebago tribe. 
 ''I think he shows that everyone can do it -- even if you're from around here,'' said Aaron Lapointe, 16, a high school sophomore on the reservation. ''It's good just to see that he is a Native American, that he is the same as me.''
 Same, not better. Same, not separate. That is an important distinction for many tribes long ambivalent about fame in a white man's world, long mistrustful of an America that has mistreated them. 
 ''One of the things we try to instill in the kids around here is to quit trying to play the big victim all the time,'' said Jerome Lapointe, Aaron's uncle and the managing editor of The Winnebago Indian News. ''We have to get over that.''
 In many ways, they have. The Winnebago don't view Chamberlain as an aberration. With the help of satellite dishes that look like buttons on every home in this six-block town, they see him as a trend in optimism every time his image flashes on ''SportsCenter.'' 
 ''I think Joba symbolizes possibility,'' said Brian Chamberlain, Joba's cousin, who lives and works on the reservation. ''Here, you have successful people who are taking care of their daily lives. Then you have others who are trapped in addictions, and the gap between them is widening, but as a whole, we as a tribe, we are progressing.''
 Progress is the cellphone tower built last year among the cornfields that means fewer trips to the Missouri River to pick up a signal. Progress is a new Dollar General Store to provide another shopping destination outside of the usual hub: a corrugated steel building on the highway that multitasks as a gas station, grocery store, cafe and casino.
 Where else can you purchase pizza, burgers, soap and luck?
 It's not perfect, not with a poverty rate double the national average. All issues aren't solved, not when the tribal casinos have taken hits from competition in Iowa. But the economy is slowly churning. Ideas are all the rage. Education is a hotter topic for children. Joba fits right into the equation.
 ''He represents another chance, another angle at our kids getting an education,'' Jerome Lapointe said. 
 Joba was not born on the rez like his father, Harlan, but he is of the rez as a member of the Winnebago. There are a few more Yankees caps, a few more jerseys worn on playgrounds these days. But there are no signs of the Joba mania that has swept Manhattan. No Book of Joba banners hanging over a billboard advertising a powwow. No Joba the Heat posters next to the sketches of proud chiefs lining the public school walls.
 Joba is celebrated in more subtle ways. Earlier this week, the tribal council held elections. In the final tally, Joba picked up two votes -- and, no, he wasn't running for office.
 What Joba means to the Winnebago is obvious. His visibility is important to non-Indians, too. With every pitch, he peels back the stereotypes of the American Indian athlete as problematic, as fearful of success, as self-loathing. 
 ''It seems like the reservation is their comfort zone more than it would be for an inner-city kid,'' the former Montana State basketball coach Mick Durham told me a few years ago. ''To me, I just think they get the government checks, and they stay. I don't know. I guess it's the way they're raised.''
 Durham has never been alone in this unsettling view. College coaches routinely skip talented rez athletes when looking for scholarship material. Only three-tenths of one percent of all college scholarships in Division I, II and III are awarded to American Indians, according to N.C.A.A. records compiled for 2004-5.
 Joba can't transform the numbers. That's not his burden. 
 ''Joba just has to be Joba,'' Brian Chamberlain said. ''That's enough.''
 It's enough to defy negativity with his every jog to the mound. It's enough to pass through a dream catcher.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Winnebago sculpture garden includes a statue that represents Joba Chamberlain's Buffalo Clan, left. Chamberlain is seen as a positive influence by his tribe in Nebraska. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF ZELEVANSKY/REUTERS
CHRIS MACHIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. D1)
 A cousin of Joba Chamberlain, Brian Chamberlain, who lives on the reservation, said, ''I think Joba symbolizes possibility.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS MACHIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); POOR POPULATION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); POVERTY RATES (50%)

COMPANY: DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

TICKER: DG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (51%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



51 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Radiohead Fans, Guided by Conscience (and Budget)

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
''How much are you going to pay?''
 For three days that has been the question on the lips -- and at the fingertips -- of Radiohead fans. After hours of blog and water cooler arguments, some New Yorkers yesterday were finally able to name their price to preorder the band's new album, ''In Rainbows.'' At a Manhattan indie record label, one employee decided to pay 14 cents, and another gave $5, said a colleague, Sarah Fields. And Ms. Fields, who works in digital marketing at the label, decided to charge herself $9. 
 ''Radiohead's been my favorite band since I was 13 years old,'' Ms. Fields, 26, said on Tuesday night outside Webster Hall, where she had gone for a concert. ''I felt, like, an honor code with them.'' 
 Since Sunday, when this British rock band announced that it would independently release its first studio album since 2003 as a pay-what-you-wish download on Oct. 10, there has been a perfect storm of interest among fans and industry watchers. Online and in record stores, clubs, bars and label and public relations offices, the announcement was hotly debated, a de facto referendum on what to do about illegal file-sharing and the declining music business, spurred by one of rock's most respected and forward-looking bands. 
 The consensus online and in the media seemed to be that the band's maneuver was a game-changing moment in the industry -- or, as one commenter on the music blog Stereogum.com put it, ''This is absolutely the coolest thing any band has ever done.''
 In fact, Radiohead's move is as much an experiment in consumer behavior and the socially acceptable cost of art as it is a way to distribute records. Each donation is a sort of commentary: on the nature of fandom and band loyalty, on the indier-than-thou current rock scene, and on the worth of buying -- not sampling or stealing -- new music.
 ''It could change the feelings about free downloading,'' said George Loewenstein, a professor of economics and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University, in Pittsburgh. ''If the band is willing to trust you to pay what's fair, all of a sudden, for the people who have been saying it's not stealing to download the song for free, it's much more difficult to rationalize that. I think it may be a brilliant move in that dimension.''
 Mr. Loewenstein, whose specialty is behavioral economics and who has studied the relationship between emotions and financial decision-making, added: ''It's almost like supporting a sports team or donating to a political candidate. You're selling to the world how much you like them by how much you pay.'' Most important, he said, ''how much you are willing to pay signals something to yourself about who you are: are you exploitative? Are you a tightwad?''
 Sarah Lewitinn, 27, a co-founder of the record label Stolen Transmission and a blogger known as Ultragrrrl, was torn. ''The fan in me wants to pay $80, but the person that's paying rent wants to pay $8,'' Ms. Lewitinn, a Radiohead devotee, said.
 Nathan Kaufman, 25, another Radiohead megafan, said of the plan, ''I got geeked about it immediately.'' Radiohead posters once covered his college dorm room, and he owns five of the band's albums, though, he said, he hadn't paid for any.
 But ''In Rainbows'' will be different. ''I would probably pay, depending on the last paycheck, $5 to $8,'' he said on Tuesday night, as he and some friends stood outside the Lower East Side club Cake Shop. But when the rest of his group moved inside, Mr. Kaufman, an actor, admitted that he would be more likely to pony up about $2. ''I wouldn't take it for free,'' he said. ''It's symbolic.'' 
 Like Mr. Kaufman, who said his donation would be the equivalent of ''cheering loud at their concerts,'' many other fans seemed to want to reward Radiohead -- either for its artistry or its audacity. On Tuesday a representative of the band announced that most people were not only paying, they were also springing for a pricey box set, which includes a second CD, a vinyl LP and a booklet of artwork, for the fixed price of $:40, or about $82, including shipping. (Exact sales figures are not yet available.) 
 Of course, not everyone is feeling so generous. On Tuesday Adam Baruchowitz, 34, a magazine business director, was browsing at Other Music, the downtown Manhattan record store. He said he would pay only $5, partly because he believed that Radiohead already had plenty of money. And Dan Hougland, the store's floor manager, noted that the band's sliding-scale plan isn't without precedent. He compared the band to Wilco, which after being dropped by its label in 2001, released the album ''Yankee Hotel Foxtrot'' free online.
 ''I thought this was the British twist: 'How much are we worth to you?''' Mr. Hougland said.
 Though some musicians have already begun to ponder a future of alternative payment plans, experts inside and out of the music industry say they do not believe that Radiohead's model can work for everyone. For one thing, only established acts with an extremely dedicated fan base could prosper that way, Ms. Lewitinn said. For another, the novelty would wear off quickly.
 ''It's cheap to signal what a great person you are by paying $5 for a download,'' Mr. Loewenstein said. ''But suppose there are 50 albums you want, and each of them are asking you, 'How much do you want to pay?' Then it's gets more expensive to signal to yourself how wonderful you are.'' 
 For now, though, fans seem to be content to show their approval. As Ms. Fields said, ''It's like the best marketing scheme in the world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Radiohead is offering downloads of its new CD. Cost? Up to you. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RADIOHEAD.COM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC (89%); BUDGETS (84%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); POP & ROCK (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); RECORD RELEASES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); MUSIC STORES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); REFERENDUMS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



52 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Bear Stearns and Credit Suisse Announce More Layoffs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Bear Stearns said yesterday it was laying off 310 workers and fusing its two mortgage businesses, after turmoil in the home loan industry contributed to a drastic slide in the investment bank's profit this summer. 
 The news came hours after Credit Suisse said problems in the mortgage market would linger as long as 18 months. It also announced 170 layoffs in its investment banking unit, on top of the 150 layoffs announced last week in New York and London, mainly from its mortgage-backed securities unit.
 Bear Stearns said it was integrating its Bear Stearns Residential Mortgage and Encore Credit divisions into a single subsidiary. The new unit will soon offer loans eligible to be purchased by government-sponsored entities. Such loans are considered safer than most.
 Stung by decaying credit quality, investors soured on many types of mortgage debt this summer. Selling home loans and other investments backed by mortgage debt became much harder this year, pinching a key source of profit on Wall Street. More than 50 lenders have gone out of business in 2007 because they were unable to sell their mortgage debt or borrow money.
 Bear Stearns, the investment bank most heavily exposed to the home loan market, took a $200 million loss on two hedge funds established to bet on mortgage debt. Those funds are now bankrupt and the subject of litigation.
 The flight from risky mortgage debt also led to an 88 percent decline in revenue from Bear Stearns's biggest business -- fixed income -- in the fiscal third quarter.
 Bear Stearns has now laid off two-fifths of the employees in its mortgage businesses this year, the company said. The layoffs yesterday represent 2 percent of its work force.
 The move came a day after Morgan Stanley announced it would lay off 600 workers and integrate its mortgage businesses into a single unit. Lehman Brothers closed its BNC Mortgage subsidiary last month. It has laid off more than 2,000 employees in mortgages.
 Shares of Bear Stearns fell 29 cents to close at $128.28. The stock is down more than 20 percent for the year, though it has recovered significantly since dipping below $100 in August for the first time since 2005.
 Bear Stearns executives prompted a sell-off in the stock market in August when, in a conference call intended to assuage investors, they compared the mortgage crisis to the stock market crash of 1987 and the bursting of the tech bubble.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); LITIGATION (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (92%); CS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



53 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Growth Slows in Services, But a Recession Is Doubted

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The shriveled housing market was a drag on American business activity last month, with service industries slowing but still showing some growth.
 The Institute for Supply Management, a business trade and research group, reported yesterday that its services index registered 54.8 in September. That was down from 55.8 in August and below the 12-month high of 60.7 reached in June, but above 50 -- the threshold between expansion and contraction. 
 The service sector has not had a month of contraction in four and a half years, according to the institute's monthly reports.
 Mark Vitner, a Wachovia economist, commented: ''I really think it throws some cold water on the notion that the economy is going to fall out of bed. None of the numbers we've seen on the economy point to recession. It points to moderate economic growth.''
 The index, now at its lowest point since March, was in line with economists' estimates.
 The service sector makes up a majority of American economic activity, and on Monday the institute reported slower growth in manufacturing. With both sides of the economy thus losing some momentum, some contend, the Federal Reserve may be inclined to lower interest rates further.
 On Sept. 18, the Fed reduced benchmark rates by half a percentage point. It meets again at the end of October to decide whether to make borrowing cheaper and, perhaps, stoke spending.
 Within the service-sector report were items that might give the Fed pause: expansion in employment and accelerating prices -- signs that price increases might not be easing.
 The employment index for September registered 52.7, up from 47.9 in August. Tomorrow, the Labor Department will report on September employment over all.
 The Institute for Supply Management's prices index rose to 66.1 last month from 58.6. In August, prices for commodities like oil, metals and grains declined amid a broad sell-off in the financial markets, and in September they bounced back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



54 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1715 words

HEADLINE: When the Garden Designs the House

BYLINE: BY CHRISTOPHER MASON

 BODY:
EAST HAMPTON, N.Y.
 ELEVEN years ago, when Christopher H. Browne bought an 18-acre oceanfront estate on Further Lane in East Hampton, he thought he knew what he wanted to do with it. A gardening aficionado, he planned to tear down the existing 1950s house on the dunes and build an English country house in the center of the property, surrounded by formal English gardens and only remotely connected to the sea.
 But largely because of an arrangement he had made with the property's previous owner, by which she could stay in the house for several more summers, he began by focusing his energies on the garden. As a result, the house that he will finally start building this spring -- a glazed box on the site of the original house that he designed with Andrew Gordon, a modernist architect and his partner of eight years -- has been shaped by the surrounding 18 acres to a degree he never imagined. 
 Partly by chance, Mr. Browne, 60, a managing director of the Tweedy, Browne Company, a New York investment firm, stumbled on an approach to construction that has been advocated for the past decade by prominent landscape architects up and down the East Coast, including Patrick Chasse in Somerville, Mass.; Douglas Reed of Reed Hilderbrand Associates in Watertown, Mass.; and Thomas Woltz, a partner in Nelson Byrd Woltz Landscape Architects in Charlottesville, Va. All argue strongly for spending a lot of time with the land that will surround a house before building it. 
 ''By understanding the natural dynamic of a site, you can create more potent and meaningful architecture,'' said Mr. Woltz, who holds master's degrees in architecture and landscape architecture from the University of Virginia, where he teaches a course called ''Sites and Systems'' that emphasizes the importance of assessing a site's prevailing winds, geological conditions, plant communities and soil qualities, among other conditions. ''The goal is to inspire architecture that's inextricably linked to the land,'' he added. 
 While Mr. Browne and Mr. Gordon's gradualism was dictated in part by necessity, both came to appreciate its value. 
 ''A lot of people don't get it. They say, why haven't you started building yet?'' said Mr. Gordon, 46, of the couple's East Hampton friends. ''There's nothing worse than when people tear down the trees and plunk down a house, put in a few plants and call it a day.'' 
 ''We're trying to focus on making the house part of the land,'' he said.
 Mr. Browne, who grew up gardening in New Jersey -- ''My mother was an avid gardener, and she made all of her boys help her,'' he said -- already had some experience with the garden-first approach. He bought his last East Hampton property, eight acres on Middle Lane, in 1990, and spent six years creating the garden there while he remained in a house on another property two miles away. ''By the time I'd built the house on Middle Lane, it was sitting in a mature landscape,'' he said. 
 That was in 1997, a few months after he had bought the beachfront property for $13 million and two years before he met Mr. Gordon through mutual friends. Within a few months of their meeting, the two were talking constantly about how the new property should be altered. 
 Shortly after they met, Mr. Browne took a tour of National Trust estates in England, organized by Sotheby's. ''While Chris was on that trip, he sent me three letters with sketches of gardens that interested him,'' Mr. Gordon said, ''and that began our dialogue about the dynamics of innovative gardens and houses.'' 
 Mr. Browne discussed with Mr. Gordon the idea of cultivating an intimate garden around their future house, while allowing the rest of the property to feel like parkland. ''And that's what we've tried to achieve,'' Mr. Gordon said. Other romantic ideas had to be scrapped, like keeping free-range chickens on an island in a pond to provide fresh eggs for breakfast. ''We discovered that foxes can swim,'' Mr. Gordon said.
 In the spring of 2000, before making any major decisions, the couple built a temporary 35-foot-tall observation platform in the middle of the property to help them formulate their ideas for the overall design. From this elevated perch, Mr. Browne came to agree with Mr. Gordon that in spite of the existing house's limited views of their future garden to the north -- its living room looked out onto an interior courtyard -- its location had the potential to offer the best views in all directions. 
 They realized that they wanted a house that would ''connect the ocean with the garden to the north,'' Mr. Browne said, and decided to abandon his plan of building in the center of the property. Instead, the new house would rise on the footprint of the existing one, but with soil added to make the elevation slightly higher. 
 ''From spending time in the existing house, we realized how much we enjoyed the informality of a one-story house,'' said Mr. Gordon, who is president of Andrew Gordon Inc. ''We decided to raise it by a few feet to take advantage of the view.''
 The couple decided to create a pond in the center of the property that would welcome visitors. ''We wanted the first impression to be of the pond and the garden, not the house,'' Mr. Gordon said. They staked out informal pathways to give guests different ways to explore the garden. ''In the past, some of my best conversations with friends occurred while walking and talking by water,'' he added. ''I wanted a garden that paved the way for discussion.''
 From the beginning, they agreed that they wanted waterlily ponds, a wildflower meadow, an apple orchard and thousands of specimen trees. ''Interesting trees provide a romantic sense of history,'' Mr. Gordon said, ''and water emphasizes change and reflects light more profoundly than anything else.''
 The first major step, which Mr. Browne had taken in 1998 while contemplating his original plan, was to plant an apple orchard near the road and to move hundreds of cedar trees to the eastern and western edges of the property. The clearing provided eight acres to create the 500-foot-long waterlily pond and the smaller lotus pond that now dominate the garden. Lined with iris, lilies and native grasses, they have become a natural habitat for dragonflies, hummingbirds, frogs and muskrats. (Imported wildlife hasn't fared so well: They have given up stocking the ponds with exotic fish, Mr. Browne said, explaining, ''It's disheartening to watch herons pick up a $70 lunch.'')
 The pond water is filtered organically through a series of electrical pumps around the perimeter of each pond that pass through beds of water hyacinths that absorb the sediment. ''It's a natural way to avoid chemicals,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''If you're swimming, the water tastes sweet.''
 To adorn the ponds, which were dug in 2002, Mr. Gordon designed a pair of curved wooden jetties and an arcing bridge to a little island in the waterlily pond. During their frequent walks around the garden in the months that followed, the couple were fascinated by the flickering play of light on the underside of the bridge. 
 Now, hoping to recreate that dappled-light effect inside the future house, Mr. Gordon has designed three rectangular reflecting pools -- 16 feet by 80 feet, 20 by 65 feet and 20 by 24 feet -- all jutting out perpendicular to the house and abutting the glass walls of the living room. Blue and purple waterlilies will be cultivated in the pools to echo those in the ponds downhill from the house. 
 ''The idea is to take the sense of water and light into the house,'' Mr. Gordon said, ''with a soft movement that flickers through the house as the light bounces off the ceiling,'' even at night, when the pools will be illuminated. 
 ''The combination of the wind and the movement of water keeps your eye entertained,'' he added. ''You don't need loud music.''
 The one-story, 9,000-square-foot house they are planning will have four bedrooms and two guest suites. It will be slightly smaller than the existing structure, and not a big house ''by East Hampton standards'' Mr. Browne said, seemingly proud of his economy. (''We don't need 8 bedrooms and 12 bathrooms like some people out here,'' he said.) Its exterior will be large panels of glass between the lean horizontal planes of floor and ceiling in dark stucco, made to recede into the landscape. 
 The hub of the house will be a large rectangular living room with glass walls and doors facing the Atlantic to the south and the garden to the north. 
 They have planned as many precautions as they can to protect the landscape and the plants from the inevitable ravages of construction. ''It's been a real advantage to camp out'' in the existing house for three years, Mr. Browne said, reflecting on all the time spent shaping and living with the landscape. 
 If he had rushed ahead with his original plans, he added, he would have missed out on the possibilities of bringing together garden and sea, and the thrill of living next to the ocean, a thrill the couple experienced their first night in the house. ''There was a magnificent lightning storm,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''Lightning was dancing off the ocean.'' 
 Still, a creative process that's constantly in flux ''takes a lot of patience,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''As an architect, I'm used to working to a master plan where everything's plotted. Some of my projects are finished in five months. This is the reverse. It's evolving.
 ''We draw up plans, then get a surveyor to plot it out with flags, then we move the flags around,'' Mr. Gordon went on. A nursery then ''brings in hundreds of trees and forklifts move them around,'' he added. ''It would have been more economical to buy the nursery.'' 
 ''It's a long process,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''But it lets us share the planning together, and ideas pop into Chris's head.'' 
 Mr. Browne, meanwhile, clearly revels in the process. ''Gardening is a bit like rearranging furniture,'' he said. ''You can make dramatic changes every year by picking things up and moving them. It's not static like the walls of a house are.''
 Does he ever lament the 11-year delay in building his dream house? ''Not at all,'' Mr. Browne said. ''I really enjoy the process of discovery and brainstorming. Without all that time, it wouldn't have been as much fun.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FIRST THINGS FIRST: Christopher H. Browne and Andrew Gordon spent years on landscaping before planning a house. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC STRIFFLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F1)
THE HOME AQUATIC: Andrew Gordon and Christopher H. Browne, center left and right, sit on the bridge in their garden. Reflections on the underside of the bridge, top, and waterlilies in the pond, center right, inspired Mr. Gordon's designs for their future house, right
above, an overview of the garden. (PHOTOGRAPHS (ABOVE AND BELOW CENTER AND RIGHT) BY ERIC STRIFFLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); GARDENING (90%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (90%)

COMPANY: TWEEDY BROWNE CO (69%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER H BROWNE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



55 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Split on Ways to Ease Housing Crisis

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Democratic leaders in Congress remain divided about how to address the growing crisis in housing and home foreclosures involving borrowers who took out subprime mortgages.
 At a news conference on Wednesday, House and Senate Democrats outlined a plan to help low- and middle-income families keep their homes. 
 But they focused on only two fairly narrow proposals: providing more money to groups that help homeowners renegotiate their loans; and temporarily allowing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the huge government-sponsored mortgage financiers, to hold more mortgages in their own investment portfolios. 
 ''The subprime crisis demands action, and we are working to protect families who have lost their home or are in danger of foreclosure,'' the House speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, said. 
 While the House has already passed several bills aimed at the mortgage problem, Senate Democrats have been bogged down by disagreements and other difficulties in lining up enough votes to block any Republican filibuster.
 White House officials said President Bush put forward a plan in August to expand the Federal Housing Administration's mortgage insurance program and proposed a way to strengthen the regulation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 ''We don't see the need for more press conferences,'' a spokesman for Mr. Bush, Tony Fratto, said. ''We see the need for them to take advantage of the opportunities before them.''
 Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Banking Committee, said he agreed with the White House that Congress needed to approve tougher regulatory oversight for the two government-sponsored companies, which have been embroiled in accounting scandals.
 Senate Democrats, though, fear that they cannot muster the needed 60 votes to pass a regulatory bill this year.
 To demonstrate Democratic Party unity on the issue, Ms. Pelosi called for action alongside Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, and other top Democrats from both chambers.
 The lawmakers said little about a long list of other Democratic proposals, some of which have already passed the House and others that are moving through committees. 
 Instead, they called on Mr. Bush to name a special adviser who would try to persuade mortgage lenders and loan-servicing companies to modify the terms of subprime loans, which will carry interest rates as high as 12 or 13 percent. 
 The lawmakers made no mention of a bill, strongly supported by senior House Democrats, that would put more pressure on mortgage lenders to negotiate with troubled borrowers.
 The bill, which will come up Thursday before a House Judiciary subcommittee, would allow bankruptcy court judges to change the terms of a mortgage for subprime borrowers.
 Supporters of the measure say that bankruptcy judges are often the only people in a position to modify mortgages that have been bundled into complex securities and may be owned by investors anywhere in the world. 
 Industry analysts estimate that as many as two million borrowers with subprime mortgages have teaser rates that are likely to rise steeply as their those rates expire in the next 18 months. 
 Mortgage lenders, a powerful lobbying force in Washington, are adamantly opposed to the bankruptcy measure, saying it will frighten investors and aggravate the credit crisis.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of his chamber's banking committee, has said that much of the crisis facing subprime mortgage borrowers can be addressed with administrative action. 
 Anticipating filibuster problems, Mr. Dodd has been reluctant to take up legislation that would impose a new, independent regulator over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 Administration officials have insisted on such a regulator before it will agree to let the two mortgage finance companies buy up more mortgages for their own accounts, and the House has already passed a bill creating the regulator.
 Democrats want to let Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac temporarily increase their holdings by 10 percent, or about $150 billion. The companies would be required to use 85 percent of that money to help people convert expensive subprime loans into traditional fixed-rate loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICS (79%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FAMILY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); ACCOUNTING (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); JUDGES (60%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%); HARRY REID (59%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



56 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: North Koreans in Nuclear Pact

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Steven Lee Myers and Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
North Korea has agreed to disable all of its nuclear facilities by the end of the year, in a move that the Bush administration hailed as a diplomatic victory that could serve as a model for how to deal with Iran, which has defied American efforts to rein in its nuclear ambitions.
 The North Korea agreement, announced in Beijing on Wednesday, sets out the first specific timetable for the North to disclose all its nuclear programs and disable all facilities in return for 950,000 metric tons of fuel oil or its equivalent in economic aid. 
 The accord is the second stage of a six-nation pact reached in February, one that has continued to draw sharp criticism from conservatives who complain that the United States is rewarding North Korea for its test of a nuclear device last October. The agreement has not yet resolved the contentious question of when North Korea will give up its nuclear weapons.
 The agreement calls on the United States to ''begin the process of removing'' North Korea from a United States terrorism list ''in parallel'' with the North's actions. Conservative critics said the United States should not take North Korea off the terrorism list until it gave up all its nuclear weapons, and argued that the pact was far too conciliatory toward a nuclear power suspected of having ties to international terrorism.
 But the Bush administration has been eager to show diplomatic progress, and President Bush suggested that the deal should serve as an example to Iran, which has refused to suspend its uranium enrichment program. During a town hall meeting on Wednesday in Lancaster, Pa., Mr. Bush told a questioner that he might hold direct talks with Iran if it first froze enrichment of uranium.
 ''If your question is, 'Will you ever sit down with them,' we've proven we would with North Korea, and the answer is, 'Yeah, just so long as we can achieve something, so long as we are able to get our objective,''' Mr. Bush said.
 John R. Bolton, the administration's former ambassador to the United Nations, said the White House violated the original purpose of the diplomatic talks by agreeing to negotiate side agreements with North Korea about taking it off both the terrorism list and a second list of ''enemy'' nations forbidden from trading with the United States. 
 ''If they come off either or both lists, without any final verification of their performance on the nuclear issue, I think the president will have embarrassed his administration in history,'' Mr. Bolton said. 
 Critics of the White House, including some Democrats, note that the February accord bears a strong resemblance to the 1994 agreement between North Korea and the Clinton administration, one that Bush administration officials denounced in the past as a giveaway, and which fell apart in 2002.
 Conservatives are also angry that the United States went ahead with the agreement despite a recent Israeli airstrike in Syria that Israeli officials have said was directed at nuclear material supplied by North Korea. During meetings this past weekend, Christopher R. Hill, the chief United States negotiator, told North Korea that one of the things it must disclose were details of whatever nuclear material it had been supplying to Syria, two senior Bush administration officials said.
 The officials, who asked that their names not be used because they were not authorized to speak publicly on the issue, said that North Korean officials denied giving Syria any assistance. 
 ''We did not achieve clarity on this issue, but that does not mean we do not intend to keep trying,'' one of the officials said. ''We aren't operating on faith.''
 On Monday, the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, acknowledged for the first time that the Israeli incursion had been an attack, but said the target had been an empty warehouse. ''They bombed a building, a construction, it's related to the military but it's not used,'' Mr. Assad told the British Broadcasting Corporation. 
 Under the agreement reached in February, North Korea has shut down its Yongbyon nuclear plant, which, according to American intelligence estimates, has produced enough plutonium for as many as a half-dozen bombs.
 This week's agreement calls on the North to disable Yongbyon by the end of the year. Administration officials said they hoped that by disabling the facility, they would avoid a repeat of 2002, when North Korea shut down Yongbyon and then restarted the plant after talks broke down.
 ''They were able to get the reactor up and running in two months,'' a State Department official said. ''By focusing on disablement, the hope is that the next interim measure is to do things to it so it can't readily be turned back on.''
 The agreement on Wednesday is part of a pact among North Korea, China, Russia, South Korea, Japan and the United States -- the so-called six parties that have been wrangling to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula. 
 Mr. Hill, the chief American negotiator, said the pact also called for the United States to give North Korea assistance with its energy sector. State Department officials said the first $25 million, equivalent to 50,000 tons of fuel aid, would be making its way to North Korea shortly. 
 Mr. Hill said North Korea did not have enough room in its ports or oil depots to put up all of the fuel oil it had been promised, which was part of the reason the countries would also give the North equivalent economic aid to help to build and improve energy plants and storage depots. 
 The official joint statement is carefully worded on how or when North Korea will be taken off the terrorism list, reflecting the political delicacy, particularly in the United States, of the matter. 
 In Washington, Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said North Korea should remain on the list. 
 ''In 2005, we wrote a law specifically aimed at closing the door on the possibility of civilian nuclear cooperation between the U.S. and North Korea,'' Mr. Markey said in a statement.
 ''Given North Korea's dangerous record of developing nuclear weapons, exporting advanced missile technology, engaging in international criminal activity, and engaging in international terrorism, that prohibition is just as necessary today as it was two years ago when the president signed it into law.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher R. Hill, the chief United States negotiator, shown in Beijing on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY WONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007



57 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Stocks & Bonds: Awaiting Data, Market Drifts Downward

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street extended its pullback yesterday as investors, retrenching from an optimistic stance early in the week, waited to see how well corporate earnings and the job market have held up in an uneven economy.
 The market showed little conviction for a second day as economic readings offered few surprises and as investors looked for signs -- possibly from the September employment report due tomorrow -- of whether the market's rebound from its summer lows has been warranted.
 Wall Street had little reaction to a report that the service sector showed a decline last month. 
 Home builder stocks rose amid a sense among some analysts that the housing market might have hit bottom. Semiconductor shares mostly lost ground on concerns about pricing pressures.
 ''There are a lot of crosscurrents,'' said George Shipp, chief investment officer at the investment adviser Scott & Stringfellow in Richmond, Va. ''The general pattern is that the U.S. economy is slowing.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 79.26 points, or 0.56 percent, to 13,968.05. The Dow had moved back above 14,000 on Monday after two and a half months below that level amid concerns about soured mortgages, tighter access to credit and the housing market slump. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 7.04 points, or 0.46 percent, to 1,539.59, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 17.68 points, or 0.64 percent, to 2,729.43. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 5.82 points, or 0.70 percent, to 826.15.
 Bond prices slipped. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite to its price, rose to 4.56 percent, from 4.52 percent on Tuesday. The 10-year note's price fell 9/32, to 101 16/32.
 Oil prices fell, settling down 11 cents at $79.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after the government reported an unexpected increase in crude oil inventories. 
 The Institute for Supply Management reported that the service sector expanded at a slower pace in September than in August. A weaker report could have ignited investor enthusiasm for another rate cut by the Federal Reserve, which lowered its benchmark lending rate last month by a larger-than-expected half percentage point.
 Also, the Mortgage Bankers Association said mortgage application volume fell 2.7 percent in the week that ended Sept. 28. 
 Home builder stocks rose as investors bet that the sector would show improvement. Lennar rose $1.10, or 4.5 percent, to $25.82, while Pulte Homes rose 46 cents, or 3 percent, to $15.96.
 Chip stocks slid amid unease over pricing competition. Micron Technology fell $1.05, or 8.9 percent, to $10.74 after issuing a forecast that disappointed Wall Street. Intel fell 57 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $25.81, and was one of the biggest decliners among the 30 Dow industrial stocks.
 Deutsche Bank said it would book charges totaling about $3.1 billion in the third quarter to reflect losses on loans amid turmoil in the mortgage market. The bank's forecast follows warnings on results from Citigroup and UBS of Switzerland on Monday. Deutsche Bank rose $1.70, to $134.07, while Citigroup rose 3 cents, to $47.89, and UBS rose 37 cents, to $56.98.
 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by about five to three on the New York Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume came to 3.06 billion shares, down from 3.11 billion shares on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%); SEMICONDUCTORS (54%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); PULTEGROUP INC (50%); INTEL CORP (50%)

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (56%); PHM (NYSE) (50%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (71%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



58 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Obama's Their Man

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 While Gail Collins's column neatly captures the excitement Barack Obama raised in a huge and diverse crowd in Washington Square Park (''Never Trust Anybody Over 49,'' column, Sept. 29), she misses the very good reasons his message resonates so strongly with the younger generations. 
 Though the Clinton campaign runs on nostalgia for her husband's years in the White House, those years were less than golden for those of us coming of age then. 
 We saw the cost of our education skyrocket, and with it our indebtedness. Our chances of getting health insurance dwindled, as did our chances of affording our own homes without resorting to risky loans. The tech bubble burst, and partisan rancor swallowed Washington, as Clintonian triangulation empowered the radical right. 
 Given that experience, can you fault ''Gen XYZ'' for wanting to move in a new direction, rather than cling to false nostalgia? David Silverstone
 New York, Sept. 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009



59 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: New York Philharmonic Might Play in North Korea

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
With the encouragement of the State Department, officials of the New York Philharmonic were en route to North Korea yesterday to discuss a possible concert in Pyongyang in February.
 The idea of a visit to North Korea, where the totalitarian government keeps a tight rein on the people and sharply restricts access to the outside world, began with a somewhat vague invitation in August but has taken shape in recent weeks. Zarin Mehta, the orchestra's president, and Eric Latzky, its public relations director, were in Beijing yesterday and are due in North Korea tomorrow. 
 In telephone interviews they said they would examine possible halls, hotels and travel arrangements. ''It would be kind of extraordinary for us to play there,'' Mr. Mehta said. ''If this venture helps in furthering what's been going on in the last couple of weeks in terms of the normalizing of relationships,'' he said, ''that would become a wonderful thing for the world.'' 
 The trip by Philharmonic officials coincided with what appeared to be progress in diplomatic efforts to limit North Korea's nuclear program. An agreement announced on Wednesday sets out a plan for the country to disable its nuclear facilities in exchange for fuel oil or economic aid. The United States is a party to these negotiations, and the Bush administration has praised the deal.
 The chief United States negotiator, Christopher R. Hill, played a role in brokering a possible Philharmonic visit, meeting with orchestra officials last month at the State Department's suggestion, Mr. Latzky said. ''Ambassador Hill was very encouraging,'' he said. ''He felt that this would be a positive endeavor.''
 Mr. Hill was ambassador to South Korea when the Philharmonic toured there in 2004. He attended a concert and spoke warmly at a reception for the orchestra, Mr. Latzky said. 
 The exploratory trip also comes at a time of what appears to be a softening in relations between the United States and North Korea. Members of North Korea's United Nations mission, usually required to remain within a small radius of New York City, were recently granted permission to make a short tourist visit with family members to Washington. University and sports contacts have also increased between the two countries.
 The visit would probably come at the end of the orchestra's planned tour in China, from Feb. 7 to 25. Given North Korea's deep isolation for so many years, it is unclear what conditions would be like for a major Western symphony orchestra.
 ''It's obviously not routine,'' Mr. Mehta said. ''It's a country that none of us have ever dreamed of going to. The next three or four days are going to be very eye-opening for us.'' 
 He said the Philharmonic would not consider going to North Korea without American government support. ''We didn't even start to think about going until we had positive signals from the State Department that it was a good thing,'' he said. Philharmonic officials point out that a visit with political implications would not be a first for the orchestra. Leonard Bernstein took the orchestra to the Soviet Union in the late 1950s, Mr. Latzky said.
 Word of the invitation first came in mid-August, Mr. Latzky said, transmitted by a Korean cultural agent in California. A North Korean diplomat from the country's United Nations mission visited orchestra officials a month later. A formal letter from the Ministry of Culture followed. 
 ''As various questions began to be answered, we realized that the next step would be an advance visit,'' Mr. Latzky said.
 North Korea provides some education in Western classical music, Mr. Latzky said. It has at least one important orchestra, the State Symphony Orchestra of the People's Democratic Republic of Korea, which has made at least one recording and visited South Korea. State media has reported several times that North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-il, has attended performances.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



60 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: After Texas Caps Malpractice Awards, Doctors Rush to Practice There

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
In Texas, it can be a long wait for a doctor: up to six months. 
 That is not for an appointment. That is the time it can take the Texas Medical Board to process applications to practice.
 Four years after Texas voters approved a constitutional amendment limiting awards in medical malpractice lawsuits, doctors are responding as supporters predicted, arriving from all parts of the country to swell the ranks of specialists at Texas hospitals and bring professional health care to some long-underserved rural areas.
 The influx, raising the state's abysmally low ranking in physicians per capita, has flooded the medical board's offices in Austin with applications for licenses, close to 2,500 at last count. 
 ''It was hard to believe at first; we thought it was a spike,'' said Dr. Donald W. Patrick, executive director of the medical board and a neurosurgeon and lawyer. But Dr. Patrick said the trend -- licenses up 18 percent since 2003, when the damage caps were enacted -- has held, with an even sharper jump of 30 percent in the last fiscal year, compared with the year before. 
 ''Doctors are coming to Texas because they sense a friendlier malpractice climate,'' he said.
 Some experts say the picture may be more complicated and less positive. They question how big a role the cap on malpractice awards has played, arguing that awards in malpractice lawsuits showed little increase in the 12 years before the law changed. 
 And some critics, including liability lawyers, question whether the changes have left patients more vulnerable. With doctors facing reduced malpractice exposure, they say, many have cut back on their insurance, making it harder for plaintiffs to collect damages. Moreover, the critics say that some rural areas have fewer doctors than before.
 The measure changing Texas' malpractice landscape, Proposition 12, was narrowly approved in a constitutional referendum on Sept. 12, 2003. It barred the courts from interfering in limits set by the Legislature on medical malpractice recoveries. 
 For pain and suffering, so-called noneconomic damage, patients can sue a doctor and, in unusual cases, up to two health care institutions for no more than $250,000 each, under limits adopted by the Legislature. Plaintiffs can still recover economic losses, like the cost of continuing medical care or lost income, but the amount they can win was capped at $1.6 million in death cases.
 All but 15 states have adopted some limits on medical damage awards, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. But the restrictions in Texas go further than in many states, where the limits are often twice as high as they are here.
 ''Other states have passed tort reform, but Texas implemented big changes all at once,'' said Lisa Robin, a vice president for government relations at the Federation of State Medical Boards, a national umbrella group based in Dallas. 
 Some experts say that the lack of a state income tax, combined with what William M. Sage, a law professor at the University of Texas in Austin, called a ''relatively rapid transition in its tort reputation as a plaintiff-friendly state,'' has contributed to the state's appeal to doctors.
 Dr. Timothy George, 47, a pediatric neurosurgeon, credits the measure in part with attracting him and his sought-after specialty last year to Austin from North Carolina. ''Texas made it easier to practice and easier to take care of complex patients,'' he said. 
 The increase in doctors -- double the rate of the population increase -- has raised the state's ranking in physicians per capita to 42nd in 2005 from 48th in 2001, according to the American Medical Association. It is most likely considerably higher now, according to the medical association, which takes two years to compile the standings. Still, the latest figures show Texas with 194 patient-care physicians per 100,000 population, far below the District of Columbia, which led the nation with 659. 
 The Texas Medical Board reports licensing 10,878 new physicians since 2003, up from 8,391 in the prior four years. It issued a record 980 medical licenses at its last meeting in August, raising the number of doctors in Texas to 44,752, with a backlog of nearly 2,500 applications. 
 Of those awaiting processing, the largest number, after Texas, come from New York (145), followed by California (118) and Florida (100).
 In some medical specialties, the gains have been especially striking, said Jon Opelt, executive director of the Texas Alliance for Patient Access, a medical advocacy group: 186 obstetricians, 156 orthopedic surgeons and 26 neurosurgeons.
 Adding to the state's allure for doctors, Mr. Opelt said, was an average 21.3 percent drop in malpractice insurance premiums, not counting rebates for renewal.
 To help state officials monitor the influx of doctors, the medical board recently got money to hire six more employees, said Dr. Patrick, the director since 2001. It now has 17 lawyers, compared with no more than four when he arrived, he said. 
 Since 2003, investigations of doctors have gone up 40 percent, patient complaints have gone up 25 percent, and disciplinary actions about 8 percent, said Jill Wiggins, a board spokeswoman. But the figures may reflect greater regulatory diligence rather than more misconduct, Ms. Wiggins said. 
 Of the 10,878 physicians licensed since 2003, she said, 14 have been the subject of disciplinary actions, on charges as diverse as addiction problems and record-keeping infractions, with none accused of harming patients.
 But there are those who are skeptical about the caps on malpractice. 
 ''We've lost our system of legal accountability, said N. Alex Winslow, executive director of Texas Watch, a consumer advocacy group. ''Just having more doctors doesn't make patients safer. It remains to be seen who is coming to our state.''
 Demian McElhinny, 33, a former hospice pharmacy technician in El Paso, recently settled claims against a neurological surgeon for spinal surgery that left him disabled and his family impoverished; he said he emerged with ''pennies on the dollar.'' His wife, Kelly, found work as a school bus driver, he said, while ''I'm at home being a housewife to my two boys.''
 Mr. McElhinny's surgeon, Dr. Paul Henry Cho, later admitted to the medical board that he was addicted to a narcotic cough syrup and had written fraudulent prescriptions. Dr. Cho's license to prescribe drugs was suspended, although it was soon restored, and he moved from El Paso to a hospital in Fort Worth. He did not return a call to his office, and his lawyer declined to comment.
 Paula Sweeney, a leading Dallas liability lawyer and a past president of the Texas Trial Lawyers Association, said, ''A lot of legislators are aware they went too far in '03.''
 Texas Watch, in a report last February, questioned the decline in malpractice insurance rates, saying they must be seen in light of increases of as much as 147 percent before the 2003 referendum. And Bernard S. Black, a law professor at the University of Texas, has published studies showing little increase in Texas insurance awards from 1990 to 2002, casting doubt, he said, on the ''malpractice insurance crisis.''
 Professor Black also said that data was too scant to attribute the rise in the number of doctors to the damage caps. ''I don't doubt there's an effect,'' he said, ''but I think it's a small one.''
 Texas Watch also contends that many poor rural areas of Texas remain underserved, and rural West Texas has actually lost several physicians since 2003. But Dr. James Baumgartner, a pediatric neurosurgeon at Memorial Hermann Hospital in Houston, is among many doctors who believe the new malpractice caps have helped. 
 Dr. Baumgartner said it was now far easier to recruit doctors to a state where close to 30 percent of children lack health insurance and Medicaid reimbursements are low.
 Dr. Keith Hill, a recently discharged Army doctor with a specialty in foot and ankle reconstruction, said the change in state law was the reason he moved from Georgia to open a practice in Beaumont, a poor city in East Texas long seen as plaintiff-friendly. 
 Had it not happened, said Dr. Hill, 40, ''I can say I would not have considered Texas.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Donald W. Patrick, executive director of the Texas Medical Board, with applications for medical licenses sent to it. Dr. Keith Hill, who waited five months for a license after he moved from Georgia, was recently fitted for a lab coat at the Beaumont Bone and Joint Institute. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DAMAGES (89%); TORT REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); TRENDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); TORTS (77%); RANKINGS (72%); NEUROSCIENCE (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



61 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Collapse

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Modern conservatism begins with Edmund Burke. What Burke articulated was not an ideology or a creed, but a disposition, a reverence for tradition, a suspicion of radical change.
 When conservatism came to America, it became creedal. Free market conservatives built a creed around freedom and capitalism. Religious conservatives built a creed around their conception of a transcendent order. Neoconservatives and others built a creed around the words of Lincoln and the founders. 
 Over the years, the voice of Burke has been submerged beneath the clamoring creeds. In fact, over the past few decades the conservative ideologies have been magnified, while the temperamental conservatism of Burke has been abandoned. 
 Over the past six years, the Republican Party has championed the spread of democracy in the Middle East. But the temperamental conservative is suspicious of rapid reform, believing that efforts to quickly transform anything will have, as Burke wrote ''pleasing commencements'' but ''lamentable conclusions.'' 
 The world is too complex, the Burkean conservative believes, for rapid reform. Existing arrangements contain latent functions that can be neither seen nor replaced by the reformer. The temperamental conservative prizes epistemological modesty, the awareness of the limitations on what we do and can know, what we can and cannot plan.
 Over the past six years, the Bush administration has operated on the assumption that if you change the political institutions in Iraq, the society will follow. But the Burkean conservative believes that society is an organism; that custom, tradition and habit are the prime movers of that organism; and that successful government institutions grow gradually from each nation's unique network of moral and social restraints.
 Over the past few years, the vice president and the former attorney general have sought to expand executive power as much as possible in the name of protecting Americans from terror. But the temperamental conservative believes that power must always be clothed in constitutionalism. The dispositional conservative is often more interested in means than ends (the reverse of President Bush) and asks how power is divided before asking for what purpose it is used.
 Over the past decade, religious conservatives within the G.O.P. have argued that social policies should be guided by the eternal truths of natural law and that questions about stem cell research and euthanasia should reflect the immutable sacredness of human life.
 But temperamental conservatives are suspicious of the idea of settling issues on the basis of abstract truth. These kinds of conservatives hold that moral laws emerge through deliberation and practice and that if legislation is going to be passed that slows medical progress, it shouldn't be on the basis of abstract theological orthodoxy. 
 Over the past four decades, free market conservatives within the Republican Party have put freedom at the center of their political philosophy. But the dispositional conservative puts legitimate authority at the center. So while recent conservative ideology sees government as a threat to freedom, the temperamental conservative believes government is like fire -- useful when used legitimately, but dangerous when not.
 Over the past few decades, the Republican Party has championed a series of reforms designed to devolve power to the individual, through tax cuts, private pensions and medical accounts. The temperamental conservative does not see a nation composed of individuals who should be given maximum liberty to make choices. Instead, the individual is a part of a social organism and thrives only within the attachments to family, community and nation that precede choice.
 Therefore, the temperamental conservative values social cohesion alongside individual freedom and worries that too much individualism, too much segmentation, too much tension between races and groups will tear the underlying unity on which all else depends. Without unity, the police are regarded as alien powers, the country will fracture under the strain of war and the economy will be undermined by lack of social trust. 
 To put it bluntly, over the past several years, the G.O.P. has made ideological choices that offend conservatism's Burkean roots. This may seem like an airy-fairy thing that does nothing more than provoke a few dissenting columns from William F. Buckley, George F. Will and Andrew Sullivan. But suburban, Midwestern and many business voters are dispositional conservatives more than creedal conservatives. They care about order, prudence and balanced budgets more than transformational leadership and perpetual tax cuts. It is among these groups that G.O.P. support is collapsing. 
 American conservatism will never be just dispositional conservatism. America is a creedal nation. But American conservatism is only successful when it's in tension -- when the ambition of its creeds is retrained by the caution of its Burkean roots. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (97%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); PHILOSOPHY (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); BIOETHICS (69%); LEGISLATION (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



62 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5917 words

HEADLINE: Art Listings

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 'JEON JOONHO: HYPER REALISM' The Korean artist Jeon Joonho is redecorating the White House. Not the building in Washington, but its representation on the reverse side of the $20 bill, as part of his explosive New York gallery debut at Perry Rubenstein Gallery in Chelsea. Into a digital rendering of the currency's familiar architectural scene, Mr. Jeon introduces a shadowy figure with a ladder and a paint roller, who, over several minutes, toils to cover the building's front windows and sandstone walls with glossy white paint. He even erases the decorative pediments above the ground floor windows on the facade, which gallery viewers attuned to architecture may notice is different from that of the current building; the White House has been substantially remodeled over its history of more than 200 years. 
 It is a playful trick, transforming the White House from a stately neo-Classical mansion in the popular Palladian style into a kind of bunker or fortified castle -- a comment, perhaps, on the continuing hysteria surrounding the threat of terrorism inside the United States. The artist's ''whitewashing'' of the structure also lends itself to pointed political readings, though there is no mention of this in the gallery literature. Either way, this is powerful, thought-provoking art. (Through Oct. 13, Perry Rubenstein Gallery, 534 West 24th Street, Chelsea, 212-627-8000, perryrubenstein .com; Mr. Jeon's work is also on view at the gallery's other Chelsea spaces: 527 West 23rd Street and 526 West 24th Street.) BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO 
 Museums
 ASIA SOCIETY: 'ZHANG HUAN: ALTERED STATES,' through Jan. 20. The Chinese artist Zhang Huan, the subject of this small, midcareer survey, is best known for the early, often poetic, sometimes sensationally masochistic performance work he did in the 1990s, which can only be seen in videos and photographs now. The objects in this show, which include giant fragments of Buddhist sculptures made from copper sheets and incense ash, are products of his new workshop-style studio in Shanghai. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org.
 (Holland Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'INFINITE ISLAND: CONTEMPORARY CARIBBEAN ART,' through Jan. 27. This large show, with 45 artists and a collective of designers, photographers and architects from the Dominican Republic adding to the count, fills two floors of temporary exhibition space, and care has been given to the selection. Several of the most substantial pieces were commissioned for the occasion. Organized by Tumelo Moshaka, associate curator of exhibitions at Brooklyn, it's an in-house job, a labor of love, though an uneven one. Too much work treads ground already covered by other art over the years. But what's good is really good, and the very existence of a show about identity politics, out of mainstream fashion in 2007, is cause for serious reflection. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'CAMILLE PISSARRO: IMPRESSIONS OF CITY AND COUNTRY,' through Feb. 3. This exhibition contains few out-and-out masterpieces, but it does give us a rare look at the radical philosophies behind paintings that to a modern eye appear harmlessly bourgeois. For Pissarro, an anarchist and a Jew (albeit a secular one) in 19th-century France, Impressionism was about much more than the fleeting effects of light. It was about labor, the elimination of hierarchies and an idealized balance between urban and rural life. Pissarro emerges from this exhibition as an artist who never quite resolved the conflict between labor and sensation, but whose subtly anti-authoritarian stance propelled painting into the next century. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, jewishmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ABSTRACT EXPRESSIONISM AND OTHER MODERN WORKS: THE MURIEL KALLIS STEINBERG NEWMAN COLLECTION,' through Feb. 3. One of the Met's most significant gifts of midcentury art, promised in 1980 and finalized last year, is taut and rich, reflective of a passionately discerning eye. Nearly everything is a standout, not just the rare de Kooning and the substantial Pollock, or works by Mark Rothko, Franz Kline, Claes Oldenburg and Jules Olitski. Max Ernst's portrait of Gala Eluard; sculptures by Giacometti and Jacques Lipchitz; paintings by Alfred Leslie and Mark Tobey; and a collage by Anne Ryan radiate an almost brazen self-sufficiency. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
 THE MET: 'THE AGE OF REMBRANDT: DUTCH PAINTING IN THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART,' through Jan. 6. The Met has long advertised itself as a grand art multiplex, a cluster of several separate world-class museums under a single roof. And we get a demonstration in this display of its entire 17th-century Dutch painting collection: 228 pictures, of which roughly a third are usually on view at any time, and some never. In addition to the Rembrandts, there are five Vermeers, nearly a dozen Frans Halses, and the list goes on in an inventory of breathtaking scope and depth. How to package it? The Met has come up with a theme, and a perfect one for our time: money. The work has been sorted not by artists' names or dates, but by the names and dates of the collectors who bought and gave the paintings to the museum. This is the history of the Dutch Golden Age according to the American Gilded Age. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'BRIDGING EAST AND WEST: THE CHINESE DIASPORA AND LIN YUTANG,' through Feb. 10. Focused on a single modern family art collection, this show weaves like a DNA strand through the Met's Chinese painting galleries. The 40 examples of painting and calligraphy belonged to the writer and scholar Lin Yutang (1895-1976) and his descendants, who have divided their time between China and the West. Accumulated over years, the collection has the casual logic of a household photo album, with evidence of shared habits, tastes and temperaments, and of personal interchange between generations. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'COAXING THE SPIRITS TO DANCE,' through Dec. 2. How the Papuans practiced their beliefs on the remote Pacific island of New Guinea in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, when they still had little contact with the West, is the complex and fascinating story told in this exhibition of some 60 objects and 30 rare photographs of the works on site or in actual use. The carved and painted ''spirit boards'' made throughout the gulf region, on the south coast of present-day Papua New Guinea, are probably the most easily recognized of the area's traditional artworks. Their central designs, passed down from fathers to sons and through marriages, typically represent a bush or river spirit, with a heavily stylized face and perhaps a small body, surrounded by various totemic symbols. More daring in concept are the masks used in ritual dances. Papuan art may not be as varied or exciting as that of many African or Amerind peoples, but it records a vibrant community. (See above.) (Grace Glueck)
 THE MET: 'DEPTH OF FIELD,' through March 23. The Met's recently acquired large-scale photographs finally have some room to breathe in the new Joyce and Robert Menschel Hall for Modern Photography, a high-ceilinged, gray-carpeted sanctuary on the second floor. Curators at MoMA need not worry: The inaugural installation (a sampler rather than a thematic slice) is dominated by white, mostly male Europeans and heavily weighted with references to history and landscape painting. Despite its limitations, ''Depth of Field'' is not a bad debut. We can also expect more from future installations, which will explore themes like ''photography about photography.'' (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'EXCELLENCE AND ELEGANCE: DECORATIVE ARTS OF THE EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY QING COURT,' through Nov. 25. The consummate ambition that Chinese artists brought to diminutive scale is a striking feature of this small show of art from the Qing dynasty, China's last imperial line. The Qing were both conservatively antiquarian and expansively cosmopolitan, and those trends can be seen in the European-inflected versions of ancient Chinese forms in this show. (See above.) (Cotter)
 * THE MET: 'INCISIVE IMAGES: IVORY AND BOXWOOD CARVINGS,' through Nov. 25. This extraordinary show, drawn almost entirely from the Met's vaults, presents an array of nearly 100 carved figures, crucifixes, reliefs, containers, hand-held weapons and the occasional piece of furniture. It is an engrossing hive of religious fervor, Classical erudition (and occasional naughtiness), style shifts and multicultural crosscurrents. And among the many feats of drop-dead artistic skill are several of traffic-stopping caliber. Don't miss it. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'NEO RAUCH AT THE MET: PARA,' through Oct. 14. The figurative style of the leader of the Leipzig School is never less than ambitious, but here it looks almost fatally retro, as if the context of the Met had made the painter's mind turn to thoughts of browned-out colors; characters of a Romantic 19th- century mien; and settings that often suggest garrets or hunting lodges. The result is an exhibition that looks too much at home in the museum and sells Mr. Rauch's talent short, but is still one that should be seen. (See above.) (Smith)
 * THE MET: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Dec. 2. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen who not only conceive and design their own objects but have a direct hand in making them, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92), portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer; John Cederquist's elegant cabinet concealed behind a trompe l'oeil door painted and veneered to look like a battered wooden packing case with a rowdy wave tearing through it; and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. Traditionalists, too, have their place in this show, with the wood workers Wharton Esherick and Sam Maloof represented by elegantly simple renditions in the furniture line; respectively, a music stand and a Shaker-like settee. (See above.) (Glueck) 
 THE MET: 'FRANK STELLA ON THE ROOF,' through Oct. 28. Two large Pop Art sculptures, two architectural models and a model enlarged into a sculpture-installation piece confirm that one of the greatest American artists of the postwar era doesn't do himself or anyone else any favors when he strays from the wall to work fully in the round. The results have a certain Stella-like verve but are otherwise generic. (See above.) (Smith)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'PAINTED WITH WORDS: VINCENT VAN GOGH'S LETTERS TO EMILE BERNARD,' through Jan. 6. Words, ideas, sensations and images are packed into this exhibition, a manuscript display that is also something more than that. Although 20 handwritten letters from van Gogh to Bernard, a French artist and writer 15 years his junior, are at its center, they are surrounded by nearly two dozen van Gogh painting and drawings, among them a splendid self-portrait. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, www.morganlibrary.org (Cotter)
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'EL MUSEO'S BIENAL: THE (S) FILES,' through Jan. 6. You feel the growing pains and attempts to stretch out in the fifth edition of ''The (S) Files'' (short for ''The Selected Files).'' The show provides a survey of 51 emerging artists based in New York and from this year's invited guest country, Ecuador. Some of the works distinctly consider location, displacement and identity. Others are less concerned with issues that make for good biennial panel discussions and more interested in mining older art -- Surrealism, Minimalism and Postminimalism -- and employing craft techniques. Many of the artists in ''The (S) Files'' have appeared in other local survey shows, which raises the criticism often leveled at biennials: that in trying to cover the waterfront of contemporary art, they end up making the waterfront look, from every angle, increasingly the same. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Martha Schwendener)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'NEW YORK RISES: PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE DE SALIGNAC,' through Oct. 28. This exhibition makes a case for adding Eugene de Salignac, the official photographer for the New York City Department of Bridges, Plant and Structures from 1903 to 1934, to the canon of American photographers whose images are forever linked with the city. He captured the Williamsburg, Manhattan and Queensboro Bridges just as construction was completed and the subways tracks were being laid. In some of his moving, eye-catching images, he exhibits his appreciation for New York's work force. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1673, mcny.org. (Bridget L. Goodbody)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'REPICTURING THE PAST/PICTURING THE PRESENT,' through Nov. 5. Modern and contemporary artists reconsider both the picture book and standard narrative in works that use mythology, history and current events as their source material. Several pieces, like those by Max Beckmann, Christian Boltanski and William Kentridge, mine the 20th century's major conflicts. Religion enters in a variety of guises, as in James Ensor's ''Entrance of Christ Into Brussels'' or versions of ''The Temptation of Saint Anthony'' by Odilon Redon and Tim Rollins & K.O.S. (Kids of Survival). The legacy of slavery is addressed in Glenn Ligon's lithographs and Kara Walker's ''Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated),'' which will also complement the retrospective of Ms. Walker's work that opens at the Whitney in October. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Schwendener)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'THE ABSTRACT IMPULSE: FIFTY YEARS OF ABSTRACTION AT THE NATIONAL ACADEMY, 1956-2006,' through Jan. 6. This exhibition illuminates the troubled history of abstraction at the academy over the last half-century, with a selection of 47 paintings, sculptures and works on paper by its members, many only recently elected, who took part in movements like Abstract Expressionism, Minimalism and Kinetic and Op Art. Drawn almost entirely from the museum's collection, it may not be an outstanding group of artworks, but it helps to explain how this once-celebrated museum and school lost much of its prestige. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Benjamin Genocchio)
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY: 'NATURE AND THE AMERICAN VISION: THE HUDSON RIVER SCHOOL AT THE NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY,' through Jan. 13. The third show in a series on Hudson River School paintings from the collection argues that the idea of an American landscape filled with ''sacred'' sites is as much a cultural invention as it is an accident of nature. Thomas Cole's epic series of imaginary landscape paintings, ''The Course of Empire,'' is the centerpiece. Other works look back to the Old World, borrowing ideas about the European Grand Tour to create an American Grand Tour of natural sites along the Hudson, the Catskills, the Adirondacks and farther westward. The exhibition includes works by George Loring Brown, Asher B. Durand, Albert Bierstadt, Frederic Edwin Church and others. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Schwendener)
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'DESIGN: ISAMU KENMOCHI AND ISAMU NOGUCHI,' through March 16. The Bamboo Basket Chair was the result of a brief collaboration in 1950 between the Japanese-American sculptor and designer Isamu Noguchi (1904-88) and the Japanese industrial designer Isamu Kenmochi (1912-71). The chair was never manufactured, and the prototype was lost. The example here was recreated from photographs. Mostly, however, the chair provides an excuse to compare the design careers of Noguchi and Kenmochi and examine their roles in midcentury modern design, as well as the cultural relationship between Japan and the United States. Kenmochi's ''Japanese modern'' furniture is here, as well as a room devoted to Noguchi's most popular design achievement, the Akari light sculptures. 32-37 Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. 
 (Schwendener)
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'GENERATION 1.5,' through Dec 2. Generation 1.5 refers to people who emigrate during their adolescent years, whose identity is shaped by both their old and new cultures. Some of the works in this exhibition address this process; elsewhere the show floats into general meditations on globalization and cultural dislocation. Lee Mingwei's ''Quartet Project,'' a sound and video installation, uses monitors playing a performance of Dvorak's ''American Quartet.'' Seher Shah's drawings combine lotus patterns, Mecca cubes and Western architectural motifs, and works by Rirkrit Tiravanija and Emily Jacir explore the successful contemporary artist as a globalized citizen. The show is emblematic of the museum's program, which is increasingly devoted to reflecting the borough's extreme diversity, but risks turning the immigrant experience into a platitude. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. (Schwendener)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'MIDNIGHT'S DAYDREAM,' through Oct. 28. The three artists in this show were artists in residence at the Studio Museum of Harlem in the last year, but their work represents very different approaches. Titus Kaphar is the classicist, taking European and American portrait paintings from the 18th and 19th centuries and reconfiguring them into strategic compositions. Wardell Milan II is the archetypal collagist, photographing arrangements of art reproductions, family photos and images cut from magazines. Demetrius Oliver is the Conceptualist, working in the trickster vein of David Hammons and Duchamp. All three, however, actively confront race and (art) history, which often seems a mandate for young black artists. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Schwendener) 
 WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART: 'FAITH AND FORTUNE: FIVE CENTURIES OF EUROPEAN MASTERWORKS,' through Dec. 9. Celebrating the return of its famous Renaissance, Baroque and Rococo paintings and objects of art from a three-year national tour, the Wadsworth has arranged a feast of a show. One of the most appealing things about this gathering of some 400 treasures is the mix, with knockout paintings keeping period company with small sculptures, elaborate table furnishings, decorative platters, Meissen knockoffs of Chinese pottery, a porcelain birdcage and vases and such. Strolling through the galleries, you'll find treasures like ''Saint Francis of Assisi in Ecstasy'' (about 1594-95), said to be the first authentic Caravaggio in an American museum; Fra Angelico's poignant, poetic fragment ''Head of an Angel'' (about 1455-50); and Francisco de Zurbaran's fearsome portrayal of a dead martyr, ''Saint Serapion'' (1628). But the piece de resistance is an entire gallery made into an art and curio cabinet, with a planned clutter of brilliant objects that play to a viewer's inner acquisitor: exotic shells mounted in gold; an extraordinary Baroque ivory carving (presumed to be before 1650) of Adam and Eve; an automatic tabletop clock (about 1619) with a standing lion that could roll its eyes, open its jaws and stick out its tongue when the hours struck. Dazzlement prevails. 600 Main Street, Hartford, (860) 278-2670, wadsworthatheneum.org. (Glueck)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'RUDOLF STINGEL,' through Oct. 14. The work of this Italian-born artist, who is based in New York, seduces the eye while also upending most notions of what, exactly, constitutes a painting, how it should be made and by whom. His favored materials include carpet and Styrofoam, as well as paint on canvas. His style swings between abstract purity and Photo Realism. His grandly spare survey has a mirrored floor and a foil-covered room, lighted by a crystal chandelier, that visitors may mark on and that he may or may not later appropriate as a painting. As enthralling as it is perturbing, his work combines beauty, humor and a democratic slant with a rigorous sense of economy. It also forms one of the best-looking exhibitions seen lately at the Whitney. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith) 
 Galleries: Uptown
 'GUILLERMO KUITCA: STAGE FRIGHT' The Argentine-born Guillermo Kuitca makes art for and about opera, but he could never be accused of upstaging the singers: he peers out from their side of the curtain, taking in the intimidating arc of the audience. Just in time for the opening of the fall season, the tiny, year-old Gallery Met at Lincoln Center (just off the lobby of the Metropolitan Opera) places Mr. Kuitca's meditations on the architecture of opera houses in intimate proximity to the real thing. ''Stage Fright'' collapses Wagner's Gesamtkunstwerk into two dimensions, with a Surrealist-inspired hybrid of painting, printmaking and digital photography. Gallery Met at Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metoperafamily.org, through Nov. 1. (Rosenberg)
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'KOREAN FUNERARY FIGURES: COMPANIONS FOR THE JOURNEY TO THE OTHER WORLD' What makes this somewhat unusual for a show of mortuary art is that the kkoktu, or figures adorning funeral biers, were created for ordinary citizens rather than for aristocrats or the wealthy. They're also rather fun and friendly. Brightly painted clowns, acrobats and animals were meant to accompany the dead into the next world, to ease the journey and provide consolation for the mourners. Among the 74 kkoktu are versions of ''The Guide,'' riding an animal; ''The Guard,'' who protects the soul from evil spirits; ''The Caregiver'' (generally women); and ''The Entertainer,'' as well as a replica of a funeral bier modeled on a late-18th-century original from Tongyoung, South Kyongsang Province. The Korea Society, 950 Third Avenue, (212) 759-7525, koreasociety.org, through Nov. 20. (Schwendener)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 JULES DE BALINCOURT: 'UNKNOWING MAN'S NATURE' In his first New York solo appearance since decamping to Berlin, Jules de Balincourt continues to send up the enlightened global conscience on an increasingly varied scale. The 16 paintings and a sculpture in this latest show, all from this year, veer from notebook- to carpet-size, and from hedonism to grim survivalism. Two immense landscapes dominate: a sprawling coastal nightscape (possibly Los Angeles) and a melting glacier awash in neon pink. Mr. de Balincourt's stenciled slogans exhort us to ''think globally and act locally,'' even as the tiny figures that populate his compositions seem to have given up the fight. Zach Feuer Gallery, 530 West 24 Street, (212) 989-7720, lflgallery.com, through Oct. 13. (Rosenberg)
 NATALIE FRANK: 'WHERE SHE STOPS' There is a heavy dose of Lucien Freud in Natalie Frank's paintings. She also borrows from Paula Rego, Jenny Saville and Cecily Brown. From American painters she adopts Delia Brown's interest in the decorative and decadent, and Eric Fischl's psychosexual narratives. The hybrid British-American lineage makes sense since Ms. Frank studied at the Slade in London and earned a Master of Fine Arts from Columbia in New York. The real friction comes from seeing a painter in her 20s exhibiting works in Chelsea that look like something you'd see in traditionalist strongholds on 57th Street. The implication seems to be that there's something radical in Ms. Frank's approach to figurative painting, when really there's not. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 744-7400, miandn.com, through Oct. 13. (Schwendener)
 WOLFGANG LAIB: 'WITHOUT TIME -- WITHOUT BODY -- WITHOUT PLACE' It may be comforting that the mystical German artist Wolfgang Laib remains mostly on message, making ritualistic Process Art from rice, pollen, beeswax and other relatively unmanipulated materials. His 10th solo show in New York is well served by the serene proportions of his new representative, especially in the largest room, where hundreds of tiny mounds of rice and five central mounds of bright yellow hazelnut pollen cover the entire floor, invoking infinity in ways both modest and monumental. Sean Kelly Gallery, 528 West 29th Street, (212) 239-1181, through Oct. 13. (Smith)
 'MAKERS AND MODELERS: WORKS IN CERAMIC' This show of ceramic sculptures by 30 artists is beyond timely, even if the choices are at times too Gladstone-centric and cautiously mainstream. There are several outstanding efforts, among them Rosemarie Trockel's wryly beautiful day bed, Anne Chu's toasty ''Hellish Spirits'' (life size) and Andrew Lord's ambitious experiment in ceramic outreach. Kai Althoff, Anish Kapoor, Liz Larner, Rebecca Warren and, of course, the great Ken Price reward attention, as do newcomers like Gert and Uwe Tobias, Klara Kristalova and, the show's biggest splash, William O'Brien. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com, through Oct. 13. (Smith)
 RAYMOND PETTIBON: 'HERE'S YOUR IRONY BACK (THE BIG PICTURE)' I love Raymond Pettibon all the time, but especially when he's mad, and he's mad as hell in this floor-to-ceiling display of splenetic and coruscating drawings about Middle East politics, Iraq and a world fueled by war culture. It's a great, brutal, hilarious show, a controlled explosion. David Zwirner, 519 West 19th Street, (212) 727-2070, www.davidzwirner.com, through Oct. 20. (Cotter)
 COLLIER SCHORR: 'THERE I WAS' Collier Schorr's work is full of young men, including wrestlers or boys dressed in military uniforms. Here she focuses on a 19-year-old drag car racer, Charlie (Astoria Chas) Snyder, who was killed in Vietnam. In creating what amounts to a neo-conceptual memorial, Ms. Schorr drills down into the culture of war and the making of images, showing how no one form -- photography or drawing, artistic or amateur -- can claim precedence over another, and that, while images can shape historical narratives, they sadly can't halt history in an era where one war is barely finished before another has begun. 303 Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-1121, 303gallery.com, through Oct. 27. (Schwendener)
 PETER SCHUYFF In his best show in some time, this former 1980s art star, currently based in Amsterdam, twists the high-low, art-craft, flat-spatial dualities of his earlier abstractions. In a manner reminiscent of the Situationist Asger Jorn, he adds fleshed-out Shuyffian motifs to found paintings of all varieties, and amends respectable old drawings with black and white de Stijlish designs. The results are amusing, disturbing and repellent. Vandalism is an issue in the drawings, but it's oddly hypnotic. Nicole Klagsbrun, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 243-3335, nicoleklagsbrun.com, through Oct. 13. (Smith)
 RYAN TRECARTIN: 'I-BE AREA' Ryan Trecartin's 100-minute-long video, ''I-Be Area,'' has it all: four or five dynamic male-ish and female-ish characters, several complicated plots, constantly shifting locations and a fictional but real language of murderously barbed non sequiturs disguised in teenage prattle, as well as sculpture (the sets) and painting (mostly on faces). Mr. Trecartin himself acts the major roles, and he also directed, designed and edited the piece. The result is a new-feeling energy, jumpy and queer, with the unreal reality of YouTube. Elizabeth Dee Gallery, 545 West 20th Street, (212) 924-7545, elizabethdeegallery.com, through Oct. 13. (Cotter)
 ANDREA ZITTEL: 'SMOCKSHOP' The well-known, design-inclined artist has recast the art gallery as a small dress shop (with mirror and dressing room), out of which the art has been literally flying. Available for purchase are jumperlike double aprons based on garments that Ms. Zittel has worn for years -- usually one per season. Having been made by several different artist-smockers, the versions here vary tremendously, from plain to fancy, fluid to bulky, from wearable collage to wearable sculpture. Personal uniform, it turns out, is not at all an oxymoron. Susan Inglett Gallery, 534 West 22nd Street, (212) 647-9111, inglettgallery.com, through Oct. 13. (Smith)
 Galleries: Other
 'THE GEOMETRY OF HOPE: LATIN AMERICAN ABSTRACT ART FROM THE PATRICIA PHELPS DE CISNEROS COLLECTION' A must-see for anyone interested in modern art, this quietly groundbreaking show tells the story of postwar abstraction from a radically different angle: that of the Latin American artists who, starting in the 1940s, extended their possibilities without resorting to Surrealism. They delved into new materials before the Minimalists, gave Op art a helpfully physical twist, pushed form toward function (and performance) and generally opted for a dancing, off-kilter, open-ended geometry greatly at odds with the four-square machismo reductivism of many of their North American counterparts. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, at Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (212) 988-6780, www.nyu.edu/greyart, through Dec. 8. (Smith)
 Public Art
 MAD. SQ. ART 2007: ROXY PAINE This installation is made up of two stainless-steel tree sculptures, ''Conjoined'' and ''Defunct,'' and a glacierlike boulder, ''Erratic,'' by Mr. Paine. The tree sculptures are made from thousands of pieces of metal pipe and rod elements that have been cut, welded and polished. They are real enough to resemble actual trees but not so real that they form a continuum with the surrounding foliage. What captures your immediate attention is ''Conjoined,'' a 40-by-45-foot sculpture of two trees whose gleaming steel branches cantilever and then improbably connect in midair. It is impossible to tell where the branches of one tree begin and the other's end. But the piece is also beautifully eccentric, a futuristic fantasy of streamlined vegetation manufactured in imitation of the real thing, only much more appealing and exciting. Madison Square Park, 23rd Street and Fifth Avenue, (212) 538-4689, madisonsquarepark.org, through Dec. 31. (Genocchio) 
 Last Chance
 SADIE BENNING: 'FORM OF A WATERFALL' Sadie Benning first gained recognition as a wunderkind in the early 1990s when she exhibited videos made with a toy Fisher-Price Pixelvision camera that drew on her experiences as a lesbian teenager. In recent years Ms. Benning, now 34, has been distancing herself from video. This current show includes abstract works made with colored pencil that look like washed-out pieces by Joseph Albers, and a turntable and vinyl albums recorded by Ms. Benning from which you can choose your own soundtrack for the show. This isn't the kind of exhibition that would get an unknown artist noticed, but it is an assured demonstration of Ms. Benning's ethos of self-determination and D.I.Y. process. Orchard, 47 Orchard Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1061, orchard47.org; closes on Sunday. (Schwendener)
 'DOCUMENTA 5' This art extravaganza first occurred in Kassel, Germany, 35 years before this summer's 12th incarnation, and its achievements tend to be shrouded in myth. As the first lavish international exhibition to play up Minimal and Conceptual art, it upset lots of people, including not a few Minimalists and Conceptualists. Centering on the first exhibition's distinctive orange three-ring catalog, this meticulous show revisits its publications, press coverage, controversies and various byproducts, like a shopping bag by Joseph Beuys. It is highly educational and unexpectedly riveting. Specific Object, 601 West 26th Street, Room M285, Chelsea, (212) 242-6253, specificobject.com; closes on Monday. (Smith)
 DANA FRANKFORT: 'DF' In her disappointing Chelsea gallery show, this promising young artist continues to mine the busy intersection of painting and language. While she has expended a lot of her energy effectively developing her considerable instinct for color, her paint handling loses out. Harried and splintery, it suggests both a parody of expressionism and genuine emotional turmoil. A greater effort is needed. Bellwether, 134 10th Avenue, between 18th and 19th Streets, (212) 929-5959, bellwethergallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 KENT HENRICKSEN: 'DIVINE DEVILTRIES' In his second gallery show Kent Henricksen continues to orchestrate embroidery and gold leaf; decorative motifs; images from old books and prints; and racial, gender and religious politics into an impressive, exquisitely wrought package. The problem is that while the ambition is substantial, the parts are still too familiar. John Connelly Presents, 625 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 337-9563; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 SEHER SHAH: 'JIHAD POP' This solo show by Seher Shah, who was born in Pakistan, focuses on the contradictions inherent in monumental symbols and the communality that underlies them: in a beautiful and intricate wall drawing, the black cube of the holy Kaaba in Mecca both opens to reveal a courtyard garden and unfolds to form a cross; Islamic ornament and graffiti become one. Other references are more difficult to read, but there's a lot going on here. Momenta Art, 359 Bedford Avenue, near South Fourth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-5058, momentaart.org; closes on Monday. (Cotter)
 ARLENE SHECHET: 'NEW WORK' This terrific show 23 years into a productive career offers evocative glazed ceramic vessel-sculptures. One group of elaborately bulbous, ostensibly monochrome forms conjures scholar's rocks, genie-sprouting lamps, hookahs and ungainly, if abstracted, dancers. Another meditates on the Japanese tea ceremony with fat, roughly scooped-out cylinders mottled with textures and colors. Throughout, multiple spouts conjure up pot handles, limbs and snouts, especially the trunk of Ganesh, the Hindu elephant god. Elizabeth Harris Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-9666, eharrisgallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 JEFF SHORE AND JOHN FISHER: REEL TO REEL Two talented Texas artists make their New York gallery debut with an elaborate kinetic-electronic video installation in which live video sequences emanate from five small cameras aimed at miniature sets and accompanied by a real-time sound track in which digital samples are arranged by custom algorithms. The circuitry lining the wall is part of the mesmerizing effect, which is a little like being inside a 21st-century music box that has its own movie screen. Clementine, 623 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-5937; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 MAXIMILIAN TOTH: 'UNTIL THE YOUNG ARE HATCHED, FLEDGED AND FLOWN' The paintings in this young artist's solo debut look like giant anecdotal chalk drawings on blackboards. Kids horse around beside a seaside pier; toilet paper streamers hang from a tree on Halloween. And violence is ever present, in a bull-wresting contest, a Mardi Gras celebration with a shooting death, and in the midair meeting of a pair of eagles. Mr. Toth has a febrile hand and a good sense for off-center narrative, and he keeps things loose, a good sign. Fredericks & Freiser, 536 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 633-6555, fredericksfreisergallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (66%); TERRORISM (51%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CHINA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



63 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1760 words

HEADLINE: Army Enlists Anthropology In War Zones

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: SHABAK VALLEY, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
In this isolated Taliban stronghold in eastern Afghanistan, American paratroopers are fielding what they consider a crucial new weapon in counterinsurgency operations here: a soft-spoken civilian anthropologist named Tracy.
 Tracy, who asked that her surname not be used for security reasons, is a member of the first Human Terrain Team, an experimental Pentagon program that assigns anthropologists and other social scientists to American combat units in Afghanistan and Iraq. Her team's ability to understand subtle points of tribal relations -- in one case spotting a land dispute that allowed the Taliban to bully parts of a major tribe -- has won the praise of officers who say they are seeing concrete results. 
 Col. Martin Schweitzer, commander of the 82nd Airborne Division unit working with the anthropologists here, said that the unit's combat operations had been reduced by 60 percent since the scientists arrived in February, and that the soldiers were now able to focus more on improving security, health care and education for the population. 
 ''We're looking at this from a human perspective, from a social scientist's perspective,'' he said. ''We're not focused on the enemy. We're focused on bringing governance down to the people.'' 
 In September, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates authorized a $40 million expansion of the program, which will assign teams of anthropologists and social scientists to each of the 26 American combat brigades in Iraq and Afghanistan. Since early September, five new teams have been deployed in the Baghdad area, bringing the total to six. 
 Yet criticism is emerging in academia. Citing the past misuse of social sciences in counterinsurgency campaigns, including in Vietnam and Latin America, some denounce the program as ''mercenary anthropology'' that exploits social science for political gain. Opponents fear that, whatever their intention, the scholars who work with the military could inadvertently cause all anthropologists to be viewed as intelligence gatherers for the American military. 
 Hugh Gusterson, an anthropology professor at George Mason University, and 10 other anthropologists are circulating an online pledge calling for anthropologists to boycott the teams, particularly in Iraq.
 ''While often presented by its proponents as work that builds a more secure world,'' the pledge says, ''at base, it contributes instead to a brutal war of occupation which has entailed massive casualties.'' 
 In Afghanistan, the anthropologists arrived along with 6,000 troops, which doubled the American military's strength in the area it patrols, the country's east. 
 A smaller version of the Bush administration's troop increase in Iraq, the buildup in Afghanistan has allowed American units to carry out the counterinsurgency strategy here, where American forces generally face less resistance and are better able to take risks.
 A New Mantra
 Since Gen. David H. Petraeus, now the overall American commander in Iraq, oversaw the drafting of the Army's new counterinsurgency manual last year, the strategy has become the new mantra of the military. A recent American military operation here offered a window into how efforts to apply the new approach are playing out on the ground in counterintuitive ways.
 In interviews, American officers lavishly praised the anthropology program, saying that the scientists' advice has proved to be ''brilliant,'' helping them see the situation from an Afghan perspective and allowing them to cut back on combat operations. 
 The aim, they say, is to improve the performance of local government officials, persuade tribesmen to join the police, ease poverty and protect villagers from the Taliban and criminals.
 Afghans and Western civilian officials, too, praised the anthropologists and the new American military approach but were cautious about predicting long-term success. Many of the economic and political problems fueling instability can be solved only by large numbers of Afghan and American civilian experts.
 ''My feeling is that the military are going through an enormous change right now where they recognize they won't succeed militarily,'' said Tom Gregg, the chief United Nations official in southeastern Afghanistan. ''But they don't yet have the skill sets to implement'' a coherent nonmilitary strategy, he added.
 Deploying small groups of soldiers into remote areas, Colonel Schweitzer's paratroopers organized jirgas, or local councils, to resolve tribal disputes that have simmered for decades. Officers shrugged off questions about whether the military was comfortable with what David Kilcullen, an Australian anthropologist and an architect of the new strategy, calls ''armed social work.'' 
 ''Who else is going to do it?'' asked Lt. Col. David Woods, commander of the Fourth Squadron, 73rd Cavalry. ''You have to evolve. Otherwise you're useless.'' 
 The anthropology team here also played a major role in what the military called Operation Khyber. That was a 15-day drive late this summer in which 500 Afghan and 500 American soldiers tried to clear an estimated 200 to 250 Taliban insurgents out of much of Paktia Province, secure southeastern Afghanistan's most important road and halt a string of suicide attacks on American troops and local governors.
 In one of the first districts the team entered, Tracy identified an unusually high concentration of widows in one village, Colonel Woods said. Their lack of income created financial pressure on their sons to provide for their families, she determined, a burden that could drive the young men to join well-paid insurgents. Citing Tracy's advice, American officers developed a job training program for the widows. 
 In another district, the anthropologist interpreted the beheading of a local tribal elder as more than a random act of intimidation: the Taliban's goal, she said, was to divide and weaken the Zadran, one of southeastern Afghanistan's most powerful tribes. If Afghan and American officials could unite the Zadran, she said, the tribe could block the Taliban from operating in the area. 
 ''Call it what you want, it works,'' said Colonel Woods, a native of Denbo, Pa. ''It works in helping you define the problems, not just the symptoms.'' 
 Embedding Scholars
 The process that led to the creation of the teams began in late 2003, when American officers in Iraq complained that they had little to no information about the local population. Pentagon officials contacted Montgomery McFate, a Yale-educated cultural anthropologist working for the Navy who advocated using social science to improve military operations and strategy.
 Ms. McFate helped develop a database in 2005 that provided officers with detailed information on the local population. The next year, Steve Fondacaro, a retired Special Operations colonel, joined the program and advocated embedding social scientists with American combat units.
 Ms. McFate, the program's senior social science adviser and an author of the new counterinsurgency manual, dismissed criticism of scholars working with the military. ''I'm frequently accused of militarizing anthropology,'' she said. ''But we're really anthropologizing the military.''
 Roberto J. Gonzalez, an anthropology professor at San Jose State University, called participants in the program naive and unethical. He said that the military and the Central Intelligence Agency had consistently misused anthropology in counterinsurgency and propaganda campaigns and that military contractors were now hiring anthropologists for their local expertise as well.
 ''Those serving the short-term interests of military and intelligence agencies and contractors,'' he wrote in the June issue of Anthropology Today, an academic journal, ''will end up harming the entire discipline in the long run.''
 Arguing that her critics misunderstand the program and the military, Ms. McFate said other anthropologists were joining the teams. She said their goal was to help the military decrease conflict instead of provoking it, and she vehemently denied that the anthropologists collected intelligence for the military.
 In eastern Afghanistan, Tracy said wanted to reduce the use of heavy-handed military operations focused solely on killing insurgents, which she said alienated the population and created more insurgents. ''I can go back and enhance the military's understanding,'' she said, ''so that we don't make the same mistakes we did in Iraq.''
 Along with offering advice to commanders, she said, the five-member team creates a database of local leaders and tribes, as well as social problems, economic issues and political disputes. 
 Clinics and Mediation
 During the recent operation, as soldiers watched for suicide bombers, Tracy and Army medics held a free medical clinic. They said they hoped that providing medical care would show villagers that the Afghan government was improving their lives. 
 Civil affairs soldiers then tried to mediate between factions of the Zadran tribe about where to build a school. The Americans said they hoped that the school, which would serve children from both groups, might end a 70-year dispute between the groups over control of a mountain covered with lucrative timber.
 Though they praised the new program, Afghan and Western officials said it remained to be seen whether the weak Afghan government could maintain the gains. ''That's going to be the challenge, to fill the vacuum,'' said Mr. Gregg, the United Nations official. ''There's a question mark over whether the government has the ability to take advantage of the gains.''
 Others also question whether the overstretched American military and its NATO allies can keep up the pace of operations. 
 American officers expressed optimism. Many of those who had served in both Afghanistan and Iraq said they had more hope for Afghanistan. One officer said that the Iraqis had the tools to stabilize their country, like a potentially strong economy, but that they lacked the will. He said Afghans had the will, but lacked the tools.
 After six years of American promises, Afghans, too, appear to be waiting to see whether the Americans or the Taliban will win a protracted test of wills here. They said this summer was just one chapter in a potentially lengthy struggle.
 At a ''super jirga'' set up by Afghan and American commanders here, a member of the Afghan Parliament, Nader Khan Katawazai, laid out the challenge ahead to dozens of tribal elders.
 ''Operation Khyber was just for a few days,'' he said. ''The Taliban will emerge again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Afghan boy at a medical clinic set up by American Army medics and an anthropologist in the Shabak Valley in Afghanistan.(pg. A1)
 Tribal elders, above, in Afghanistan last month. Social scientists are helping the American military understand tribal relations. At an earlier meeting, left, rival tribes discussed a land dispute.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) MAP: Rival tribes and the Taliban unsettle the Shabak Valley. Map details area of SHABAK VALLEY, AFGHANISTAN. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (92%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); ROBERT M GATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); VIET NAM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



64 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: Art

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 ASIA SOCIETY: 'ZHANG HUAN: ALTERED STATES,' through Jan. 20. The Chinese artist Zhang Huan, the subject of this small, midcareer survey, is best known for the early, often poetic, sometimes sensationally masochistic performance work he did in the 1990s, which can only be seen in videos and photographs now. The objects in this show, which include giant fragments of Buddhist sculptures made from copper sheets and incense ash, are products of his new workshop-style studio in Shanghai. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org.
 (Holland Cotter) 
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ABSTRACT EXPRESSIONISM AND OTHER MODERN WORKS: THE MURIEL KALLIS STEINBERG NEWMAN COLLECTION,' through Feb. 3. One of the Met's most significant gifts of midcentury art, promised in 1980 and finalized last year, is taut and rich, reflective of a passionately discerning eye. Nearly everything is a standout, not just the rare de Kooning and the substantial Pollock, or works by Mark Rothko, Franz Kline, Claes Oldenburg and Jules Olitski. Max Ernst's portrait of Gala Eluard; sculptures by Giacometti and Jacques Lipchitz; paintings by Alfred Leslie and Mark Tobey; and a collage by Anne Ryan radiate an almost brazen self-sufficiency. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
 THE MET: 'DEPTH OF FIELD,' through March 23. The Met's recently acquired large-scale photographs finally have some room to breathe in the new Joyce and Robert Menschel Hall for Modern Photography, a high-ceilinged, gray-carpeted sanctuary on the second floor. Curators at MoMA need not worry: The inaugural installation (a sampler rather than a thematic slice) is dominated by white, mostly male Europeans and heavily weighted with references to history and landscape painting. Despite its limitations, ''Depth of Field'' is not a bad debut. We can also expect more from future installations, which will explore themes like ''photography about photography.'' (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (See above.) (Karen Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'PAINTED WITH WORDS: VINCENT VAN GOGH'S LETTERS TO EMILE BERNARD,' through Jan. 6. Words, ideas, sensations and images are packed into this exhibition, a manuscript display that is also something more than that. Although 20 handwritten letters from van Gogh to Bernard, a French artist and writer 15 years his junior, are at its center, they are surrounded by nearly two dozen van Gogh painting and drawings, among them a splendid self-portrait. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, www.morganlibrary.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'REPICTURING THE PAST/PICTURING THE PRESENT,' through Nov. 5. Modern and contemporary artists reconsider both the picture book and standard narrative in works that use mythology, history and current events as their source material. Several pieces, like those by Max Beckmann, Christian Boltanski and William Kentridge, mine the 20th century's major conflicts. Religion enters in a variety of guises, as in James Ensor's ''Entrance of Christ Into Brussels.'' The legacy of slavery is addressed in Glenn Ligon's lithographs and Kara Walker's ''Harper's Pictorial History of the Civil War (Annotated).'' (212) 708-9400, moma.org. 
 (Martha Schwendener)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'RUDOLF STINGEL,' through Oct. 14. The work of this Italian-born artist, who is based in New York, seduces the eye while also upending most notions of what, exactly, constitutes a painting, how it should be made and by whom. His grandly spare survey has a mirrored floor and a foil-covered room, lighted by a crystal chandelier, that visitors may mark on and that he may or may not later appropriate as a painting. As enthralling as it is perturbing, his work combines beauty, humor and a democratic slant with a rigorous sense of economy. It also forms one of the best-looking exhibitions seen lately at the Whitney. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith) 
 Galleries: Chelsea
 RAYMOND PETTIBON: 'HERE'S YOUR IRONY BACK (THE BIG PICTURE)' I love Raymond Pettibon all the time, but especially when he's mad, and he's mad as hell in this floor-to-ceiling display of splenetic and coruscating drawings about Middle East politics, Iraq and a world fueled by war culture. It's a great, brutal, hilarious show, a controlled explosion. David Zwirner, 519 West 19th Street, (212) 727-2070, www.davidzwirner.com, through Oct. 20. (Cotter)
 PETER SCHUYFF In his best show in some time, this former 1980s art star, currently based in Amsterdam, twists the high-low, art-craft, flat-spatial dualities of his earlier abstractions. In a manner reminiscent of the Situationist Asger Jorn, he adds fleshed-out Shuyffian motifs to found paintings of all varieties, and amends respectable old drawings with black and white de Stijlish designs. The results are amusing, disturbing and repellent. Nicole Klagsbrun, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 243-3335, nicoleklagsbrun.com, through Oct. 13. (Smith)
 RYAN TRECARTIN: 'I-BE AREA' Ryan Trecartin's 100-minute-long video, ''I-Be Area,'' has it all: four or five dynamic male-ish and female-ish characters, several complicated plots, constantly shifting locations and a fictional but real language of murderously barbed non sequiturs disguised in teenage prattle, as well as sculpture (the sets) and painting (mostly on faces). Mr. Trecartin himself acts the major roles, and he also directed, designed and edited the piece. The result is a new-feeling energy, jumpy and queer, with the unreal reality of YouTube. Elizabeth Dee Gallery, 545 West 20th Street, (212) 924-7545, elizabethdeegallery.com, through Oct. 13. (Cotter)
 ANDREA ZITTEL: 'SMOCKSHOP' This well-known, design-inclined artist has recast the art gallery as a small dress shop (with mirror and dressing room), out of which the art has been literally flying. Available for purchase are jumperlike double aprons based on garments that Ms. Zittel has worn for years -- usually one per season. Having been made by several different artist-smockers, the versions here vary tremendously, from plain to fancy, fluid to bulky, from wearable collage to wearable sculpture. Personal uniform, it turns out, is not at all an oxymoron. Susan Inglett Gallery, 534 West 22nd Street, (212) 647-9111, inglettgallery.com, through Oct. 13. (Smith)
 Last Chance
 SADIE BENNING: 'FORM OF A WATERFALL' Sadie Benning first gained recognition as a wunderkind in the early 1990s when she exhibited videos made with a toy Fisher-Price Pixelvision camera that drew on her experiences as a lesbian teenager. In recent years Ms. Benning, now 34, has been distancing herself from video. This current show includes abstract works made with colored pencil, and a turntable and vinyl albums recorded by Ms. Benning from which you can choose your own soundtrack for the show. This isn't the kind of exhibition that would get an unknown artist noticed, but it is an assured demonstration of Ms. Benning's ethos of self-determination and D.I.Y. process. Orchard, 47 Orchard Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1061, orchard47.org; closes on Sunday. (Schwendener)
 'DOCUMENTA 5' This art extravaganza first occurred in Kassel, Germany, 35 years before this summer's 12th incarnation, and its achievements tend to be shrouded in myth. As the first lavish international exhibition to play up Minimal and Conceptual art, it upset lots of people, including not a few Minimalists and Conceptualists. Centering on the first exhibition's distinctive orange three-ring catalog, this meticulous show revisits its publications, press coverage, controversies and various byproducts. It is highly educational and unexpectedly riveting. Specific Object, 601 West 26th Street, Room M285, Chelsea, (212) 242-6253, specificobject.com; closes on Monday. (Smith)
 DANA FRANKFORT: 'DF' In her disappointing Chelsea gallery show, this promising young artist continues to mine the busy intersection of painting and language. While she has expended a lot of her energy effectively developing her considerable instinct for color, her paint handling loses out. Harried and splintery, it suggests both a parody of expressionism and genuine emotional turmoil. A greater effort is needed. Bellwether, 134 10th Avenue, between 18th and 19th Streets, (212) 929-5959, bellwethergallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)
 KENT HENRICKSEN: 'DIVINE DEVILTRIES' In his second gallery show Kent Henricksen continues to orchestrate embroidery and gold leaf; decorative motifs; images from old books and prints; and racial, gender and religious politics into an impressive, exquisitely wrought package. The problem is that while the ambition is substantial, the parts are still too familiar. John Connelly Presents, 625 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 337-9563; closes tomorrow. (Smith)
 SEHER SHAH: 'JIHAD POP' This solo show by Seher Shah, who was born in Pakistan, focuses on the contradictions inherent in monumental symbols and the communality that underlies them: in a beautiful and intricate wall drawing, the black cube of the holy Kaaba in Mecca both opens to reveal a courtyard garden and unfolds to form a cross; Islamic ornament and graffiti become one. Other references are more difficult to read, but there's a lot going on here. Momenta Art, 359 Bedford Avenue, near South Fourth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-5058, momentaart.org; closes on Monday. (Cotter)
 ARLENE SHECHET: 'NEW WORK' This terrific show 23 years into a productive career offers evocative glazed ceramic vessel-sculptures. One group of elaborately bulbous, ostensibly monochrome forms conjures scholar's rocks, genie-sprouting lamps, hookahs and ungainly, if abstracted, dancers. Another meditates on the Japanese tea ceremony with fat, roughly scooped-out cylinders mottled with textures and colors. Throughout, multiple spouts conjure up pot handles, limbs and snouts, especially the trunk of Ganesh, the Hindu elephant god. Elizabeth Harris Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-9666, eharrisgallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)
 JEFF SHORE AND JOHN FISHER: REEL TO REEL Two talented Texas artists make their New York gallery debut with an elaborate kinetic-electronic video installation in which live video sequences emanate from five small cameras aimed at miniature sets and accompanied by a real-time sound track in which digital samples are arranged by custom algorithms. The circuitry lining the wall is part of the mesmerizing effect, which is a little like being inside a 21st-century music box that has its own movie screen. Clementine, 623 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-5937; closes tomorrow. (Smith)
 MAXIMILIAN TOTH: 'UNTIL THE YOUNG ARE HATCHED, FLEDGED AND FLOWN' The paintings in this young artist's solo debut look like giant anecdotal chalk drawings on blackboards. Kids horse around beside a seaside pier; toilet paper streamers hang from a tree on Halloween. And violence is ever present, in a bull-wresting contest, a Mardi Gras celebration with a shooting death, and in the midair meeting of a pair of eagles. Mr. Toth has a febrile hand and a good sense for off-center narrative, and he keeps things loose, a good sign. Fredericks & Freiser, 536 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 633-6555, fredericksfreisergallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); LIBRARIES (71%); WRITERS (60%); RELIGION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



65 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Surge in India's Markets Creates Some Overnight Global Giants

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Skyrocketing stock markets and a surging rupee are creating publicly traded behemoths in India. 
 These new giants have swiftly overtaken some long-established Western competitors, in terms of market value. Their lightning-fast growth may usher in a new round of foreign partnerships, overseas takeovers and competition for resources and talent. 
 Fueled in part by overseas investors seeking refuge from America's subprime mortgage mess, share prices in India's markets have outpaced other Asian markets in recent weeks. The Bombay Stock Exchange's Sensex index set records on 10 of the last 11 days, before closing slightly lower on Thursday at 17,777.14. 
 The Sensex is up 14.6 percent since Sept. 17. That follows months of somewhat slower gains -- the index is up 28.9 percent so far this year, according to Bloomberg Data, and up 102 percent (0r more than double) over the past 24 months.
 ''All of a sudden, India has these world-beating serious-market-cap companies across multiple sectors,'' said L. Brooks Entwistle, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs in India. The global ambitions of the companies ''continue to grow.'' 
 The real estate company DLF, for example, which had a $2.3 billion initial public offering in July, now has market capital of more than $37 billion -- making it roughly the size of Marriott International and Hilton Hotels combined. On Thursday, the company said it would consider overseas acquisitions and offshore fund-raising at its next board meeting. 
 Reliance Industries, the largest publicly traded company in India, reached a market cap of more than $85 billion this week, up from $6.5 billion in January 2003. Reliance, an oil, chemical and manufacturing company, is now about double the size of Dow Chemical. The market cap of Bharti Airtel, a telecommunications giant, nearly reached $46 billion this week, making it triple the size of Qwest and larger than Telecom Italia. 
 A strong rupee and weak dollar are also helping Indian companies look large compared with their overseas counterparts -- but their bulk is still predominantly a result of investor faith in India's long-term growth.
 A large increase in market capitalization does not necessarily mean the companies will go shopping for deals. Many Indian companies trade only on local exchanges, which means that the stock is not a viable currency to buy a foreign company. Even if they do plan to raise money overseas, few have huge trophy deals on their mind, bankers say. (Marriott, for example, is probably safe from the clutches of DLF.) 
 Indian companies are investing at home first, then looking abroad, said Chanda Kochhar, deputy managing director at ICICI Bank. ''The Indian corporate sector is talking of investing $500 billion in domestic projects in the country over the next three years,'' he said.
 Acquisitions are also being planned -- but not necessarily to acquire customers or clients, as they would be in developed economies, Ms. Kochhar said. Instead, companies are looking at buying suppliers (for example, a power producer would acquire coal mines) or distribution networks. Dozens of such deals are in the works, Ms. Kochhar said. 
 A large public market capitalization also makes Indian companies even stronger global competitors for everything from raw materials and talent to partnerships and clients. It attracts coverage from research analysts at international banks and brokerage firms, which in turn attracts more foreign investors. 
 In fact, a growing market capitalization can sometimes make it easier for companies to get even bigger. Indian companies that tried to raise small amounts of capital, say $10 million, on the equity markets in the past were passed over by most big foreign institutional investors, said Shriram Iyer, head of research at Edelweiss Securities in Mumbai. Now that they have grown, and are looking to raise $50 million or $100 million, ''it becomes a meaningful investment.'' 
 So far this year, Indian companies have issued $42.6 billion in debt and equity worldwide, according to Thomson Financial, up from $32 billion in 2006. In 2003, the amount was $5.8 billion.
 Chinese companies also jumped in market value as investors bought stock. But that growth has not translated into a boom in deals, in part, bankers say, because of foreign opposition to takeovers by state-run Chinese companies. 
 Indian companies can use a high share price in several ways, from making all-share acquisitions of cheaper value companies, to raising cash by stripping assets, to recruiting employees using shares as compensation, said Nilesh Jasani, an India strategist for Credit Suisse in Mumbai. 
 Indian companies may be smart to start translating their high public market values into other forms of collateral. There are constant concerns that Indian markets are overblown -- even within the Indian government. The finance minister, P. Chidambaram, warned this week that retail investors should use caution if entering the market, and do their homework or buy mutual funds instead. 
 Raising funds in the current credit cycle is not a cakewalk, no matter how well the markets are performing. 
 ''Indian companies and their global ambitions are not immune to what is going on in the credit markets globally,'' Mr. Entwistle said. They often rely on overseas financing to do deals, he said, and that needs to be taken into account before predicting any big takeovers. 
 Still, the mood in India is bullish. ''There aren't too many large acquisitions you can make within India, because there are no willing sellers,'' Mr. Iyer said. Instead, ''everyone wants to grow.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Keeping an eye on the ticker at the Bombay Stock Exchange. Its Sensex index has soared since Sept. 17. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: INDUSTRY GIANTS: The market capitalizations of some Indian companies now overshadow their European and American peers after record highs on Indian stock exchanges. (Sources: Factset
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (69%); PETROCHEMICALS (69%); CHEMICALS (68%); CHEMICALS MFG (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (56%); SUBPRIME LENDING (56%)

COMPANY: RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (82%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (54%); BHARTI AIRTEL LTD (53%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (53%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (52%); ICICI BANK LTD (50%)

TICKER: RIGD (LSE) (90%); RELIANCE (NSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); MAR (NYSE) (82%); BHARTIARTL (NSE) (53%); DOW (SWX) (53%); DOW (NYSE) (53%); DOW (LSE) (53%); 4850 (TSE) (53%); TIT (BIT) (52%); TI (NYSE) (52%); ICICIBANK (NSE) (50%); IBN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS313110 FIBER, YARN & THREAD MILLS (90%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (82%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (91%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (78%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



66 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Fall in Orders Is Steepest Since January

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Orders to factories fell in August by the largest amount in seven months, reflecting weakness across a wide swath of manufacturing as the turbulent financial markets made businesses more cautious. 
 The Commerce Department said Thursday that orders dropped by 3.3 percent in August, more than the expected 2.8 percent decline. It was the biggest setback since orders fell 4.2 percent in January.
 Demand for commercial aircraft fell 39.9 percent, leading the decline. Orders were also weak for other industries, from autos and home appliances to industrial machinery and steel.
 Orders for durable goods, which are items expected to last at least three years, fell by 4.9 percent. Demand for nondurable goods, like food and gasoline, declined 1.6 percent.
 In a troublesome sign, business demand for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft -- considered a good gauge for investment plans -- dropped 0.5 percent in August. This decline was partly attributed to greater caution among businesses in the face of the credit squeeze, which caused the stock market's turbulence in the late summer.
 Some economists are worried that the steepest housing slump in 16 years and the most severe credit squeeze in nearly a decade could push the country into a full-blown recession. But other analysts say the economy will muddle through without a serious downturn.
 ''The numbers look soft, but not recession-soft,'' said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York.
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said the number of newly laid-off workers filing claims for unemployment benefits rose by 16,000, to 317,000. It was the largest one-week rise in four months.
 Analysts say the unemployment rate probably rose in September to 4.7 percent, from 4.6 percent in August, although they are expecting that businesses added 100,000 jobs to their payrolls. That would be an improvement from the net loss of 4,000 jobs in August, the first monthly job loss in four years.
 The employment data for September is to be released on Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: FACTORY ORDERS: Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); DISMISSALS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



67 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Smoke Inhalation Cited in Colorado Deaths

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

DATELINE: DENVER, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The five workers who were killed by a fire at a hydroelectric plant near Georgetown, Colo., on Tuesday most likely died of smoke inhalation, officials say. 
 State and federal investigators have traced the fire at the plant to a heated device being used to mix an epoxy-based sealant inside a steep underground water tunnel where the men were working.
 On Thursday, investigators continued to pore over evidence at the plant, a process that could take months, said Herb Gibson, the Denver area director for the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration. 
 The agency released records late on Thursday showing that RPI Coating, a California-based contractor at the plant, had been fined 90 times since 1988 while operating under another name, Robison Prezioso Inc. The fines totaled $135,569, the agency said, and 27 of the violations were considered serious. 
 Rescue teams on Wednesday removed the workers' bodies from the 4,000-foot tunnel where the men had been trapped. The plant is operated by Xcel Energy and is hidden high in the mountains overlooking Georgetown, a rustic town about 45 miles west of Denver. 
 Late Wednesday, officials released the names of those killed, all of them Californians and employees of RPI, which had been hired by Xcel to do routine anticorrosion maintenance on the tunnel. The victims were Anthony Aguirre, 18; Donald Dejaynes, 43; Gary Foster, 48; Dupree Holt, 37; and James St. Peters, 52. 
 Among the many issues likely to be raised during the investigation will be RPI's troubled track record. 
 ''They have a history of citations with both state and federal OSHA,'' Mr. Gibson said. 
 One occurrence, in 2002, involved a scaffolding collapse on the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge that killed one RPI employee. 
 The company has also been fined hundreds of thousands of dollars in California and Hawaii for violating hazardous waste rules.
 Kate McGuire, a spokeswoman for the California Department of Industrial Relations, said it appeared that RPI's record had improved in California. Ms. McGuire said it had not had an accident in California in nearly four years. A spokesman for the company did not respond to repeated requests for comment. 
 Tom Henley, a spokesman for Xcel, would not say whether his company would review its relationship with RPI or the methods it uses to vet subcontractors. 
 ''The issue here is not safety at the Xcel Energy plant,'' Mr. Henley said. ''The company we hired was licensed and professional and an experienced company. They were the experts, and that's why they were hired.'' 
 But some people questioned Xcel's decision to contract with RPI, given its past problems. John Mendeloff, the director of the center for health and safety in the workplace at the RAND Corporation, said Xcel should have more carefully considered the company's extensive violations before hiring it. 
 ''I certainly think it would be a responsible kind of stewardship to do,'' Mr. Mendeloff said. ''Many companies often ask about OSHA inspections and citations, injury rates and fatalities. It doesn't seem like this company paid much attention to that.'' 
 Mr. Mendeloff said that in recent years, companies and regulators had become increasingly concerned about the safety operations of subcontractors, who are typically hired -- as in this case -- for specialized work. 
 ''They are bringing these people onto their work site,'' Mr. Mendeloff said. ''Even if they're not legally liable, they have some responsibility. What happens affects their own employees, too.'' 
 The trapped men were initially thought to be alive and uninjured, having climbed higher into the 12-foot-wide tunnel after the fire broke out below them. But radio contact with them was lost later in the day, and a rescue team from the nearby Henderson Mine entered the tunnel, battling heavy smoke as they moved up the shaft. The rescuers discovered the bodies a few hours later about 1,100 feet from where the men were when the fire broke out. 
 Four workers who escaped the fire from a bottom entrance to the tunnel were treated at a Denver hospital and released. Another worker, who was injured after entering the tunnel once the fire started, was also treated at the hospital and released. 
 Gov. Bill Ritter Jr. of Colorado traveled to the plant Thursday and met with family members of the dead workers, who had gathered in Georgetown.
 ''There is a great deal of sadness and a great deal of loss, both in terms of the type of loss and the number of victims,'' he said. ''This was a horrific way to die.''
 Mr. Ritter said he wanted to wait until state and federal authorities had concluded their investigations before determining whether new public policy was needed to address the accident.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FIRES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); FACTORY FIRES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (77%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (76%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (74%); MOUNTAINS (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%); XCEL ENERGY INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: XEL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



68 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Markets Inch Up Ahead of Jobs Data

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street finished a quiet session modestly higher yesterday as investors awaited the government's September employment report.
 Economic data released yesterday, which showed a rise in jobless claims and a drop in factory orders, gave investors little incentive to make big moves ahead of today's payrolls report.
 Wall Street appears optimistic that the Labor Department report will indicate a rebound from August's report, which showed a decline in payrolls and sent the Dow Jones industrial average down nearly 250 points the day it was released. 
 Since then, the Federal Reserve has lowered a crucial interest rate and the Dow has bounced back to where it was in mid-July, before the credit markets tightened up and caused stocks to fall sharply.
 Today's report is important because this year's relatively stable job market has been an important prop for the economy, helping to offset the housing slump and sluggish growth.
 ''The jobs report can be a real distraction for the market, and with good reason,'' said Alan Gayle, senior investment strategist at Trusco Capital Management. ''The number of people working, where they work, how much they get paid, tells us a whole lot about the economy.''
 While investors would like the Fed to lower rates again when it meets Oct. 30-31, hoping to encourage spending by making borrowing cheaper, they do not want the job market to weaken. 
 ''Obviously Fed rate cuts are good, but more earnings is always the best,'' Mr. Gayle said.
 Yesterday, the Dow rose 6.26, or 0.04 percent, to 13,974.31, after shooting to a record high Monday and then giving back a large chunk of its gains Tuesday and Wednesday.
 Broader stock indicators were also little changed on the day, which was notable for its low volume and muted volatility. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.25, or 0.21 percent, to 1,542.84, and the Nasdaq composite index advanced 4.14, or 0.15 percent, to 2,733.57. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 3 points, or 0.36 percent, to 829.15.
 The Labor Department said jobless claims rose 16,000, to 317,000, in the week ended Sept. 29, a bigger jump than analysts anticipated.
 The Commerce Department reported that orders to American factories fell in August by 3.3 percent, slightly worse than expected and the largest amount in seven months. Although the activity reflected in the report predates the Fed's rate cut, it still shows the degree to which the economy has been struggling.
 The dollar fell against most major world currencies, pushing gold higher.
 Crude oil futures settled higher for the first time in four sessions as investors weighed whether supplies were adequate to meet demand. Light crude for November delivery rose $1.50, to settle at $81.44 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 In corporate news, Bear Stearns fell 67 cents, to $127.61, after the company said it was laying off 310 workers associated with its mortgage operations. Executives said, however, that the firm's business was slowly rebounding after a turbulent summer. Bear Stearns, the investment bank most heavily exposed to the home loan market, booked big charges after two of its hedge funds that bet on mortgage debt imploded.
 Merrill Lynch fell $1.22, to $74.78, after a CIBC World Markets analyst cut her third-quarter earnings estimate for the company, predicting the tumult that swept through the credit markets this summer would erase $3 billion from the investment bank's revenue.
 The 10-year Treasury note rose 11/32, to 101 27/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.51 percent from 4.56 percent.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); US DOLLAR (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); CURRENCIES (74%); ENERGY MARKETS (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (71%)

COMPANY: RIDGEWORTH CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



69 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Can a Plucky U.S. Economy Surmount $80 Oil?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Oil prices, an economic scourge in decades past, have soared to record levels in recent years. But the fallout often seemed negligible: Americans kept spending; employment kept growing; factories, construction crews and retail stores stayed busy.
 Now, however, the economy may be starting to sputter as damage from the weak housing market drags down growth. If payrolls drop significantly, will high-price crude oil begin to cause pain in a way that it hasn't in nearly three decades? 
 Many economists do not think so, maintaining that if the United States entered a recession, the price of oil would quickly drop. 
 ''The United States is the single largest oil-consuming nation in the world,'' said Stephen P. A. Brown, director of energy economics at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. ''A slowdown here ought to bring the price of oil down.''
 That view is by no means unanimous. The global economy has been growing rapidly, and oil consumption overseas keeps rising. A few economists say it is possible that even if the American economy weakens, demand abroad will be strong enough to keep oil prices high.
 ''Our relative importance in the global markets is diminishing,'' said Larry Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York. An American economic slowdown, he said, ''won't have a visible impact on high oil demand and it won't have a visible impact on high oil prices.''
 If that view proves to be right, the United States could conceivably find itself in a situation reminiscent of the 1970s, with weak economic growth and high-price oil taking a double bite out of consumers' pocketbooks.
 The situation is murky in part because there is little historical precedent for understanding today's oil market. Less than a decade ago, oil fell below $11 a barrel. Oil at $50 was a distant prospect, and the prevailing wisdom was that a run-up of that extent would do serious economic damage.
 But as the global economy boomed, oil blew past $50 late in 2004, then past $60 in mid-2005. Many Americans complained about the rising price of gasoline, but the economy shrugged off pump prices that would exceed $3 a gallon, and kept growing. 
 On Sept. 20, crude oil for next-month delivery settled at a record price of $83.32 a barrel and has stayed above $80 most days since, ending yesterday at $81.44, up $1.50 from Wednesday. (Adjusted for inflation, the record high for oil was nearly $102 a barrel early in 1980, after the Iranian revolution, but that price level did not last long.)
 Part of the reason that costly oil has not done too much damage, it seems clear, is that the economy has become less sensitive to energy prices than it was in the 1970s. 
 Two important trends reinforced each other, economists say. Driven by higher prices, many industries became more efficient in their use of fuel. And services, which require less energy than manufacturing, became a far bigger share of the economy. Over all, the amount of energy needed to produce $1 of economic output has been cut nearly in half since 1980, Energy Department figures show.
 Some economists do say that high-price oil has been a strain on the economy in the last few years. But the effect may have been to shave a bit off an otherwise healthy growth rate, so the impact, they say, has been hard to see.
 ''High oil prices slow economic activity, but they came at the most opportune time they could come,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''Consumers were in the best position to absorb the high-price shock.'' 
 Some businesses, particularly in transportation, have had a marked rise in costs because of expensive crude oil. When they were able to stay ahead, it was because of the strong growth in their markets.
 Airlines worldwide expect to spend $132 billion for jet fuel this year, up from $40 billion in 2002. The industry estimates that the share of operating costs devoted to fuel has doubled in six years.
 Similarly, the American trucking industry expects to spend $107 billion on diesel fuel this year, up from $45 billion in 2002. This means that fuel eats up nearly twice as much of the industry's annual revenue, but a boom in business has protected the bottom line. ''Had this happened 10 years ago, the industry would have been decimated,'' said Bob Costello, chief economist at the American Trucking Associations, a trade group.
 With expensive gasoline already taking money out of consumers' pockets, some worry that a recession would cause them to cut back even more. But economists say that if there was to be a recession, oil prices could fall quickly enough to give consumers some relief.
 The United States still accounts for nearly a quarter of the world oil market, despite the fast pace of global economic growth. China's share has grown steadily for more than a decade, a major factor driving up prices. But China still uses less than 9 percent of the world's oil.
 The United States ''is still the biggest economy in the world,'' said Brian Pearce, chief economist for the International Air Transport Association ''I'm not expecting to see oil prices back where they were in 2002, by no means. But I think if there is a sharp U.S. slowdown, that will bring oil prices off.''
 What about the possibility that continued growth abroad will send oil prices higher, perhaps enough to increase the risk of recession in the United States?
 Economists and oil executives say they do not see market fundamentals that would cause that anytime soon. ''Most people that are doing long-term planning in the oil business are using a crude price somewhere around $60 a barrel,'' said Lynn Westfall, chief economist of the Tesoro Corporation, a leading refiner.
 But they concede that a political crisis, accompanied by potential supply disruptions, could be enough to send oil past the psychologically important $100 mark -- if only briefly.
 ''If there was a war between Iran and the West, the price of oil could go very high,'' Mr. Brown of the Dallas Fed said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Recent high prices of crude oil underlined American dependence on gasoline. On roads like this Los Angeles-area freeway, traffic jams are not limited to rush hour. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. C4)
Gas prices varied last month, breaching $4 for full service in Menlo Park, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C1) CHART: NO LONGER SO SHOCKING: In the past, sharp rises in oil prices helped push the American economy into recession. But lately the economy has absorbed the shock of high oil prices without losing much of its stride. (Sources: Energy Information Administration
Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Haver Analytics) Chart showing high oil prices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



70 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1100 words

BYLINE: By WENDY MOONAN

 BODY:
INFUSING NEW LIFE 
 Into a Fabled Armory
 Long before it was the site of art and antiques fairs, the Seventh Regiment Armory at Park Avenue and 67th Street was Manhattan's living room. It was where Milton Berle performed comic skits, children competed in athletic games, and suffragists convened to talk.
 The imposing brick building, which occupies a full city block, played host to scores of public events, grand, glorious and sad. Completed in 1881, the armory was used for music festivals, tennis matches, charity balls, funerals and, yes, even military exercises for the swell, silk-stockinged Seventh Regiment.
 This week the armory opened ''The Park Avenue Armory: A Century of Culture, Competition and Ceremony,'' an exhibition that chronicles its largely unknown history. Nina Gray, an independent New York curator and expert on the Aesthetic Movement, studied hundreds of historical photos, cartoons, etchings, drawings and posters before settling on the show's four themes: benefits and balls, sports matches, arts and entertainment, drills and dignitaries. 
 ''Not everyone is interested in everything,'' she said, explaining the range of the show, which continues through Feb. 24. It is open during the hours of events at the armory, like the International Art and Design Fair, which opens today and continues through Wednesday. (Review, Page 41.)
 As one of the largest interior spaces in the city -- 200 feet wide by 300 feet long, with an 80-foot-high barrel vault -- the armory's Drill Hall can accommodate hundreds of people, including the soldiers seen in the 1946 photo titled ''Operation Stork.'' After the war American soldiers who had married in Europe returned to New York on military transport ships. Their European wives followed on the Queen Mary. They were reunited at the armory. The photo shows the couples embracing, as nurses hold the babies born during the war.
 ''Nurses held the babies while the soldiers were greeting their wives, so they could get a good hug and kiss,'' Ms. Gray said.
 As the show makes clear, the armory has a long tradition of debutante parties and charity events. One photo from 1933 shows a beaming Eleanor Roosevelt (as guest of honor) attending a ball -- 10,000 attended -- to benefit unemployed women. For the Martian Ball in 1935, the drill hall was decorated as the planet Mars, with seas of gigantic mushrooms. A rocket ship was suspended from the ceiling.
 In 1937 the drill hall became a radio soundstage for a reading of the poet Archibald MacLeish's ''Fall of the City.'' It was the second collaboration between the 21-year-old Orson Welles and MacLeish; Welles narrated this tale of a future war with the actor Burgess Meredith.
 In the 1970s the armory held tennis matches with stars like Pancho Gonzales, Vitas Gerulaitis, Jimmy Connors and Ilie Nastase.
 The exhibition was organized to bring the general public into the armory and to raise consciousness about its needs. Last December the Seventh Regiment Armory Conservancy took over the management of the 180,000-square-foot building, now renamed the Park Avenue Armory. Working with Samuel G. White, a restoration architect at Platt Byard Dovell White, the conservancy has begun an extensive renovation. The armory's exterior has been steam-cleaned and the canopy removed to better reveal the massive bronze gates (also painstakingly cleaned) and the newly refurbished blond oak entry doors (each 800 pounds).
 ''Doing the doors first was symbolic,'' said Rebecca Robertson, president of the conservancy, who said it was trying to renew the armory's role as a center for culture and innovation. ''This space is unique in New York. It provides the opportunity to have work here -- performance, music, art -- that wouldn't otherwise come to New York.'' 
 Both she and Mr. White are passionate about the ornate regiment rooms in the 110,000-square-foot administration wing. (Each company in the regiment had its own meeting room and hired its own decorator.) Louis Comfort Tiffany and the Associated Artists, Pottier & Stymus, the Herter Brothers and Kimbel & Cabus are among the pre-eminent designers who created these high-style rooms, with no expense spared. 
 ''This building is full of surprises,'' said Mr. White, whose firm is assessing the building's critical problems and making accurate architectural drawings to replace the lost originals. Interim projects, like new electrical lines and air-conditioning, are under way. 
 Of the $200 million needed, Ms. Robertson said the conservancy has so far raised $30 million from New York State, $10 million from the City of New York and $40 million from its board. 
 ANATOMY LESSONS
 Christie's is conducting a sale today of ''Anatomy as Art: The Dean Edell Collection,'' with 229 lots (rare books, prints, drawings, anatomical models and works of art) that trace the history of anatomical art from the 16th century to today. 
 The sale, estimated to realize $1.5 million to $2 million, includes drawings by Leonardo da Vinci and woodcuts by Albrecht Durer, as well as a first-edition 1543 copy of Andreas Vesalius's ''De humani corporis fabrica libri septem,'' considered the first grand atlas with accurate depictions of the body.
 ''The reaction to the sale has been strong,'' said Thomas Lecky, the head specialist of the books and manuscripts department at Christie's New York. ''There hasn't been a large single-owner medical collection on the market for three or four years.'' 
 Dr. Edell practiced as a surgeon in California until 1973, when he retired to write books, including the best seller ''Eat, Drink and Be Merry.'' He also collects antiques, farms organically and is the host of a syndicated radio talk show about health, ''The Dr. Dean Edell Show.''
 A confessed failed artist, Dr. Edell finds beauty in all kinds of anatomy, both in art and in life. ''I love the pathology,'' he said. ''Even skin rashes can be gorgeous if you step back.''
 After 40 years, Dr. Edell said, he is selling his collection because ''the time is right; people are ready to see their bodies as beautiful.''
 Dr. Eugene Flamm, a collector of 15th- and 16th-century illustrated medical books, called the sale rare in its mixing of Japanese and Western illustrations. ''The Japanese works may not have anatomical accuracy,'' he said, ''but they are beautiful to look at.'' 
 Noting that many of the books in the Edell sale were auctioned in Christie's three-part sale of the Haskell Norman collection in 1998, Dr. Flamm said, ''The Edell sale will show whether there still is interest in anatomy, or whether the market is thin.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A performance in 1881 at the Seventh Regiment Armory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARPER'S WEEKLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (75%); TENNIS (75%); SPORTS (75%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); CHARITIES (75%); HISTORY (74%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); MUSIC (70%); MARINE VESSELS (68%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (64%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); NURSES & NURSING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); MARS (66%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



71 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Central Bank Holds Main Rate Steady

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: VIENNA, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The European Central Bank stuck by its upbeat view of the region's economy on Thursday, leaving interest rates steady and indicating that more time was needed to assess the fallout of the credit squeeze that has roiled financial markets for months.
 The president of the bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, also declined to utter a word that might influence currency markets and hinted that a similar stance would be appropriate for politicians who have been calling for action to curb the rising euro. 
 ''The exchange rate is a very important question that calls for verbal discipline,'' Mr. Trichet said at a news conference in Vienna after one of the two meetings the bank holds each year away from its Frankfurt headquarters.
 The central bank kept its main interest rate at 4 percent. In response, the euro barely budged, hovering around $1.41, just shy of the record level hit early this week.
 In London, the Bank of England also kept official interest rates steady at 5.75 percent, offering no explanation. But the pound rose as some investors had worried that it might make a surprise cut after a run on Northern Rock, a mortgage bank, last month.
 Recent surveys have shown shakier consumer and business confidence in Europe in the wake of the credit market turmoil, which has led to emergency rescues at two German banks and one in Britain. But Mr. Trichet focused on an economy that still seems to be expanding at a healthy, though not spectacular, rate of slightly more than 2 percent a year.
 ''Corporate earnings and profitability have been sustained, employment growth has been robust and unemployment has fallen,'' Mr. Trichet said.
 Numerous European politicians, including Prime Minister Romano Prodi of Italy, the government of President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Jean-Claude Juncker, chairman of the grouping of euro-zone finance ministers, have expressed concern that the strong euro will cut into European exports.
 Mr. Sarkozy has even suggested that the central bank follow the Federal Reserve's surprise cut in interest rates last month.
 Mr. Trichet only repeated the message that the Group of 7 central bankers and finance ministers made public at a meeting earlier this year, namely that the United States still has a ''strong dollar'' policy. With financial markets skeptical that the Bush administration wholeheartedly backs this policy, the message has barely altered the euro's upward trend against the dollar.
 One month after it abandoned a planned increase in borrowing costs in the face of credit market chaos, the European Central Bank gave little indication of when -- or if -- it would resume lifting its benchmark rate. But Mr. Trichet did make clear that the bank's next rate move was more likely to be up rather than down.
 Under the treaties that created the euro, the bank's chief priority is to fight inflation, which is now edging above 2 percent because of higher oil and food prices, slightly above the bank's comfort zone. 
 Over the last two years, the bank has steadily raised rates to ensure that accelerating growth does not lead to a spiral of rising prices as companies pass on the costs of more expensive raw materials to consumers or bid up the price of labor amid falling unemployment -- dangers that Mr. Trichet said were still very much present in the euro area.
 In its monthly statement, the bank did drop a reference to interest rates being ''on the accommodative side,'' a sign that it has finished tightening credit. But Mr. Trichet repeatedly emphasized that the bank ''stands ready to act'' to ward off higher inflation with higher rates, even though it is clearly pausing to gather more information about the effects of the credit squeeze.
 ''As long as they are concerned about inflation, it doesn't really matter how they characterize their stance on interest rates,'' said Elga Bartsch, an economist with Morgan Stanley in London. ''But they are on hold for now.''
 One reason the bank may have altered its trajectory on interest rates is that credit markets have done the bank's job for it over the last two months, economists said. As nervous banks and investors have curbed their lending, they have forced up the cost of borrowing, effectively creating the tighter credit conditions that central banks use to keep inflation under control.
 Still, the bank has to preserve its options in case the outlook for inflation worsens -- an entirely plausible event given escalating oil and commodity prices -- while bearing in mind that higher interest rates could worsen the credit squeeze and hurt manufacturers and other companies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The European Central Bank officials Lucas D. Papademos, left, and Pierre van de Haegen, right, with the bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, before their meeting in Vienna yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY BARBARA GINDL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); BRITISH POUND (71%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (89%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%); ROMANO PRODI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



72 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 Bill Would Put Contractors In Iraq Under U.S. Law
 With private contractors in Iraq facing tighter scrutiny, the House of Representatives approved a bill that would bring all United States government contractors in the war zone under the jurisdiction of American criminal law. A1 
 A military investigator has recommended dropping murder charges against a Marine infantryman charged with killing apparently unarmed Iraqis in Haditha, a defense lawyer in the case said. A15 
 Anthropology Guides Army
 An experimental Pentagon program that assigns anthropologists and other social scientists to American combat units in Afghanistan and Iraq has become a crucial new weapon in counterinsurgency operations. A1 
 Pakistan Accord Reached
 The government of Gen. Pervez Musharraf, left, announced an accord that includes amnesty for the opposition leader, Benazir Bhutto, clearing the way for the general to run for re-election as president and for Ms. Bhutto to return to Pakistan for parliamentary elections. A15 
 NATIONALA16-23 
 Senator Defies G.O.P. And Remains in Post
 Senator Larry E. Craig of Idaho, defying the wishes of many in his own Republican Party, said he would remain in the Senate through next year despite a court ruling against him in Minnesota, where he sought to rescind his guilty plea stemming from an undercover sex sting. A1 
 Debate Over Interrogation
 The disclosure of secret Justice Department legal opinions on interrogation set off a new, acrimonious round of debate over the treatment of suspected terrorists in American custody and whether Congress has been adequately informed of the administration's legal policies. A1 Candidates Back Bush Veto
 The four leading Republican presidential candidates have aligned themselves with President Bush's veto of an expanded health insurance program for children. A22 
 Inquiry on Colorado Plant Fire
 The five workers killed by a fire at a hydroelectric plant near Georgetown, Colo., most likely died from smoke inhalation, officials said. A18 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-5
 On His Old Radio Show, Another Giuliani Is Heard
 Rudolph W. Giuliani, Republican presidential candidate, is a pasteurized fellow who favors reasoned talk and self-deprecating humor. But to listen to his old radio show, which ran from 1994 to 2001 while he was mayor of New York, is to hear the uncensored and unbowed Mr. Giuliani, an irascible figure familiar to New Yorkers.A1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-12 
 Oil and the Economy
 If one view proves correct, the United States could find itself in an economic situation reminiscent of the 1970s, with weak growth and costly oil taking a bite out of consumers' pocketbooks. C1 
 Business DigestC2 
 EDITORIALA24-25
 Editorials: Misleading spin on children's health; sovereignty and limits for Kosovo; common sense and credit cards; the angriest justice.
 Columns: Paul Krugman and David Brooks.
 OBITUARIESB6
 Ned Sherrin
 A producer who defied staid British standards with barbed, up-to-the-minute mockery of the powerful his groundbreaking TV show ''That Was The Week That Was,'' he was 76. B6 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); VETO (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (75%); LAWYERS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); AMNESTY (72%); TERRORISM (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (63%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (63%); POWER PLANTS (63%); FACTORY FIRES (63%); MURDER (57%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (75%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (68%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); LARRY CRAIG (57%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (57%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



73 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Romney Criticizes Giuliani On Fiscal and Social Issues

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney leveled some of his sharpest criticism yet at his Republican rival Rudolph W. Giuliani on Thursday, questioning Mr. Giuliani's fiscal conservative credentials and even his electability given his liberal views on social issues.
 Mr. Romney's criticism came as the leading Republican presidential candidates announced their third quarter fund-raising totals, with Mr. Giuliani edging out Mr. Romney but with Fred D. Thompson not far behind. Mr. Romney also revealed that he had lent his campaign an additional $8.5 million of his own money.
 Campaigning in southern New Hampshire on Thursday, Mr. Romney criticized Mr. Giuliani for opposing a presidential line item veto as mayor of New York and supporting a commuter tax in the city. 
 He also challenged a pillar of Mr. Giuliani's candidacy, his electability, arguing that the former mayor's views on social issues would make it impossible for him to rally Republicans in the November 2008 election.
 Mr. Romney has portrayed himself as the conservative alternative to Mr. Giuliani, who continues to lead the Republican field in national polls. But Mr. Giuliani's advisers fiercely contend he is the true fiscal conservative in the race. 
 In a sign of the tightening competition some 90 days before the New Hampshire primary, Mr. Romney's comments brought a quick response from Mr. Giuliani's campaign. 
 Mr. Giuliani's advisers quickly set up a conference call for reporters with Paul Celluci, a former Massachusetts governor and a surrogate for the campaign, who called the jabs from Mr. Romney a sign of ''desperation.'' 
 Mr. Celluci also attacked Mr. Romney's fiscal record as governor of Massachusetts and praised tax cuts Mr. Giuliani made in New York City.
 Mr. Romney's latest infusion of cash into his campaign brought the total he has lent to his presidential bid to over $17 million. It underscores both the continuing impact that his vast personal fortune, estimated at up to $350 million, has made on the race and the hurdles he still must overcome.
 Mr. Giuliani brought in $10.5 million in primary money for the third quarter, compared with Mr. Romney's $10 million. Mr. Giuliani also raised $500,000 for the general election. More significantly, his campaign said that he finished the third quarter, which ended on Sept. 30, with $16 million in cash on hand, including more than $11 million for the primary, compared with $9 million for Mr. Romney.
 Mr. Giuliani has been husbanding his resources, not yet broadcasting any television commercials, while Mr. Romney has plowed more than $8 million into advertisements, mostly in early voting states. He would not have been able to spend so much if he had not added his own money.
 In contrast, Senator John McCain announced Thursday that he had raised $5.55 million for the primary and $450,000 for the general election, leaving him with $3.6 million in the bank. Mr. McCain had started the quarter with his organization close to broke and still has $1.5 million in debt to pay off.
 Mr. Thompson, a late entrant in the race, said he had raised $9.3 million for the primary in the third quarter and had about $7 million in the bank.
 Mr. Romney has been pouring resources into Iowa and New Hampshire, where he campaigned Thursday against a backdrop of recent polls that show support for him slipping in the state, with Mr. Giuliani closing the gap and Mr. McCain not far behind. 
 Mr. Romney's criticism of Mr. Giuliani came when an audience member at a forum at St. Anselm College here asked him to explain the difference between him and Mr. Giuliani on fiscal issues. Having recently engaged Mr. Giuliani on illegal immigration, Mr. Romney bore in anew on Thursday, saying he believed strongly in the line item veto as a tool for fiscal restraint. 
 But, he said, when President Bill Clinton obtained the line item veto, Mr. Giuliani, as mayor of New York, filed a lawsuit that went all the way to the Supreme Court, where it was struck down.
 ''Because he won, he killed the line item veto,'' Mr. Romney said. ''That was a serious mistake.''
 Mr. Giuliani had joined hospitals and health care workers in the late 1990s in challenging Mr. Clinton's use of the line item veto to eliminate Medicaid benefits for New York. 
 Mr. Romney also criticized Mr. Giuliani for fighting to save a commuter tax that was repealed by the state Legislature, calling it an ''outrage.'' ''And the Republican governor, George Pataki, said we've got to get rid of that commuter tax,'' Mr. Romney said, ''so he fought to get rid of it, and Mayor Giuliani sued the Republican governor to keep in place the commuter tax.''
 The commuter tax had been a major source of income for New York City, so when it was eliminated in 1999, Mr. Giuliani unsuccessfully sued the state to reinstate it. During the conference call on Thursday, however, Mr. Celluci played down Mr. Giuliani's support for the tax, saying he had different priorities. 
 ''He had 23 tax cuts, broad-based tax cuts, that reduced the tax burden of New York City by 17 percent,'' Mr. Celluci said. Mr. Celluci also said that Mr. Giuliani supports a presidential line item veto but believes that a constitutional amendment must be passed.
 After the forum, Mr. Romney let fly again while speaking to reporters, zeroing in on Mr. Giuliani's stances on social issues, saying that support from ''defense conservatives, economic conservatives and social conservatives'' -- he called them ''three legs of the stool'' -- were all needed for a Republican to win the presidency in 2008.
 ''The only way we're going to win the White House is with a coalition of conservatives hanging together,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney, who is seeking the Republican presidential nomination, addressed a group yesterday in Merrimack, N.H. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TAX LAW (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (77%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



74 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: In the Bronx, Blight Gave Way to Renewal

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The cream-colored limousine pulled to a stop on Charlotte Street. It was not so much a street but a remnant of one, lined with barren lots, abandoned buildings and eight-foot-high piles of bulldozed bricks. President Jimmy Carter stepped from the limousine and walked around, his hands in his pockets, trailed by reporters, officials and Secret Service agents.
 One day after discussing nuclear disarmament at the United Nations, Mr. Carter had decided to take a sudden trip to the urban slums of the South Bronx. A stretch of Charlotte Street near Boston Road was the motorcade's second stop of the day. 
 ''See which areas can still be salvaged,'' President Carter told Patricia Roberts Harris, the secretary of the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, as The New York Times reported. ''Maybe we can create a recreation area and turn it around.''
 The president's visit to the South Bronx on Oct. 5, 1977, was 30 years ago today. No formal ceremonies will mark the anniversary. On Charlotte Street these days, the tranquil rhythm of neighborhood life is its own quiet tribute.
 Walk on Charlotte Street now and you will find suburban-style ranch houses with small yet pampered front lawns. One resident keeps a hammock in the backyard; another dotes over his apple, pear, peach, plum and cherry trees. Robert Mitchell, 69, a retired bus driver, spends his days relaxing with his wife, Artie Mae Mitchell, also 69. The framed photos on the wall over the dining table tell the story of their lives; a plate over the kitchen sink tells the motto: ''Worry is like a rocking chair. Keeps you busy, but never gets you anywhere.''
 Change is the everlasting story of New York City, but few streets have illustrated the city's capacity for destruction and rejuvenation like Charlotte Street. On the desolate land that Mr. Carter walked 30 years ago are houses like the Mitchells', now worth $500,000. Early one recent evening, you could hear the sounds of a water sprinkler, birds chirping, the low rattle of the elevated train in the distance and little else.
 Mr. Carter's visit did not revive the area by itself, but people in the South Bronx say it created a much-needed spark and drew the world's attention to a borough that was not only burning, as Howard Cosell famously informed viewers during a World Series game that October, but seemed to be dying, too. 
 ''What I recall more than anything else was the uncertainty,'' said Jose E. Serrano, the Bronx congressman whose district includes Charlotte Street and who was a state assemblyman in 1977. ''Of not knowing when the building was going to burn, when the landlord was going to cut back services, when you find yourself in a building that the landlord totally walks away from. The housing stock was going to waste and abandon.''
 Charlotte Street had been a working-class Jewish enclave in the years before World War II. By the 1970s, it was the victim of arson fires, rampant crime, a lack of city services and abandonment and neglect by landlords. It had almost become invisible: Part of the street was taken off the city map in 1974 and did not reappear until a decade later, according to the Bronx borough president's office.
 It took years for an informal coalition of neighborhood activists and clergy, community development groups and local, state and federal officials to rebuild Charlotte Street and other areas of the South Bronx. Thousands of residences were developed using public subsidies, city-donated land and tax abatements.
 After his trip, Mr. Carter was criticized for the slow pace of renewal. In 1980, during his presidential campaign, Ronald Reagan stood on Charlotte Street and said Mr. Carter had not fulfilled his promises. Mr. Reagan was one of several political figures to use the street as a backdrop over the years. President Clinton went there twice: in 1997 and again in 2005.
 Tour groups still visit the street. Lloyd Ultan, the Bronx borough historian, often takes people there, but he has had trouble locating the exact area on Charlotte Street near Boston Road where Mr. Carter walked in some of the iconic photographs. There was too much rubble and emptiness back then. ''It's difficult to pinpoint a spot in the desert,'' Mr. Ultan explained.
 Residents on Charlotte Street have become used to living on what amounts to one of the most popular tourist attractions in the South Bronx. David Ramos, 20, and his brother Joshua, 16, live on Charlotte Street with their grandparents, and in a hallway of their house they keep a framed picture of them shaking President Clinton's hand in 1997. When Mr. Clinton returned in 2005, he wrote a message to Joshua in a corner of the photo: ''Good to see you again.''
 ''It's hard to visualize this with no houses,'' David Ramos said. ''That's hard to believe.''
 Today, Charlotte Street feels not so much like the southern Bronx but Long Island. Now primarily a mix of Asian, African-American and Latino families, it is a sleepy three-blocks lined with clean sidewalks and white-painted wrought iron fences. There are worn welcome mats at the front doors and pink flamingo and chipmunk ornaments in the yards.
 The Mitchells moved into their prefabricated house in 1985. The single-family homes were part of the Charlotte Gardens development, the construction of which was overseen by the South Bronx Development Organization, an agency created by the city. The Mitchells bought their house for $52,600 and paid off their mortgage in 11 years. They live there with two of their four children, content and proud of their space on historic Bronx land.
 ''We have the suburb in the city,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''And it's been that way from day one.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert and Artie Mae Mitchell bought their home on Charlotte Street, top, for $52,600 in 1985. Some homes there have been valued at $500,000. Visiting in 1977, President Carter spoke with people in the neighborhood. They say his presence drew much-needed attention to the area (pg. B4)
Charlotte Street today. In the 1970s, it was beset by crime, fires and neglect. By the 1980s, new residents were moving into ranch-style houses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B1)
 President Jimmy Carter toured the decaying landscape of Charlotte Street on Oct. 5, 1977. ''See which areas can still be salvaged,'' he told his housing chief. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TERESA ZABALA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B1) MAP: Charlotte Street draws tour groups to the South Bronx. (pg. B4) Map of Charlotte Street in the Bronx. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); CITIES (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); SUBURBS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (90%); JOSE E SERRANO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



75 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Says She Would Shield Science From Politics

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
In a stinging critique of Bush administration science policy, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York said yesterday that if she were elected president she would require agency directors to show they were protecting science research from ''political pressure'' and that she would lift federal limits on stem cell research. 
 Mrs. Clinton, a leading Democratic presidential candidate, also committed herself to a space-based climate research project to combat global warming and pledged to spend $50 billion on fighting climate change and finding energy alternatives to foreign oil. 
 In a speech laying out her campaign's science agenda, Mrs. Clinton spoke of the need for a ''robust'' program of human exploration of space. 
 But in a telephone interview afterward, she said that in the short term she would subordinate Bush administration proposals for human exploration of the Moon and Mars to restoring cuts in aeronautics research and space-based studies of climate change and other earth science issues. 
 Travel to the Moon or Mars ''excites people,'' she said, ''but I am more focused on nearer-term goals I think are achievable.''
 Her remarks yesterday, at the Carnegie Institution of Washington, amounted to a spirited attack on President Bush for waging what she called a ''war on science'' that has allowed political appointees to shape and in some cases distort science-based federal reports.
 Mrs. Clinton said she would restore the office of White House science adviser to the higher status it held in the administrations of her husband and President Bush's father. And she said she would encourage Congress to revive its Office of Technology Assessment, an advisory group that was shut down in 1995 after Republicans in Congress withdrew its financing.
 In the telephone interview after the speech, Mrs. Clinton also tacitly criticized opponents of evolution. Some of the 2008 Republican presidential candidates have said flatly that they do not believe in evolution, while other Republican contenders have said they support teaching evolution, intelligent design and creationist ideas.
 ''I believe in evolution, and I am shocked at some of the things that people in public life have been saying,'' Mrs. Clinton said in the interview. ''I believe that our founders had faith in reason and they also had faith in God, and one of our gifts from God is the ability to reason.''
 ''I am grateful that I have the ability to look at dinosaur bones and draw my own conclusions,'' she added, saying, too, that antibiotic-resistant bacteria is evidence that ''evolution is going on as we speak.''
 The Clinton attack on White House science policy is not especially new; Mrs. Clinton has used the phrase ''war on science'' frequently on the campaign trail, and it has reliably drawn applause from Democratic audiences. She has also indicated before that she would reverse the financing restriction on stem cell research and, more broadly, would stand against politicizing science.
 But in her speech and the telephone interview, she sought to lay out her agenda in what one adviser called ''a contest of ideas'' with her Democratic rivals, who have been increasingly delivering more policy speeches in hopes of winning voters with big ideas that counter nearly seven years of Bush administration policy.
 ''When science is politicized, it is worse than wrong,'' she said in the interview. ''It is dangerous -- dangerous for our democracy.''
 Moreover, she said, ''it is holding us back economically,'' as other countries move forward in research in areas like stem cells and alternative energy, ''creating high-wage jobs.''
 The Bush White House has been dogged by complaints from scientists in and out of government, including some of its own appointees, that it has ignored, contorted or suppressed work by government scientists if they contradict administration views, particularly in areas like climate.
 Others complain that the administration has made science policy decisions on grounds that are not scientific. In particular, critics cite the president's decision, in August 2001, to limit federal financing for research involving human embryonic stem cells to cell lines already in use at the time.
 The research is thought to have great potential in developing treatments for a range of diseases, but opponents of abortion rights object to it, because the cells are produced through the destruction of human embryos.
 ''We have to be steered by values and morals,'' Mrs. Clinton said yesterday, and she pointed to guidelines drawn up by the National Institutes of Health during her husband's administration as a kind of ''ethical framework'' through which such work could advance. 
 For example, she said, the use of embryonic stem cells to create tissue whose DNA is identical to that of an ailing person, a process called therapeutic cloning, ''is within the ethical framework.''
 Danny Diaz, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee, chided Mrs. Clinton for saying that she would take politics out of science, contending that her record is replete with political manipulations.
 ''Hillary Clinton says she will bring integrity to science, but on the campaign trail she manipulates basic mathematics in her attempts to explain how she will pay for hundreds of billions of dollars in new spending,'' Mr. Diaz said. He also noted that Mr. Bush had made federal money available for stem cell research. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said yesterday in Washington that she would promote research on stem cells and climate change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CREATIONISM (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (77%); BACTERIA (77%); ANTIBIOTICS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); EVOLUTION THEORY (67%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (66%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (50%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON (68%)

ORGANIZATION: CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



76 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Myanmar Junta Admits Mass Arrests

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
For the first time, Myanmar's military rulers late Thursday acknowledged mass detentions in their brutal crackdown on protesters, saying that about 1,400 people were being held. They also made a heavily qualified offer to meet with the pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. 
 The junta offered to hold talks with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, but only if she abandoned her attitude of ''confrontation'' and repealed her call for foreign sanctions against the country. The announcement was made on the nightly radio and television newscasts, which are monitored by news agencies. 
 State news media said that during a meeting in Myanmar this week, Senior Gen. Than Shwe, the leader of the junta, told Ibrahim Gambari, the United Nations envoy, that Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi ''has called for confrontation, utter devastation, economic sanctions and all other sanctions.''
 If she ''announces publicly she has given up these four things, he would hold direct talks'' with her, General Than Shwe told Mr. Gambari, according to Myanmar media.
 [Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy, dismissed the offer as unreasonable, Reuters reported on Friday.]
 Dissident groups from Myanmar, formerly Burma, were scathing in their appraisal of the proposal.
 ''This is meaningless; this is just for show,'' said Aung Din, the policy director of the United States Campaign for Burma, a group based in Washington that is working to bring democracy to the country. ''There are economic sanctions against Burma not because of Aung San Suu Kyi, but because of the military rulers. He has to meet with Aung San Suu Kyi without any conditions.''
 State media also announced Thursday that 2,093 people had been arrested in the crackdown and that 692 had been released. This is the first time the secretive junta has released any numbers on its arrests during the crackdown. 
 One of those released on Thursday is an employee of the United Nations in Myanmar, Myint Ngwe Mon, who was taken from her home with her husband, her brother-in-law and her driver on Wednesday. Their release was confirmed by Charles Petrie, the most senior official for the United Nations in the country, but no further details were available about the reasons for her detention and release.
 David Mathieson, an expert on Myanmar with the international rights group Human Rights Watch, said the junta's numbers on its arrests ''seem very plausible.'' He added, ''That's certainly very similar to what we've been hearing.'' 
 Mr. Mathieson said he believed that the junta's new public statements were a result of pressure from neighboring countries, including China and members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
 ''I think it's a reflection of pressure coming from the outside,'' he said. 
 Pressure has also been applied by the United Nations. During his meeting with the leader of the junta, Mr. Gambari, the United Nations envoy, asked that the government offer more information on the detentions, said Mr. Petrie, who was present in the meeting.
 The junta has announced that 10 people were killed in the crackdown, a number that diplomats in Yangon, the country's main city, and other analysts believe may be an underestimate.
 Public pressure has come from the United States, which last week expanded its visa ban on Myanmar's military leaders and their families, and from the European Union, which on Wednesday agreed in principle to toughen sanctions against Myanmar.
 The public reaction from China, which is thought to have the most sway over Myanmar's generals, has been more restrained. A statement by the spokesman of China's Foreign Ministry on Wednesday praised the ''mediation'' by the United Nations. 
 Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and General Than Shwe have met only a few times since elections in 1990, when Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party won a landslide victory that was ignored by the generals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%); ARRESTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); THAN SHWE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



77 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Bear Stearns Denies Need To Seek Cash From Outside

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Executives of Bear Stearns, one of the securities firms hit hardest by the collapse of the subprime mortgage market, said yesterday that it would weather the storm and that it was not looking for a cash infusion from an outside investor. 
 ''Things are getting better'' since the Federal Reserve lowered its benchmark interest rate on Sept. 18, Bear Stearns's president, Alan D. Schwartz, said in a presentation to investors yesterday. ''Liquidity has improved.''
 Bear Stearns will make managing risks a priority over growth and is avoiding ''big directional'' bets after reporting its largest quarterly earnings decline in a decade, Mr. Schwartz said. The firm was a factor in the summer's declines in the credit markets after two of its hedge funds lost $1.6 billion of clients' money. 
 The hedge fund collapse led to the Aug. 5 ouster of the former co-president, Warren J. Spector, 49, who was viewed by analysts as the most likely successor to the chief executive, James E. Cayne, 73. Mr. Schwartz, 57, became sole president.
 At the conference, Mr. Cayne said: ''I'm confident that Bear Stearns will weather the storm and come out a stronger, more diversified and a greater organization. We're not looking for an equity infusion.''
 Mr. Cayne said he would consider a potential partner only if the deal ''brings along geographic, strategic value to us.''
 Shares of Bear Stearns fell 67 cents yesterday, to $127.61.
 The stock's 22 percent decline this year is the worst on Wall Street, where Bear Stearns ranks fifth among United States securities firms by market value behind Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers. 
 Bear Stearns said Wednesday that it was cutting 310 jobs from units that originate mortgages.
 Securities firms have been eliminating mortgage jobs after record foreclosures sapped demand for bonds backed by home loans. 
 U.S. Begins Inquiry
 Federal prosecutors have begun a preliminary investigation into two Bear Stearns hedge funds that closed over the summer, people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.
 The United States attorney's office in Brooklyn has requested information about the funds, but did not issue any subpoenas, the people said. 
 Investors lost about $1.6 billion when the two funds -- the High-Grade Structured Credit Strategies fund and the High-Grade Structured Credit Strategies Enhanced Leverage Fund -- failed. Both were heavily invested in securities backed by subprime mortgage loans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (88%); EXECUTIVES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BONDS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FORECLOSURE (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); SUBPOENAS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CAYNE (78%); JAMES E CAYNE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



78 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: The Venturesome Giant

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
David R. Nissen, who runs GE Money, remembers how the corporate powers at General Electric used to react whenever the subject of joint ventures came up. ''The basic philosophy was, 'If you don't have full control, don't do the deal,''' Mr. Nissen recalled.
 Times have changed. In South Korea, GE Money, G.E.'s retail lending arm, has 43 percent stakes in Hyundai Capital and Hyundai Card, which offer auto loans, mortgages and credit cards. It has formed joint ventures with several Spanish savings banks to provide consumer loans and credit cards.
 And it has a consumer banking venture with Garanti Bank in Turkey, in which G.E. and the Dogus Group, Garanti's parent, each own 25.5 percent, with the rest owned by institutional investors. Garanti manages that venture. 
 Joint ventures ''have been one of our most powerful strategic tools,'' Mr. Nissen said, noting that net income for the ventures is growing at twice the rate of his core business.
 He is speaking for GE Money, but he could easily be speaking for General Electric as a whole. In the last few years, G.E. has shown an ever-greater willingness to hook up with other companies, even if it means taking a minority position.
 ''Sure, we could keep buying small companies and G.E.-ize them,'' said Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief executive. ''But we've learned that it's better to partner with the No. 3 company that wants to be No. 1 than to buy a tiny company or go it alone.''
 At G.E., that attitude is a shock to the corporate culture. Even Mr. Immelt concedes that ''our culture is based on the idea that our management approach is right.''
 But managerial imperialism is a luxury G.E. can no longer afford. ''They need to be in more geographic and technological markets, and joint ventures let them spread both risk and capital around,'' said Daniel J. Rosenblatt, an analyst at Marble Harbor Investment Counsel, which owns G.E. shares.
 G.E.'s new openness to joint ventures is a culmination of several converging trends.
 For one thing, the days when it could buy whatever it wanted are pretty much over. ''G.E. used to be the 900-pound gorilla with the magic bag of money,'' said James E. Schrager, clinical professor of entrepreneurship at the Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago. ''But these days, if there's a neat company for sale, the private equity people offer the highest price.''
 G.E.'s global push is a factor, too. This year, for the first time, G.E. will derive a majority of its revenue from overseas. Much of the incremental growth will come from areas in which G.E. has had a paltry presence, as well as from countries like China, where the economic and legal systems are in flux.
 ''When you don't know how the local laws will go, then joint ventures are the low-risk, high-return strategy for entering new markets,'' said Deane M. Dray, an analyst at Goldman Sachs. 
 But perhaps most important, Mr. Immelt has repeatedly promised to keep G.E. growing faster than the American economy. For a company whose revenue topped $160 billion last year, that is no small task. By taking partial ownership of a lot more companies than it could buy outright, G.E. is enhancing chances for a breakout hit and reducing the damage of an outright flop.
 ''Jeff's mantra is growth, growth, growth, so he's had to put more eggs into the joint venture basket,'' said Noel M. Tichy, a professor at the University of Michigan Business School.
 G.E. has done joint ventures before, of course. It has a longstanding 50-50 venture with the French state-owned aircraft engine maker Snecma, and another with Fanuc of Japan to make controls for electrical equipment. 
 GE SeaCo, which G.E. and Sea Containers of Britain formed nine years ago, has become one of the world's largest lessors of shipping containers. And MSNBC started out as a joint venture with Microsoft. (G.E. bought Microsoft out last year, but the two companies still jointly run MSNBC's digital operations.)
 But those ventures came about only after G.E. had explored other ways to gain access to a particular market or technology.
 ''We used to go into talks saying 'acquisition,' with joint ventures a distant second choice,'' said Pamela Daley, senior vice president for corporate business development. ''But we now see J.V.'s as a great way to dip a toe into a new market.''
 Examples are rife. G.E. and Hitachi are combining their nuclear operations and plan to pursue markets jointly outside the United States and Japan. G.E.'s commercial finance unit, taking GE Money's lead, has set up a lending venture in Turkey with Garanti. A few months ago, G.E. briefly considered bidding for Dow Jones -- but only in partnership with Pearson, which owns The Financial Times.
 NBC Universal -- itself a joint venture, formed in 2004 with Vivendi, which owns 20 percent -- has teamed up with the News Corporation to form Hulu.com, a video-streaming Web site, ''and at one point we even tried to bring in a third partner, because the more content the better,'' said Jeff Zucker, chief executive of NBC Universal.
 G.E. scientists, too, are ''engaging with other companies in whole new ways,'' said Mark M. Little, director of G.E. Corporate Research in Niskayuna, N.Y. One change: teams of researchers now work with venture capital firms to help G.E. identify small companies that have ''technologies that we cannot master on our own, and into which we want visibility,'' he said.
 That was how G.E. wound up investing in A123Systems, a start-up with a lithium ion battery technology. G.E. is already considering a ''deeper research collaboration'' with A123, Mr. Little said.
 G.E. researchers are collaborating with their counterparts at several health care companies to develop new ways to diagnose and treat cancers, and to explore new pain management systems. And G.E. is pooling its technology for organic light emitting diodes -- usually called Oleds -- with that of Konica Minolta, in hopes of jointly developing various lighting products.
 ''We've learned to spot when we need partners to develop a successful commercial offering,'' Mr. Little said.
 More joint ventures are in the wings. Ted Chung, the chief executive of Hyundai Capital and Hyundai Card, said he was talking to G.E. about forming companies outside of Korea. GE Equipment Services recently bought 15 percent of Titagarh Wagons Limited, a maker of railway wagons in India, ''and we may well do a financing venture with them in the future,'' said Deborah M. Reif, chief executive of GE Equipment.
 GE Money is already talking with a company named Dogus, which has long had construction operations in Eastern Europe, about forming a joint company in Romania, of which G.E. would probably own a third.
 ''G.E. recognizes that we know our country and our customers, and that we've established a chemistry of trust in the local marketplace,'' said Ferit Faik Sahenk, the chairman of Dogus.
 Still, joint ventures are no panacea for G.E. Although its partnership agreements normally give even the minority partner veto power over major strategic directions, control issues still scuttle some ventures.
 In January G.E. made two announcements: It would buy the aerospace unit of the Smiths Group, and it would put part of its fast-growing security business into a joint venture, Smiths GE Detection, of which G.E. would own 36 percent. The acquisition closed in March, but on Sept. 19 G.E. and Smiths ended talks for the joint venture, saying they could not agree on a vision.
 In fact, Hyundai Motor did not have high hopes when it proposed joint ventures to G.E. in 2003. Hyundai needed cash badly, but because financing is critical to a car company, it refused to cede control.
 ''If G.E. had insisted on a majority, we would have gone elsewhere,'' Mr. Chung said. ''I was surprised when they agreed.''
 While Mr. Chung will not take orders from G.E., he happily takes its advice. He said he has learned people management techniques from G.E.'s human resources group, and he has taken courses at G.E.'s management school in Crotonville, N.Y. ''And whenever we need help with anything, G.E. sends some guys over,'' he said. ''We appreciate their openness as much as their Triple-A credit rating.''
 Such comments are gratifying to Mr. Immelt, of course. ''We like partners who recognize that if you want to build a valuable company, we're not bad people to hang out with,'' he said.
 But he stresses that the learning goes both ways. When G.E. was developing a new aircraft engine for sale in France, he consulted with Jean-Rene Fourtou, the chairman of Vivendi. Mr. Fourtou is not an engineer, but he certainly knows the culture. 
 ''I ask Jean-Rene for advice about France all the time,'' Mr. Immelt said. ''It's turned out to be a wonderful ancillary benefit.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about General Electric's increasing participation in joint ventures misstated the corporate location of Sea Containers, one of G.E.'s partners. Sea Containers is registered in Bermuda, not Britain. (The company has a regional office in London.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David R. Nissen, GE Money's chief executive, says joint ventures are growing fast. (pg. C8) DRAWING
 CHART: JOINING FORCES: General Electric has formed dozens of joint ventures in recent years. Here is a selection across various divisions at G.E. (Source: General Electric) (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOINT VENTURES (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%)

COMPANY: GE MONEY (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (84%); TUERKIYE GARANTI BANKASI AS (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (84%); GEC (LSE) (84%); GE (SWX) (84%); GE (NYSE) (84%); TGBD (LSE) (57%); GARAN (ISE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (51%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKEY (71%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007



79 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Letters: An Alternative in Food Aid

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''As Food Prices Soar, U.S. Food Aid Is Buying Less'' (front page, Sept. 29): 
 If the proposal to speed up humanitarian response by using United States Agency for International Development cash funds to purchase non-American food in the vicinity of a disaster has been meeting opposition in Congress and elsewhere, here is a practical alternative: borrowing.
 Nearly all governments maintain strategic stocks of grain, and those that do not must be helped to develop them. Then, in an emergency, aid agencies could borrow from local stocks, based on the assurance of reimbursement. The United Nations World Food Program does this from time to time, and it works very well. 
 The advantages are obvious: speedy response, local participation, promotion of the habit of keeping national stocks, and no unhappiness among American farmers, charities and other interests, as reimbursements in kind could come from the United States at a time when it does not interfere with post-harvest prices. Masood Hyder
 Scarsdale, N.Y., Sept. 29, 2007
 The writer is a former United Nations resident coordinator in North Korea and World Food Program representative in Sudan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (92%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); WRITERS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (83%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SUDAN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



80 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Global Support for Trade, Mixed With Some Doubts

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Buoyed and battered by globalization, people around the world strongly view international trade as a good thing but harbor growing concerns about its side effects: threats to their cultures, damage to the environment and the challenges posed by immigration, a new survey indicates.
 In the Pew Global Attitudes Project survey of people in 46 countries and the Palestinian territories, large majorities everywhere said that trade was a good thing. In countries like Argentina, which recently experienced trade-based growth, the attitude toward trade has become more positive. 
But support for trade has decreased in recent years in advanced Western countries, including Germany, Britain, France and Italy -- and most sharply in the United States. The number of Americans saying trade is good for the country has dropped by 19 percentage points since 2002, to 59 percent.
 ''G.D.P. growth hasn't been as dramatic in these places as in Latin America or Eastern Europe,'' said Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center, referring to gross domestic product, the total value of the goods and services produced in a country. ''But worldwide, even though some people are rich and some are poor, support for the basic tenet of capitalism is pretty strong.''
 In almost all the countries, majorities agreed that environmental protection should be a high priority, ''even if it causes slower economic growth and some loss of jobs.'' Majorities in most countries surveyed also said that their traditional way of life was being lost. At least half of the respondents in those countries said that their way of life should be protected against foreign influence. 
 A total of more than 45,000 adults were surveyed. Interviews were conducted in April and May, some by telephone but most face to face; most polling was conducted nationwide, though in eight countries it was primarily urban. Margins of sampling error ranged between plus or minus 2 percentage points and plus or minus 4 percentage points.
 The survey found that immigration concerns remained widespread, with large majorities in nearly every country favoring tougher restrictions. 
 Yet, views in the United States and Europe toward immigrants were not entirely predictable. Solid majorities of Americans and Canadians see it as a good thing that Asians and Latin Americans come to live and work in their countries, while majorities in Britain and France say the same about workers from the Middle East, North Africa and Eastern Europe. 
 Since 2002, the number of Americans supporting tighter immigration curbs has declined slightly, as it has among Canadians. Support in Britain and France for tighter immigration limits also declined slightly. 
 But in Italy, which has struggled with a steady flow of illegal immigrants, many arriving by sea from Africa, the number backing tighter immigration laws rose to 87 percent, from 80 percent in 2002. In Italy, 20 percent said that immigration from the Middle East and North Africa was good, while 67 percent said it was bad. Only 26 percent of Germans called immigration from those regions good, while 64 percent said it was bad. 
 Support for tougher immigration rules also soared in Jordan, which has faced a huge influx of Iraqis since the war started in 2003, rising to 70 percent, from 48 percent in 2002.
 The survey found Americans more likely than most West Europeans to believe that their culture was superior; 55 percent of Americans said so. The only European country with a higher degree of self-belief was Italy, where 7 in 10 respondents proclaimed cultural superiority. 
 The Swedes, meantime, were the most self-critical. Only 2 in 10 said their culture was superior. Among the British and French, 3 in 10 said so.
 Most countries displayed a clear negative correlation between wealth and strength of religious belief. The United States, though, has high levels of both religious belief and affluence.
 While most Western Europeans expressed tolerance of homosexuality, fewer than half of Americans, Japanese and Israelis said it should be accepted.
 There were stark differences in how strongly people in NATO countries felt that military force was sometimes necessary to maintain order. More than one-third of Turks and Americans said that they ''completely agree'' that it was sometimes necessary; one-fourth of Canadians, French and Italians said so; one-fifth of Britons agreed, as did only one-tenth of Germans and Spaniards.
 At a time when leadership changes loom in Russia and possibly Pakistan, they were among only five places where people considered it more important to have a strong leader than a democratic government (the others were Ukraine, Bulgaria and the Palestinian territories). In 1991, a majority in newly democratic Russia said they preferred democratic government. 
 Solid majorities in the predominantly Muslim countries surveyed, except Turkey and Pakistan, said that democracy could work in their countries and was not just a Western way of doing things. 
 There was widespread agreement in most of Africa, Asia and the Middle East that morality required belief in God, with 99 percent of Egyptians saying so; but only one-tenth of Swedes and one-fifth of Britons agreed. Among Americans, nearly 6 in 10 linked God and morality.
 The survey also underscored an explosion in technology use. Computer ownership was highest in South Korea, at 93 percent. But many developing countries remained in the single digits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); IMMIGRATION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); LAYOFFS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



81 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Global Support for Trade, Mixed With Some Doubts

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Buoyed and battered by globalization, people around the world strongly view international trade as a good thing but harbor growing concerns about its side effects: threats to their cultures, damage to the environment and the challenges posed by immigration, a new survey indicates.
 In the Pew Global Attitudes Project survey of people in 46 countries and the Palestinian territories, large majorities everywhere said that trade was a good thing. In countries like Argentina, which recently experienced trade-based growth, the attitude toward trade has become more positive. 
But support for trade has decreased in recent years in advanced Western countries, including Germany, Britain, France and Italy -- and most sharply in the United States. The number of Americans saying trade is good for the country has dropped by 19 percentage points since 2002, to 59 percent.
 ''G.D.P. growth hasn't been as dramatic in these places as in Latin America or Eastern Europe,'' said Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center, referring to gross domestic product, the total value of the goods and services produced in a country. ''But worldwide, even though some people are rich and some are poor, support for the basic tenet of capitalism is pretty strong.''
 In almost all the countries, majorities agreed that environmental protection should be a high priority, ''even if it causes slower economic growth and some loss of jobs.'' Majorities in most countries surveyed also said that their traditional way of life was being lost. At least half of the respondents in those countries said that their way of life should be protected against foreign influence. 
 A total of more than 45,000 adults were surveyed. Interviews were conducted in April and May, some by telephone but most face to face; most polling was conducted nationwide, though in eight countries it was primarily urban. Margins of sampling error ranged between plus or minus 2 percentage points and plus or minus 4 percentage points.
 The survey found that immigration concerns remained widespread, with large majorities in nearly every country favoring tougher restrictions. 
 Yet, views in the United States and Europe toward immigrants were not entirely predictable. Solid majorities of Americans and Canadians see it as a good thing that Asians and Latin Americans come to live and work in their countries, while majorities in Britain and France say the same about workers from the Middle East, North Africa and Eastern Europe. 
 Since 2002, the number of Americans supporting tighter immigration curbs has declined slightly, as it has among Canadians. Support in Britain and France for tighter immigration limits also declined slightly. 
 But in Italy, which has struggled with a steady flow of illegal immigrants, many arriving by sea from Africa, the number backing tighter immigration laws rose to 87 percent, from 80 percent in 2002. In Italy, 20 percent said that immigration from the Middle East and North Africa was good, while 67 percent said it was bad. Only 26 percent of Germans called immigration from those regions good, while 64 percent said it was bad. 
 Support for tougher immigration rules also soared in Jordan, which has faced a huge influx of Iraqis since the war started in 2003, rising to 70 percent, from 48 percent in 2002.
 The survey found Americans more likely than most West Europeans to believe that their culture was superior; 55 percent of Americans said so. The only European country with a higher degree of self-belief was Italy, where 7 in 10 respondents proclaimed cultural superiority. 
 The Swedes, meantime, were the most self-critical. Only 2 in 10 said their culture was superior. Among the British and French, 3 in 10 said so.
 Most countries displayed a clear negative correlation between wealth and strength of religious belief. The United States, though, has high levels of both religious belief and affluence.
 While most Western Europeans expressed tolerance of homosexuality, fewer than half of Americans, Japanese and Israelis said it should be accepted.
 There were stark differences in how strongly people in NATO countries felt that military force was sometimes necessary to maintain order. More than one-third of Turks and Americans said that they ''completely agree'' that it was sometimes necessary; one-fourth of Canadians, French and Italians said so; one-fifth of Britons agreed, as did only one-tenth of Germans and Spaniards.
 At a time when leadership changes loom in Russia and possibly Pakistan, they were among only five places where people considered it more important to have a strong leader than a democratic government (the others were Ukraine, Bulgaria and the Palestinian territories). In 1991, a majority in newly democratic Russia said they preferred democratic government. 
 Solid majorities in the predominantly Muslim countries surveyed, except Turkey and Pakistan, said that democracy could work in their countries and was not just a Western way of doing things. 
 There was widespread agreement in most of Africa, Asia and the Middle East that morality required belief in God, with 99 percent of Egyptians saying so; but only one-tenth of Swedes and one-fifth of Britons agreed. Among Americans, nearly 6 in 10 linked God and morality.
 The survey also underscored an explosion in technology use. Computer ownership was highest in South Korea, at 93 percent. But many developing countries remained in the single digits. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Views on Globalization: How those in 47 places view the growing trade and business ties between countries.(Source: Pew Global Attitudes Project) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); IMMIGRATION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); LAYOFFS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



82 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Looks Rosier, Easing Recession Fears

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The portrait of the economy took on a strikingly different cast yesterday.
 Job growth was much stronger this summer than the government had first estimated, the Labor Department said, easing fears of a recession and making it less likely the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates when it meets at the end of this month.
 The economy added 110,000 jobs in September and roughly 90,000 in both July and August, according to the new report. The Labor Department had reported a month ago that the economy lost 4,000 jobs in August. 
 Wall Street responded favorably to the news, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumping almost 1 percent to close at 1,557. The Dow Jones industrial average rose nearly 92 points, or 0.6 percent, to 14,066.
 The government's economic data is revised every month as new information becomes available, but the changes are rarely so large or present such a different picture of the economy from the initial snapshot. Last month's unexpectedly weak unemployment report prompted a stock market sell-off, amid worries that the housing slump was spreading to the broader economy, and helped spur a half-point reduction in the Fed's benchmark interest rate. 
 The new data suggests that economic growth has indeed slowed this year and that hiring in the private sector has weakened considerably, but the overall economy no longer appears to be on the verge of a recession, economists said. 
 ''It gives the Fed room to stand back and do nothing and just continue to assess,'' said Joshua C. Shapiro, chief United States economist for the research firm MFR. ''If the meeting were today, I think they would do nothing.''
 President Bush hailed the report while speaking at the White House yesterday morning, referring to it as a sign of a ''vibrant and strong economy.'' He noted that the economy has added jobs in 49 consecutive months and used the occasion, as he has many times in the past, to urge Congress to resist any tax increases.
 Many investors still expect the Fed to cut its benchmark short-term interest rate, now at 4.75 percent, by another quarter of a point before the end of the year. The housing market has continued to worsen, and forecasters said that the economy was still at risk of weakening in coming months. Any fresh signs of distress are likely to prompt the Fed to move quickly, economists said.
 ''I don't think we're totally out of the woods,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist for Goldman Sachs. ''There are some real problems at the foundations of the economy. If nothing really bad happens, we can muddle through and unwind some of these problems over a lengthy period of time. And if something bad happens, we go into a recession.''
 The unemployment rate ticked up to 4.7 percent last month, from 4.6 percent in August, a reflection of the slowdown in hiring over the course of 2007.
 In 2005 and 2006, the job market was in its strongest condition since the late 1990s, adding about 200,000 jobs a month and causing wages to outpace inflation. But as the housing market has weakened, oil prices have risen and consumer spending has slowed somewhat, job growth has faded, to just under 100,000 a month over the last three months. 
 Private-sector payrolls are growing at their slowest annual rate since April 2004. 
 ''We're likely to go through an extended period of slow economic growth in the United States,'' said Ethan Harris, the chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers. ''We're likely to see a further drop in the job market, a further rise in the unemployment rate, and ultimately the Fed will come back again and cut interest rates.''
 The average hourly wage of rank-and-file workers -- who make up about 80 percent of the work force -- reached an all-time high of $17.57 last month, even after taking inflation into account. Two years ago, the hourly wage was $17.01, adjusted for inflation.
 Pay continues to outpace inflation, but wage growth has been unusually weak over the course of the current economic expansion, and the softening of the job market this year has caused wage growth to slow. Unless hiring picks up again in the coming months, the wage increases of the current expansion are likely to fall far short of those during the late 1990s.
 The vast majority of yesterday's revision came in government jobs, with 71,000 jobs in local education being added to the preliminary estimate. It was the first time that nonfarm payrolls were revised from a loss to a gain in the following report since October 2002.
 ''I can't explain why it happened; to some extent, it's just chance,'' said Thomas L. Nardone, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics who oversees the jobs report. Mr. Nardone said that early surveys of schools simply did not reflect the actual job growth. 
 Richard Moody, the chief economist at Mission Residential, a real estate investment company, noted that school districts in several large states had delayed the start of their school year. As a result, the usual August surge in education employment -- which the Labor Department's seasonal adjustments are intended to account for -- did not happen until September this year.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Second Guesses: Preliminary employment figures are usually revised, but the latest ones changed the picture of the economy's health. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C1) Chart shows bar graph for CHANGE IN NONFARM PAYROLL.
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8) Chart shows daily activity of market from start to finish. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); TAX LAW (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



83 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'LIFE IS WILD '; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Deep Answers In the Wild Green Yonder

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Though we are constantly hearing about the precocity of a certain segment of American young people -- the way they are going to foreign-policy summer camp and planning for college when they are 12 -- television, or specifically what is referred to as ''family television,'' hasn't found a way to speak to their greater curiosity and ambitions. With the exception of shows like ''Everwood,'' and ''The Gilmore Girls,'' it can't find the right language and tone. Instead it offers up ventures like ''Life Is Wild,'' which begins on the CW network tomorrow night, and says: ''See? There are cute animals. Like it and get your parents to watch too.''
 ''Life Is Wild,'' which is based on a BBC series, simply cannot be given the preapproved seal of inspection for adults, either. Why? Well, there are many reasons, but in no small part because its efforts at exposition are of the kind that would make even a young wildebeest scream: ''Rewrite! Rewrite! Rewrite!'' 
 Corrupting the great American literary tradition that puts faith in the purifying power of the untamed landscape, the series revolves around a fictional Manhattan veterinarian, played by D. W. Moffett, who forces his family to spend a year at a safari camp in South Africa that probably never made it very high up the Conde Nast Traveler rating system. The vet's second wife has come to the now out-of-use camp happily, even though it is owned and occupied by the father of his dead first wife. Maybe she's just the sort of person -- oh, you know the type -- who felt that her affections could not be contained by one set of in-laws. 
 Her first distress comes when she finds the old salt teaching her children how to spit dung. She asks him not to ''encourage the children to play with animal excretions or any other kind for that matter.'' And that elicits the following biographical response:
 ''Certainly. You're the high-powered divorce lawyer who makes a living out of other people's misery.''
 The point of the adventure is that the vet will get a vehicle for expressing his noblesse oblige -- he will help poor people and their goats -- as the fractious family of stepchildren conducts an exercise in out-of-its-element healing. Surely, many 12-year-olds will wonder why they all didn't just go to family therapy somewhere in Connecticut.
 And at about the moment the teenage daughter realizes that there is no computer or Internet access at the Blue Antelope Lodge, no way to gain access to her My Space page, they will start to think that the show was written by Stephen King.
 ''Life Is Wild'' is filmed on location and revels travel-magazine style in the African bush. It refers to South Africa's grim history but paints the country largely as a peaceful and happy place, where black townships are vibrant and cheery, great spots for buying the crafts of the natives. The kids who can tell you the G.D.P. of Zimbabwe are going to call a big foul on that.
 LIFE IS WILD
 CW, tomorrow night at 8, Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time.
 Michael Rauch, Charlie Pattinson, George Farber, executive producers; Sue Tenney, Dana Baratta and Jim Sadwith, co-executive producers; Brian Gordon directed this episode. A production of CBS Paramount Network Television, Warner Brothers Television and Company Pictures.
 WITH: Leah Pipes (Katie Clarke), D.W. Moffett (Danny), Stephanie Niznick (Jo), K'Sun Ray ( Chase), Andrew St. John (Jesse), Mary Matilyn Mouser (Mia), David Butler (Art), Calvin Goldspink (Oliver), Atandwa Kani (Tumelo), Tiffany Mulheron (Emily).

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A television review on Saturday about ''Life Is Wild,'' on the CW network, referred incorrectly to the series on which it is based. While that series, ''Wild at Heart,'' was shown in the United States on BBC America, it was a Company Pictures production for ITV. It was not a BBC series. A picture caption with the review, using information provided by CW, reversed the identities of the actors shown. D. W. Moffett was on the left, and David Butler was on the right.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Butler, left, and D. W. Moffett in a scene from the show ''Life Is Wild,'' a family drama set in the South African bush. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BLOOMER/CW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); MAMMALS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); FAMILY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); STEPPARENTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) SOUTH AFRICA (86%); UNITED STATES (50%)

TITLE: Life Is Wild (TV Program)>; Life Is Wild (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



84 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Monthly Data Aside, Trend Is Weak

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
JOB growth in the United States has slowed significantly over the last year, a fact that renews questions about the ability of the overall economy to withstand a slowdown in housing.
 Yesterday, the Labor Department reported job growth in September that was stronger than many had expected, and it revised higher the previous month's figure, which had shown a net loss of jobs.
 At the same time, the government said that it now thinks it overestimated growth by 297,000 jobs in 2006 and early 2007. 
 The report led President Bush yesterday to pronounce the economy ''vibrant and strong,'' and to renew his request to make his tax cuts permanent.
 Even with the revisions, job growth over the last six months has averaged 112,000 a month, a figure that is the lowest for any six months since early 2004, when the economy was recovering from a period when jobs declined at the fastest rate since 1975.
 Moreover, there are reasons to think the latest figures will be revised lower.
 ''There is an unmistakable deterioration in the job numbers over the last three months, six months, one year and two years,'' said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG, a financial analysis firm.
 A gain of 112,000 jobs a month is about half the growth in the population of working-age Americans, which is one reason the unemployment rate has risen to 4.7 percent in September from a low of 4.4 percent in March. 
 Yesterday, the Labor Department said it had overestimated growth by 297,000 jobs in the 12 months through March 2007. It is likely that most of that overestimation came late in that period, although that will not be known until February, when the government releases new figures for each month.
 In part because that number is based on what now seems like ancient history, it was largely ignored by analysts. But one reason it is significant is that it indicates the government made overly optimistic assumptions during the period and makes it likely that its current assumptions are similarly rosy.
 The job figures each month are based on a survey of employers, but the numbers released are not exactly what the survey shows. Instead, the Labor Department adds or subtracts jobs, based on estimates of how many people found work with newly created companies, less those who lost jobs at companies that went out of business. The figures come from what the department calls its birth-death model.
 The figures are eventually corrected based on data on the number of people covered by unemployment insurance, which is more accurate but available on a delayed basis. 
 At turning points in the economy, the birth-death model figures can be considerably off. If the economy is strengthening, as it was in recent years, the result can be an underestimation of job growth. Indeed, a year ago the government said it needed to add 810,000 jobs for the year ended in March 2006. But over the following year, the estimates were too generous.
 Over the last 12 months, most of the reported job growth has come from the birth-death model, not from the actual survey of employers. If the model overestimated employment by new companies, then the figures for that period are likely to be revised down a year from now.
 Since March, that model added 839,000 jobs to the numbers that came from the survey. The government figures show that 150,000 of the jobs were in construction. Those estimates were based on the strength of the industry in recent years, and seem highly unlikely to be accurate now, with housing construction falling rapidly.
 There is no question that the job picture seems better now than it appeared a month ago, after the government reported a decline in employment in August. Even with the changes, job growth this year appears to be mediocre, and probably overstated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); LAYOFFS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); STATISTICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



85 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-8 
 More U.S. Oversight Planned for Blackwater
 The State Department said that it would assign staff members as monitors on all Blackwater security convoys in and around Baghdad. A1 
 American troops attacked a Shiite town, killing at least 25 Iraqis the military described as criminals involved in transporting weapons. But Iraqis at the scene said the dead were civilians, though some were armed. A6 
 Prostitution Out in Bulgaria
 The Bulgarian government, which had been planning to legalize prostitution, abruptly reversed itself. A7 
 U.N. Attacks Myanmar Moves
 Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said that the use of force to put down peaceful protests in Myanmar was ''abhorrent and unacceptable,'' and that the country's government must release those it arrested. A8 
 NATIONALA9-14 
 Bush Defends Methods Of Questioning Detainees
 President Bush, reacting to a Congressional uproar over the disclosure of Justice Department legal opinions permitting the harsh interrogation of terrorism suspects, defended the methods, saying, ''This government does not torture people.'' A1 
 In the latest disruption of the Bush administration's plan to try detainees for war crimes, the chief military prosecutor on the project, Col. Morris D. Davis, stepped down after a dispute with a Pentagon official. A11 
 Growth Plays Out on Campus
 Arizona State is trying to become the nation's largest university, as it scrambles to keep up with the region's surging population. A9 
 Prosecutor Commits Suicide
 A federal prosecutor, J. D. Roy Atchison, who is charged with traveling from Florida to Michigan to have sex with a 5-year-old girl, committed suicide in prison, his lawyer said. A9 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB10-11
 Topps Says Meat Recall Is Forcing It to Close
 The Topps Meat Company, one of the country's largest manufacturers of frozen hamburgers, said it was going out of business a week after it recalled more than 21.7 million pounds of ground beef products.B10 
 BUSINESS DAYB1-8Recession Fears Ebb
 Fears of a recession were eased as the Labor Department reported that job growth was stronger this summer than the government first estimated. B1 
 Business DigestB2
 EDITORIALA26-27
 Editorials: Out of prison and deep in debt; questions about the India deal, finally; slogging on the home front; the other show at the Garden.
 Columns: Bob Herbert and Gail Collins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); MILITARY OFFENSES (77%); WAR CRIMES (77%); MILITARY COURTS (77%); BEEF (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); TORTURE (73%); TERRORISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (68%); FOOD RECALLS (68%); MEATS (68%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (67%); SUICIDE (64%); PRODUCT RECALLS (63%); FROZEN FOODS (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (92%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BAN KI-MOON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MYANMAR (92%); BULGARIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



86 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Bulgaria, Joining a European Trend, Won't Legalize Prostitution

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

DATELINE: SOFIA, Bulgaria, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
The Bulgarian government, which had been planning to legalize prostitution, abruptly reversed itself on Friday, part of a broad trend in Europe to impose bans as a way to combat sexual trafficking. 
 ''We should be very definite in saying that selling flesh is a crime,'' Rumen Petkov, the interior minister, said at a forum on human trafficking on Friday, also attended by the president, the minister of justice and the United States ambassador to Bulgaria.
 Bulgaria is only the latest European country to shift its approach to prostitution. Finland last year made it illegal to buy sex from women brought in by traffickers, and Norway is on the verge of imposing an outright ban on purchasing sex. 
 Even in Amsterdam, the city government has proposed shutting down more than a quarter of the famed storefront brothels in the red-light district. And in the Czech Republic and the three Baltic republics, attempts at legalization similar to the Bulgarian one have been turned back. 
 Prostitution now exists in a legal gray area in Bulgaria, a small but important country for the European sex trade. Women are sent abroad by the thousands each year to work as prostitutes, often against their will, and many others are forced into prostitution within the country's borders.
 Opponents of legal prostitution argue that illegal operations flourish in environments where paying for sex is permitted, and that human trafficking follows the demand. The goal of prohibiting sex-for-money is to reduce the demand, and thus curtail trafficking if not stamp it out entirely.
 ''It has turned around,'' said Gunilla Ekberg, formerly a special adviser to the Swedish government on the subject and now a co-executive director of the nonprofit Coalition Against Trafficking in Women-International. ''There's a recognition, both politically and in civil society, that Bulgaria is not going to be a haven for prostitution.''
 The fight against legal prostitution has been led by an unusual coalition, including the Bush administration, feminist groups and the Swedish government. Proponents of measures like the Swedish model, which punishes customers rather than the prostitutes, say it has succeeded in Europe precisely because it singles out those who pay for sex without criminalizing those who provide it. The prostitutes, mostly women, are the real victims of the transactions, the proponents say.
 While increasingly appealing, the Swedish model is hardly the only one. The Hungarian government announced last month that it would give entrepreneur permits to prostitutes to help bring them into the legal economy and collect tax revenues.
 The most common arguments against the Swedish model are those long used in the legalization debate: because prostitution is all but impossible to eradicate, it is better to keep it in the open, with some control.
 Even if it is not a crime for the women, critics say, they still must hide to protect their clients. ''If they make prostitution illegal, it will go much more underground, more inaccessible for services and help, for police and for protection,'' said Nadia Kozhouharova, a psychotherapist who works with abused women, including victims of trafficking, through a Sofia group, the Animus Association.
 On the streets of Sofia, several women engaged in prostitution said they took advantage of the distribution of condoms and the free health checkups now available. A 23-year-old woman, who declined to give her name to keep her family from finding out about her occupation, said that she preferred working on the street rather than from a brothel, because she could make a judgment about whether to go with a client.
 ''If you're in a club, you go to addresses and you don't know what will happen,'' she said through an interpreter. ''They may beat you.''
 The woman was working a stretch of Hristo Botev Boulevard populated with a mix of female and transvestite prostitutes. She wore fishnet stockings and a denim jacket, and snapped her bubble gum between drags on her cigarette.
 She had worked in Germany, she said, where prostitution is legal, but preferred Bulgaria because, she said, ''everything here is with condoms,'' whereas men in Germany insisted that she perform unprotected oral sex on them. Asked how she ended up in prostitution, she replied simply, ''No one has become a prostitute for a good reason.''
 The anti-prostitution movement has received significant support because of the link between prostitution and human trafficking. According to the State Department, an estimated 800,000 people are taken by traffickers across international borders each year, four of five of them women. In December 2002, the United States adopted a foreign-policy position against legalized prostitution, based on the link with trafficking.
 ''Legalizing prostitution creates a legitimate business front for the most brutal exploitation of women,'' said Mark P. Lagon, the United States ambassador at large to combat trafficking. ''It is the demand that draws a flow of people and a dark underground sex-trafficking industry.'' 
 Bulgarian officials said the trafficking in women from their country was directed chiefly to places in Western Europe, like Germany and the Netherlands, where prostitution is legal. ''The traffickers are very practical businessmen,'' said Antoaneta Vassileva, executive secretary of the national antitrafficking commission here. ''They are going to the countries where the law is not suppressing them.'' 
 The Bulgarian and Norwegian police said they broke up a trafficking ring in May in Oslo, where 18 Bulgarian women were held in apartments and forced to work as prostitutes. Norway's government is working on a law to punish people who buy sex; a government official there said it should be in effect by spring.
 The Swedish law went into effect on Jan. 1, 1999. While it allows for jail sentences, customers have received only fines so far. Much of the deterrent effect, proponents say, comes from the repercussions of being publicly identified as a john. This, in turn, makes Sweden less appealing for traffickers, officials there say.
 When eavesdropping on telephone calls by traffickers and pimps, the police hear them complain that ''Sweden is a bad market,'' said Kajsa Wahlberg, a detective inspector in the Swedish National Criminal Police. ''Buyers are afraid to get caught. You have to have an apartment. You have to move the women around.'' She said that unlike brothels in Oslo or Copenhagen, which might have 50 women each, those broken up in Sweden usually had just two or three.
 Women's advocates in Bulgaria hope to duplicate Sweden's success. One leading voice here, and an organizer of the forum on Friday, is Nadezhda Mihaylova, a member of parliament and former foreign minister. She said the debate in this country of 7.3 million was still affected by the reaction against the totalitarianism of the Communist era.
 Under Communism, the state controlled almost all aspects of life. Afterward, she said, the pendulum swung too far in the opposite direction. ''A lot of people say the state should not interfere with personal choice,'' she said.
 While the front-burner issue in Bulgaria is the export of women into forced prostitution abroad, Ms. Vassileva of the antitrafficking commission said that 45 percent of trafficking takes place within the country, often from poor rural villages to the big cities and resorts along the Black Sea coast. The country's chief prosecutor, Boris Velchev, who was at the forum, described what he called a ''double standard'' in the treatment ofthose forced into prostitution abroad and attitudes toward those domestically, who he said receive less attention and are more likely to be blamed than treated as victims.
 ''I believe the legalization of prostitution would make Bulgaria a destination for sex tourism,'' Ms. Mihaylova said. ''This is not the future that I see for my country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A woman, 34, who said she was a prostitute, on a street known for prostitution in Sofia, Bulgaria. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHRYN COOK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (92%); DECRIMINALIZATION (92%); SEX TRAFFICKING (91%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WOMEN (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CITIES (54%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) EUROPE (94%); BULGARIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NORWAY (79%); FINLAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



87 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: G.M. to Pay To Research Health Care

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD and MARY M. CHAPMAN

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
For years, General Motors has said it supports the United Automobile Workers union in its push for change in the nation's health care system. Now the U.A.W. has persuaded G.M. to put its money where its mouth is.
 In a labor agreement reached last week between the company and the union, G.M. has agreed to spend up to $15 million over the next few years to create a National Institute for Health Care Reform. 
 The pledge is contained in contract language that creates a voluntary employee benefit association, or VEBA, a health care trust that would take responsibility for G.M.'s $55 billion liability for benefits covering G.M. employees, retirees and their families.
 G.M. workers are voting on the tentative agreement, and results are expected on Wednesday.
 The institute, to be financed by five annual payments of $3 million each, would be the ''premier research and educational health reform think tank,'' the agreement says. It would be ''dedicated to understanding, evaluating and developing thoughtful and innovative reform measures.''
 The institute, run by G.M. and the U.A.W., would engage economists, analysts, academics and other experts, who would conduct studies on the current health care system as well as alternatives. It would look at ways to lower drug costs and would sponsor forums on health care changes.
 A G.M. spokeswoman, Michelle Bunker, said the company had not specifically called for a single-payer health care plan, in which a government program would be created to offer health care benefits.
 But she said G.M. ''believes that all Americans should have access to insurance, and we are working with key players to make sure that everyone has high-quality care at low cost.''
 Although G.M. is making the initial investment, Ford Motor and Chrysler also would make proportional contributions, if they agree to similar terms in their new contracts with the U.A.W., according to the contract language.
 A Chrysler spokeswoman, Michele Tinson, said she could not comment on the institute. But she added: ''Chrysler has been working with Congress and the administration in a bipartisan way to improve the quality of health care and make it more affordable for all. The quality, accessibility and cost of health care are critical issues for our nation.''
 Ford declined to comment.
 G.M. made a similar pledge to support health care changes in a 2005 agreement with the U.A.W., in which union members agreed to pay a greater portion of their health care bill. But there was no specific financial commitment for that effort.
 Under that agreement, G.M. and the U.A.W. agreed to participate in an ''unprecedented effort to enact policies to improve the quality of health care'' and to ''make it more affordable, accessible and accountable on a national, comprehensive basis.''
 Frank Hammer, who recently retired as president of U.A.W. Local 909 in Warren, Mich., said there had been a ''presumption'' that G.M. would spend money on the effort. ''It's certainly a far cry from '05,'' Mr. Hammer said of the new agreement, ''but what is the $15 million devoted to?''
 It is not clear who would run a G.M.-financed research organization, or whether it would have more influence than the numerous organizations already focused on the health care issue.
 The U.A.W. has supported national health care for generations. It was a primary focus for Walter P. Reuther, one of the union's founders. He began arguing in favor of universal health care after World War II, and was one of the forces behind the creation of Medicare for older Americans.
 Mr. Reuther's successor, Leonard Woodcock, urged American businesses in 1970 to support a national health care plan as a way to fight raging health care inflation.
 In the absence of a national system, the union instead secured generous health care benefits for its members and retirees, which have since added up to a $55 billion liability for G.M. and a nearly $100 billion liability for the industry over all.
 At G.M., that liability will now be borne by the VEBA, which G.M. will start with $29.9 billion in funding, once the courts and federal regulators approve it.
 Ms. Bunker at G.M. said she could not comment on what would happen to the funds in the VEBA if a national health care plan became available. But over the long term, union officials say, the country needs a master plan for health care, which the new institute will be charged with exploring.
 Jim Graham, president of U.A.W. Local 1112 in Lordstown, Ohio, said he was pleased that G.M. and U.A.W. officials realized the scope of the problem.
 ''I think it's a great idea,'' he said. ''That's where it's all at, in Washington. This should have been addressed years ago. National health care would take the burden off the corporations, making it easier to keep jobs in this country, rather than shipping them overseas.''
 Doug Rademacher, president of U.A.W. Local 602 in Lansing, Mich., said that because the U.A.W. agreed to a health care trust fund, G.M. now owes it to the union to take the proposed institute seriously.
 ''We did the VEBA, we handled what the crisis was in G.M.'s eyes, so I'm glad they've committed to this,'' he said.
 Ms. Bunker said the company planned to follow through. ''We have demonstrated that we are supportive of improving the quality and care of health care in the U.S. as well as of our employees, retirees and dependents,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Detroit autoworkers rallied for national health care in July. A new contract calls for carmakers' money to research the issue.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); FORD MOTOR CO (74%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNICATION INC (57%); INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE QUALITY INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%); SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



88 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; AGE OF RICHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2101 words

HEADLINE: $6 Million for the Co-op, Then Start to Renovate

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Julia Kim rapped her spiked Gucci heels along the floor of a Midtown furniture showroom earlier this year as she approached a $30,000 custom wraparound couch that will be the centerpiece of the Manhattan co-op apartment she plans to share with her fiance, Stephen Rushmore.
 With advice from Mr. Rushmore and their decorator, John Barman, Ms. Kim deliberated for more than half an hour over details like the density of the cushions, the number of pillows and the height of the seating. 
 This purchase was just one of many steps in the journey that began more than a year ago when Mr. Rushmore, a consultant, and Ms. Kim, a former banker who left her job to concentrate full time on renovating the new apartment, decided to buy a duplex just off Park Avenue for $6 million.
 Indeed, even after paying top dollar for a luxury apartment, most buyers see the need for more work. Like Mr. Rushmore and Ms. Kim, they often embark on costly and lengthy renovations intended to reflect not only their own taste but also their ambitions to find a perch in the social and economic swirl of today's Gilded Age. 
 These newly wealthy are crowding into the market not just to buy the city's most expensive homes, but to hire its most coveted decorators, surround themselves with dozens of remodeling specialists, and ultimately invite friends and colleagues to see their urban palaces.
 ''Getting the very best of New York real estate is an extension of who they think they are; it goes with the rest of their resume and portfolio,'' said Denise Lefrak Calicchio, a former broker with Sotheby's International Realty and part of a prominent New York real estate family.
 ''This trend is not going to go away because there are so many people who want these apartments,'' she explained. ''There's the new rich and there's the old rich. There's the poor rich and the rich rich.''
 Standing out in this crowd requires not just money but patience. In some of the most exclusive buildings, renovations must be completed under the constraints of rules that limit work to specific hours and the summer months, when many residents spend a lot of time at their second homes. Rupert Murdoch, for example, bought the penthouse at 834 Fifth Ave. in 2004 for $44 million. He has still not moved in.
 ''If you spend $20 million on an apartment, you want it to be right,'' said Edward Lee Cave, a high-end Manhattan real estate broker. ''And it's never absolutely right.''
 While the general housing market is cooling off in much of the country, brokers in New York say that the demand at the high end still resembles a luxury- home arms race. Manhattan residents in the third quarter of this year paid 19 percent more than they did a year earlier for co-ops with four bedrooms or more, compared with an 11 percent gain for the average one-bedroom apartment, according to data tracked by the brokerage firm Brown Harris Stevens.
 So far this year, 324 buyers purchased Manhattan apartments worth more than $5 million; of those 16 buyers closed on homes that cost more than $20 million, according to the research firm PropertyShark.com. Another 45 homes are on the market with asking prices of more than $20 million.
 ''Ten years ago the top price was $9 million,'' said Hall Willkie, the president of Brown Harris. But these days ''for those really top apartments, you're going to have to expect to pay in the 40s.'' As for Ms. Kim and Mr. Rushmore, their $1.5 million project to transform their Upper East Side apartment into a loft-like space has had plenty of ups and downs. By the time the apartment is finished, they expect about 50 workers -- including architects, lawyers, expediters, staircase builders and audiovisual installers -- to take part in the renovation. 
 The couple agreed that only after they get through the process, which is not scheduled to be completed until early next year, will they start planning their wedding.
 ''If we can make it through this apartment together,'' Ms. Kim said, ''we can make it.''
 Serial Renovation
 Many other wealthy Manhattan residents who complain about these costly purchases and time-consuming renovations find themselves in a Sisyphean cycle of buying and renovating. They say it is the only way to get what they want.
 Keith Rubenstein, who made his fortune in real estate investments, put down a deposit early this year to buy a $20 million 6,000-square-foot duplex in a new condominium project at 101 Warren Street in the financial district just south of TriBeCa.
 That alarmed his wife. Inga. She had spent the previous eight years renovating an apartment in Battery Park City and then the town house in the West Village where they currently live. She also has been working with a decorator on the property they are building in Fisher Island, Fla.
 Managing their homes is so complicated that Ms. Rubenstein has a wall of filing cabinets to keep track of these projects. She estimated that the new renovation would cost $5 million and would not be completed until 2009.
 In mid-April, the Rubensteins pulled out of the deal, saying that they did not want to have to tear out new luxury kitchens and bathrooms to make it fit their style preferences.
 ''We didn't want to deal with a full-scale renovation,'' Ms. Rubenstein said.
 But just recently, the couple closed on an Upper East Side town house -- Madonna had considered it for her New York home -- for which they paid $35 million. Now they face an even more ambitious renovation that involves installing a Russian bath and modeling a room after the Amber Room in Catherine's Palace, once the summer home of the czars in Pushkin, outside St. Petersburg. 
 Even though the renovation will not be finished until 2010, Ms. Rubenstein said that she has convinced herself it will be worth it because she plans to live there the rest of her life.
 ''I'm learning to enjoy it,'' she said.
 Mr. Rubenstein added in an e-mail message that he is also committed to giving money to charity. He said that he and his wife donate money to several local charitable and cultural organizations, and his wife spends time on Russian charitable causes.
 Even couples who buy up-to-date apartments can find that small projects can be costly and time-consuming. In November 2005, Paul Ezekiel, 42, and his wife, Tanya Kiskanyan, 36, bought a $3.4 million penthouse at the Dorilton in Lincoln Square from a couple who had divorced at the end of their renovation.
 Mr. Ezekial and Ms. Kiskanyan swore off renovations after fixing up a two-bedroom apartment in the same building four years before. Ms. Kiskanyan had to take several months off work and the couple cut their honeymoon short to finish the remodeling project.
 ''We could never do that again,'' she said. ''Life is too short.''
 But now they find themselves caught up in another project, remodeling their 2,000-square-foot terrace with plants, dining and seating areas and a Jacuzzi. This project has taken nearly two years of work with a landscape architect, delays worsened by the need to get approvals from city inspectors and their building's co-owners. The $400,000 project is worth it, they say, because they will have outdoor space to help relieve the stress of working on Wall Street.
 ''We work ridiculous hours,'' Ms. Kiskanyan said. ''We wanted something oasis-like.''
 Richard Thompson, the former chief executive of the Meow Mix cat food company, and his wife K.C. Thompson, a jewelry designer, found that some homes can be in shocking disrepair. After they sold their Upper East Side town house in 2004, Ms. Thompson said that all 20 apartments she visited required major gut renovations. One Fifth Avenue apartment she saw had exposed wiring and smelled of dog urine.
 So when the couple found a $5.9 million newly renovated three-bedroom coop, they bid on it within a hour of first viewing it. They moved into the apartment five months later.
 The Thompsons recently bought three separate two-bedroom apartments for their children in the newly converted Barbizon Hotel, which is being redone by the builder, for a combined $12 million. Ms. Thompson spent less than 10 minutes choosing the apartments from floor plans, said Sharon O'Brien, the building's broker. 
 Mr. Thompson said that he regarded the apartments as investments and that he and his wife would share the profits with their children, depending on how well they care for the apartments and whether they work. 
 ''I'm an investor,'' he said. ''I'm a capitalist. It was a good investment. It's O.K. to take your money and invest it in good things. I already spend a lot of money on charities.'' Among his charities, he said, was a program to renovate pet shelters across the nation. 
 The Thompsons view the apartments as wise investments because their children can move into an 80-year-old Upper East Side building without further renovation. 
 From Farm to High Rise
 Mr. Rushmore and Ms. Kim did not grow up in wealthy families, which is one reason they say that they view breaking into the luxury-home world such an adventure. Mr. Rushmore, 62, lived on a vegetable farm in Roslyn, N.Y., until he was 4 and then in what he described as a ''modest home'' in nearby East Williston on Long Island.
 Ms. Kim, 35, left South Korea with her family as an infant and moved to Paraguay, where she grew up on a chicken farm. She moved here at 18; her parents ran a sporting goods store in Brooklyn.
 The couple met when Ms. Kim worked at the hotel appraisal company Mr. Rushmore started in 1980 with $1,000 in savings. They did not start dating until several years later after Ms. Kim had left the firm, earned an M.B.A. degree and established her own banking career.
 Asked how he felt about spending such a large sum on a renovation, Mr. Rushmore said it was a fraction of the money that he gives to educational institutions. He said he had endowed a professorship at the Cornell School of Hotel Administration and a deanship at N.Y.U.'s hotel program and has made research donations to the Lausanne Hotel School. 
 ''I've given millions of dollars and committed to giving large sums of money every year, which I do,'' he said. ''I used to have a plane; I sold that. I used to have a boat; I sold that. This is my personal enjoyment.''
 From the start, Mr. Rushmore and Ms. Kim did not shrink from spending money to acquire their dream apartment. Once they found it, they did not quibble over price: it took them just a few minutes after walking into the apartment to make an offer. They quickly raised it by $500,000 to win it away from a rival. 
 They said that the process turned more stressful when they tried to hire a decorator experienced with renovating Manhattan's most exclusive homes. Ms. Kim said that the first two designers and three architects they met told them that they should turn their apartment into a minimalist space that resembled a modern art gallery. Ms. Kim wanted something she considered more livable. 
 Last August, they found Mr. Barman through an article in a home design magazine. Mr. Barman, who talks fast and types into his BlackBerry even faster, came over the next day. They were infatuated from the start.
 ''It was like a blind date,'' Ms. Kim said of meeting Mr. Barman, who is a Wharton graduate and whose clients have included the broadcaster Bryant Gumbel, the musician Wynton Marsalis and Larry Silverstein, the developer who controls the lease on the World Trade Center site. ''We were afraid we would not measure up.''
 Mr. Rushmore and Ms. Kim quickly learned that the curse of having a large renovation budget is that almost anything is possible. Take, for example, Mr. Rushmore's request for square bathroom drains like those he remembered from the Four Seasons Hotel George V in Paris. Mr. Barman tracked down a square drain that would have cost $700, which Mr. Rushmore and Ms. Kim decided was just too expensive.
 Even with professional help from a decorator, the renovation has swallowed up more time and altered their lives more than the couple ever expected. They moved into a one-bedroom rental nearby until the renovation was completed. They recently learned that they need more electrical power for the entire apartment.
 That meant a delay in ordering kitchen cabinets being built for them in Italy until their plans were approved. Because the Italian cabinet makers close their factory in August, they do not expect to get the cabinets until next year. 
 Still they are determined to move into their penthouse on Christmas Eve with their bed, toilet paper and toothbrushes. ''I find it fascinating,'' Ms. Kim said, ''that the sky is the limit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE TOP FLOOR: Workers are renovating the top floor of a $6 million duplex owned by Julia Kim and Stephen Rushmore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A14)
BUY, THEN RENOVATE: Julia Kim and Stephen Rushmore, top
Inga Rubenstein, above, oversees the installation of a painting
Richard Thompson, left, inspects one of three apartments he and his wife bought for their children. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE, DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A14) CHART: THE SKY'S THE LIMIT: Despite a downturn in housing nationally, real estate prices in Manhattan have continued to advance strongly, with the biggest gains occuring at the high end of the market. More than 3 percent of the homes sold in the third quarter of this year cost more than $5 million, compared with fewer than 0.5 percent, in inflation-adjusted dollars, 10 years earlier. (Source: Radar Logic) (pg. A14) Chart showing a steady rise in real estate prices in Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); AUCTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (66%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



89 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: The Killing Of a Cleric, And Its Aftermath

BYLINE: By RICHARD EDER

 BODY:
The Art Of Political Murder
 Who Killed The Bishop?
 By Francisco Goldman
 Illustrated. 396 pages. Grove Press. $25. 
 On April 26, 1998, Bishop Juan Gerardi Conedera, a big, outgoing man fond of conviviality and jokes, was celebrating with friends over Scotch in a Guatemala City garden.
 The festivities were for the completion of a monumental and monumentally dangerous task: the publication of a four-volume report about years of atrocities committed by the Guatemalan military in the course of its fight against rural guerrillas. It was prepared by the Roman Catholic Church's human rights commission in Guatemala, which the bishop headed. 
 By 1996, when a United Na tions-backed peace accord formally ended the 30-year conflict, 200,000 civilians had died, more than 90 percent of them killed and often tortured by the army, the report found. (The soldiers pulled down children playing in the trees, according to one of the hundreds of accounts, and beheaded them.) 
 The clergyman was no radical. ''If the poor are out of our lives, then, maybe, Christ is out of our lives,'' he wrote. That ''maybe'' gives his measure. What he preached was not liberation theology, but a moderate doctrine stressing the spiritual along with the social.
 But moderation under a decades-long regime of right-wing military and political atrocity is the reddest of red revolutions. Particularly when armed with the cheerful courage needed to publish the report, titled ''Guatemala: Never Again''. 
 What ''never again'' meant -- in terms of the continuing national nightmare -- was this: Not for a few hours. That night the bishop was beaten to death with a chunk of concrete after he drove into the rectory garage in his downtown parish church.
 It took nine years for the judicial system to reach and finally ratify guilty verdicts against three army intelligence officers and a collaborating priest -- the bishop's parish assistant -- and sentence each to 20 years' imprisonment. It went on to order further investigation of military and civilian officials at cloud-forest level: so high up, that is, that the mists veiling them may never clear.
 The Guatemalan-American novelist Francisco Goldman has entered a cloud forest sited in a hellish abyss. ''The Art of Political Murder'' explores and tries to decipher horrors entangled in horrors: lies, trumped-up alternate versions and shifting and reneging testimonies summoned to fight against the verdict.
 Though not managing to block it, these machinations produced a nebula of confusion that fogged not the fundamental judicial conclusion -- that a right-wing, mainly military conspiracy was responsible for countless abuses -- but the precise facts and details that supported it.
 The central premise of Mr. Goldman's passionate and stunningly researched book asks why the armed forces would need to assassinate Bishop Gerardi, since it was too late to stop the report from appearing.
 His provocative answer: It was not the bishop's death that was chiefly important but the miasma that could be conjured in its wake. There was a rolling tide of innuendo about corruption and criminal ties among the clergy (with rumors of homosexual activity as a particular condiment) among the investigators, and among rival military cliques using the deliberately troubled waters to spatter one another.
 All of this was spread by informers and by a campaign of officially sanctioned leaks and rumors that successively surfaced and sank, each appearing as the previous one disappeared. The purpose, Mr. Goldman concludes, was to discredit the reformers, in the church and outside it, who threatened the power and prosperity of the established military, political and economic hierarchies. 
 Very roughly, putting together the shifting evidence and contradictory testimonies: on the night of the 26th, the assassin gained access to the garage, possibly with the help and almost certainly with the knowledge of the assistant pastor, the Rev. Mario Orantes Najera. The assailant lay in wait for the bishop and bludgeoned him as he emerged from his car.
 Different accounts identify him as one of two men, both members of the army's powerful special operations and intelligence services. One was Sgt. Major Obdulio Villanueva, later murdered in jail. (A number of suspects and witnesses subsequently were killed, disappeared or fled the country.) The other, possibly invented, was said to be an army agent specializing in wet work.
 Capt. Byron Lima Oliva and his father, the retired colonel Byron Disrael Lima Estrada -- both extreme right-wingers and powerful figures in military intelligence -- were actively present. Captain Lima entered the garage, together with Sergeant Villanueva, to shift the body. His father monitored events from across the street.
 Testimony about the attack came mainly from Ruben Chanax Sontay, one of a number of vagrants who hung out in front of the church, and who, like many of them, was an informer for the military. Mr. Chanax said that Captain Lima and Sergeant Villanueva forced him to enter the garage and help with the corpse.
 That his versions -- which varied -- had holes in them was admitted by the investigators. Mr. Goldman, who interviewed him several times, resignedly describes him as a fabulist who knows the truth and sometimes tells it. There was enough support in other accounts, though, along with the contradictions, for the courts' verdicts on the two Limas, Sergeant Villanueva and Father Orantes (of a right-wing Catholic family and reportedly once identified by the bishop as an informer).
 Mr. Goldman can be hard to follow, though an index, a cast of characters and a chronology help considerably. His decision to use the rumors, the contradictions and the disinformation campaigns so abundantly and vividly, and to blend them sometimes indistinguishably into the story, add to the reader's difficulty.
 Yet there is a reason. What he is after is more than a crime. His book portrays the hysterical confusion, the dark fog (''Nacht und Nebel'' was the German World War II slogan for conquest) that power -- corrupt, ruthless and enduring -- can impose on a society, choking its instincts, blinding its sight and rendering truth not only hard to find but hard to distinguish even if it is found.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Francisco Goldman(PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY BAUER)(pg. B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MURDER (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); TORTURE (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (67%); WRITERS (66%); VERDICTS (62%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); RAIN FORESTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Art of Political Murder, The (Book)>; Art of Political Murder, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



90 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Bush Defends Interrogations, Saying Methods Aren't Torture

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
President Bush, reacting to a Congressional uproar over the disclosure of secret Justice Department legal opinions permitting the harsh interrogation of terrorism suspects, defended the methods on Friday, declaring, ''This government does not torture people.''
 The remarks, Mr. Bush's first public comments on the memorandums, came at a hastily arranged Oval Office appearance before reporters. It was billed as a talk on the economy, but after heralding new job statistics, Mr. Bush shifted course to a subject he does not often publicly discuss: a once-secret Central Intelligence Agency program to detain and interrogate high-profile terror suspects.
 ''I have put this program in place for a reason, and that is to better protect the American people,'' the president said, without mentioning the C.I.A. by name. ''And when we find somebody who may have information regarding a potential attack on America, you bet we're going to detain them, and you bet we're going to question them, because the American people expect us to find out information -- actionable intelligence so we can help protect them. That's our job.'' 
 Without confirming the existence of the memorandums or discussing the explicit techniques they authorized, Mr. Bush said the interrogation methods had been ''fully disclosed to appropriate members of Congress.'' 
 But his comments only provoked another round of recriminations on Capitol Hill, as Democrats ratcheted up their demands to see the classified memorandums, first reported Thursday by The New York Times. 
 ''The administration can't have it both ways,'' Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, the West Virginia Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in a statement after the president's remarks. ''I'm tired of these games. They can't say that Congress has been fully briefed while refusing to turn over key documents used to justify the legality of the program.''
 In two separate legal opinions written in 2005, the Justice Department authorized the C.I.A. to barrage terror suspects with a combination of painful physical and psychological tactics, including head-slapping, simulated drowning and frigid temperatures. 
 The memorandums were written just months after a Justice Department opinion in December 2004 declared torture ''abhorrent.''
 Administration officials have confirmed the existence of the classified opinions, but will not make them public, saying only that they approved techniques that were ''tough, safe, necessary and lawful.'' 
 On Friday, the deputy White House press secretary, Tony Fratto, took The Times to task for publishing the information, saying the newspaper had compromised America's security.
 ''I've had the awful responsibility to have to work with The New York Times and other news organizations on stories that involve the release of classified information,'' Mr. Fratto said. ''And I could tell you that every time I've dealt with any of these stories, I have felt that we have chipped away at the safety and security of America with the publication of this kind of information.''
 The memorandums, and the ensuing debate over them, go to the core of a central theme of the Bush administration: the expansive use of executive power in pursuit of terror suspects. 
 That theme has been a running controversy on Capitol Hill, where Democrats, and some Republicans, have been furious at the way the administration has kept them out of the loop. 
 The clash colored Congressional relations with Alberto R. Gonzales, the former attorney general. And by Friday, it was clear that the controversy would now spill over into the confirmation hearings for Michael B. Mukasey, the retired federal judge whom Mr. Bush has nominated to succeed Mr. Gonzales in running the Justice Department.
 Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, sent a letter to Mr. Mukasey asking him whether, if confirmed, he would provide lawmakers with the Justice Department memorandums.
 And Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat and Judiciary Committee member, said he expected the memorandums would become a central point in the Mukasey confirmation debate.
 ''When the president says the Justice Department says it's O.K., he means Alberto Gonzales said it was O.K.,'' Mr. Schumer, who has been a vocal backer of Mr. Mukasey, said in an interview. 
 ''Very few people are going to have much faith in that, and we do need to explore that.''
 The administration has been extremely careful with information about the C.I.A. program, which had been reported in the news media but was, officially at least, a secret until Mr. Bush himself publicly disclosed its existence in September 2006. 
 At the time, the president confirmed that the C.I.A. had held 14 high-profile terrorism suspects -- including the man thought to be the mastermind of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks -- in secret prisons, but said the detainees had been transferred to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
 The 2005 Justice Department opinions form the legal underpinning for the program. On Friday, the director of the C.I.A., Gen. Michael V. Hayden also defended the program, in an e-mail message to agency employees. 
 ''The story has sparked considerable comment,'' General Hayden wrote, referring to the account in The Times, ''including claims that the opinion opened the door to more harsh interrogation tactics and that information about the interrogation methods we actually have used has been withheld from our oversight committees in Congress. Neither assertion is true.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush addressed reporters in the Oval Office yesterday on the economy, then discussed the C.I.A.'s questioning of detainees. ''This government does not torture people,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NEWS REPORTING (76%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



91 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Rudy Finds A New Topic

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
WINDHAM, N.H.
 ''Fiscal. Discipline.'' 
 When Rudy Giuliani wants to make a point, he frequently opens his eyes very wide, eyebrows arched. The effect is eerily like Norma Desmond announcing that she's ready for her close-up. He was in full Desmond mode this week in New Hampshire, explaining why he should be the next president of the United States.
 People who live in New York tend to be a little stunned by the fact that their former mayor is the front-runner for the Republican nomination. Honestly, people, we thought you would have gotten over it by now. That the pictures of him in drag as Rudy/Rudina would have been enough all by themselves. Yet here he is, the leader of the pack. Obviously, the fishnet stockings went over better in South Carolina than we had anticipated. 
 To his credit, sort of, Giuliani has finally figured out that he cannot simply keep muttering ''9/11 ... 9/11 ... 9/11'' until February. The trick is finding something else Republicans are interested in, something that he has agreed with them about for more than six months. Which brings us back to: Fiscal. Discipline.
 ''New York City had government that was way out of control. I reduced the growth of government, and I reduced taxes 23 times,'' he tells the voters.
 When it comes to taking credit for reducing taxes, Giuliani has a fairly expansionist view. If it happened on his watch, it was his tax cut. If the tax in question happened to be a state tax, well -- he urged it. Urging counts.
 Giuliani does have bragging rights for coming into a liberal tax-and-spend government burdened with a huge deficit and balancing the budget. Unfortunately, his main opponent, Mitt Romney, has more or less the same resume. (Amazing how the two most opposite human beings in the world can look so identical on paper.) 
 ''Mayor Giuliani sued the Republican governor to keep in place the commuter tax! I lowered taxes on commuters!'' Romney declared at a gathering this week. In response, Giuliani rolled out former Massachusetts Republican Gov. Paul Cellucci to call Romney a desperate candidate and a wimpy tax cutter. 
 Giuliani's tax-cutting record really is better than Romney's. That is mainly because the mayor of New York has much more power to control budgets than the president, a governor or pretty much any chief executive this side of Vladimir Putin. (If the New York City Council was lost at sea, it would take months before anyone noticed.) The commuter tax had been imposed by the State Legislature a long time before, and any sane mayor would have fought to keep it. Only a politician like Rudy Giuliani, however, could create so much loathing that New York City legislators preferred losing the revenue for their own city to helping him out.
 When Giuliani and Romney talk about what they would do with the federal budget, they differ in very typical ways. Romney has been mind-bogglingly vacuous. Right now he's running ads bragging that he signed a No New Taxes pledge -- a megapander that even Mitt in less desperate times admitted was a gimmick. Obviously, with no new taxes, something's got to give, and Romney has been extremely unhelpful in explaining exactly what that should be. (''We've got to rein in spending!'') 
 Giuliani, ever the tough-talking warrior, promises he'll only fill half of the federal civil service jobs that become empty due to retirement, an effort that would reduce the number of workers by close to 20 percent over two terms.
 ''I have a very, very strong view that the smaller we can make government, the more prosperous our economy is going to be,'' he added. This is classic Rudy-rhetoric, which is heavy on the very-very. ''When I was mayor of New York City, I worked very, very hard to reduce the size of government. I will do the same thing as president.''
 The only problem is that this is never going to happen. To dramatically reduce the number of federal workers over the long run you'd have to eliminate something huge that Congress really likes. Not even Ronald (Holy Be His Name) Reagan did that. Giuliani worked very, very hard during his first term as mayor and cut city jobs by less than 10 percent. By the time his second term was over, many of them were back. Thanks to Bill Clinton, others were being paid with federal funds. The total size of the city's work force was almost exactly the same as when Giuliani first took office. And partly thanks to the cost of contracting out other services, he left his successor with a budget deficit that was worse than when he started out. 
 So what do you prefer, American voter, the guy who has a bold plan for controlling spending that is never going to work, or the one who would not say anything specific if you waterboarded him?
 Welcome to campaign 2008. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CITIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAX LAW (70%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



92 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Send In the Clowns

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
It's embarrassing.
 The U.S. is going through a transitional period at least as important as the early post-World War II years. New worlds in energy, technology, the economy and global interdependence are either upon us or coming fast.
 Yet much of the nation's top leadership is either wasting its time on complete nonsense or trying with great determination to push us back to the era of top hat and tails. 
 Among other things, Republicans are trying to figure out what to do about Larry Craig, the loony senator from Idaho who got caught in a public toilet behaving as if he thought the promised land was just one stall away.
 Democrats, unable to do anything about George W. Bush's policy of eternal war in Iraq, found themselves reduced to fulminating in official Congressional proceedings about the latest wackiness from Rush Limbaugh.
 Meanwhile, the president and his priceless band of can't-get-it-right-wingers, are busy vetoing health insurance for children, dreaming up secret torture protocols, funneling lucrative federal contracts to friends and cronies and fulfilling their paramount mission -- making the very rich richer.
 So much for leadership.
 The nation's failure to deal constructively with the new realities of employment, education, health care, retirement and so on has taken a toll.
 The Times's David Leonhardt, in a column that ran in September, noted that when Americans think about their lives in relation to the past, they are very upbeat. Life for most Americans is better than it was for their parents and grandparents.
 ''But,'' wrote Mr. Leonhardt, ''when the discussion is about the future, the national mood darkens. In one typical poll from last year, only 34 percent of people said they expected today's children to be better off than people are now, down from 55 percent when a similar question was asked in 1999.''
 Americans have every reason to be concerned. A study released last spring showed that men who are now in their 30s earn less than their fathers' generation did at the same age. The median income for men in their 30s in 1974, in today's inflation-adjusted dollars, was $40,210. According to the study, which used Census figures compiled for 2004, those annual earnings had dropped to $35,010.
 President Bush's unconscionable veto of the State Children's Health Insurance Program comes at a time when the number of uninsured children is rising and employer-based health insurance is going the way of rotary phones and carbon paper. That's not neglect. That's willfully doing harm to children.
 In the first two or three decades after World War II, there was a broad sense of optimism, a strongly held belief, despite many crises, that Americans could achieve great things. Men and women of talent and vision gave us the Marshall Plan, the G.I. Bill, the interstate highway program, the Peace Corps, the space program, the civil rights movement and much more.
 Where is the comparable vision for the early-21st century? Who is rallying America with the clarion call that we can do great things?
 From the Republicans, we get the message that the most important thing to hold on to is fear itself. The terrorists are out to get us. From the Democrats, heavily armed with thermometers, barometers and windmills, comes the usual timidity. They behave as if their hearts would stop if they actually took a tough stand.
 Meanwhile, there are many millions of Americans who are not doing well, and the nation is not addressing their plight. Thirty-seven million Americans, many of them children, are officially classified as poor. What is not widely known is that another 57 million are struggling just one notch above the poverty line. This is spelled out in a new book, ''The Missing Class: Portraits of the Near Poor in America,'' by Katherine Newman and Victor Tan Chen. 
 Near-poor Americans live in households with annual incomes of $20,000 to $40,000 for a family of four. They work at jobs that are highly unstable and offer few if any benefits. Many of their children would qualify for insurance coverage under the S-chip program that the president so coldly vetoed on Wednesday.
 No wonder so many Americans are turned off to politics. 
 One of the paramount challenges of the new era is the task of getting a legitimate four-year college degree into the hands of as many American young people as possible. A four-year degree has become a virtual prerequisite for a middle-class quality of life. The overall benefits to the country of such an explosive improvement in educational achievement are incalculable.
 But at the moment, the geniuses running the country can't even figure out how to cover the cost of keeping American children healthy. So we've got a way to go. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); VETO (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CHILDREN (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (67%); GRANDPARENTS (65%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (52%); CENSUS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); LARRY CRAIG (55%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



93 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Improving Fuel Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In his Oct. 3 column, ''Et Tu, Toyota?,'' Thomas L. Friedman takes Toyota to task for joining Chrysler, Ford and G.M. in opposition to the unworkable fuel economy standards included in the Senate energy bill. He argues that since these companies produce vehicles that meet higher mileage standards in Europe and Japan, they should be able to do the same in the United States. But if they build them, will anyone buy them? 
 In Europe and Japan, where gas prices are significantly higher, 60 percent of vehicle sales are compact or subcompact vehicles. In the United States, by contrast, the top-selling vehicle in 2006 was the Ford F-series pickup. No. 2 was the Chevy Silverado pickup, and the Dodge Ram pickup was No. 4. 
 Forcing automakers into a product mix that does not fit the United States market will not improve fuel economy or protect the environment -- and the large costs involved will be an economic disaster for automakers, workers and retirees.
 In recent negotiations with General Motors, our union pursued innovative solutions that protect jobs while also enhancing the company's competitive position. The same approach can work on fuel economy -- which is why the U.A.W. is proud to join Toyota, G.M. and other automakers in supporting the Hill-Terry bill. It's an economically feasible approach that protects American jobs, while increasing the corporate average fuel economy standards by as much as 40 percent -- the largest increase since CAFE regulations were first implemented in the 1970s.
 Ron Gettelfinger Pres., United Auto Workers Detroit, Oct. 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PICKUP TRUCKS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2007



94 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Letters: When Conservatives Threaten to Form a Third Party

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Values Test,'' by James C. Dobson (Op-Ed, Oct. 4):
 There is no better outcome for the Republican Party and American politics than Mr. Dobson's threat that Christian evangelical fundamentalists will coalesce into a third political party if the major presidential contenders do not pass their anti-abortion litmus test. 
 Standing alone, out from under the G.O.P. cloak, the true support base for legislated fundamentalist values would be revealed to be far less than that which has been wielded as a power broker within the Republican Party. 
 Ironically, if this came to pass, candidates could more closely heed Mr. Dobson's admonition that they run on principle rather than on electoral pressures, as they would be free to ignore this fringe element. Daniel J. Donoghue
 Barrington, Ill., Oct. 4, 2007
 To the Editor:
 James C. Dobson is not only wrong, but desperate. His thinly veiled threat to take votes away from the G.O.P. clearly shows that he has realized that the Republican Party is moving back toward its core principles and away from a radical social agenda. 
 A look at the polls shows us that the G.O.P. can nominate a socially moderate candidate for president, and our own polling found that 72 percent of self-identified Republicans believe that the government should not play a role in controlling family planning choices for women. 
 The real Republican majority is socially tolerant and is demanding a return to the core issues that have historically defined the Republican Party: real economic growth, cutting government waste and ensuring the safety of Americans at home and abroad.
 Jennifer Blei-Stockman
 Washington, Oct. 4, 2007
 The writer is co-chairwoman of the Republican Majority for Choice.
 To the Editor: 
 Looking over James C. Dobson's list of what would make a nominee for president acceptable -- a commitment to the sanctity of human life, the institution of marriage and other inviolable pro-family principles -- I wonder if he cares at all about the issues that actually affect real Americans every day. 
 What about education and health care and global warming? Shouldn't those perhaps play a role in deciding who should be our next president? 
 My goodness, for such a conservative fellow, not even national security and defeating those terrorists makes the list. 
 To me, this is yet another example of how the conservative Christian movement has managed to hijack the discussion of what makes a good leader. These things have nothing to do with running a country, keeping it safe and caring for its constituents.
 Holly Taines White
 Albany, Calif., Oct. 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TERRORISM (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RELIGION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WRITERS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); MARRIAGE (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ABORTION (56%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009



95 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
LENDER'S SERVICING UNIT SOLD A bid by the billionaire investor Wilbur L. Ross Jr. won the loan servicing unit of the bankrupt American Home Mortgage Investment Corporation, a lawyer for the unsecured creditors said yesterday.
 The purchase price, under a stalking horse agreement, will be from $430 million to $500 million, said the lawyer, Mark Indelicato of Hahn & Hessen. The company had been the 10th-largest American mortgage lender before filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Aug. 6. (REUTERS)
GOLDMAN IN JAPAN VENTUREGoldman Sachs and the fund management firm Aetos Capital plan to take over Simplex Investment Advisors, a Japanese property adviser, in a $1.4 billion deal. 
 Goldman and Aetos will offer 215,000 yen ($1,844) for each Simplex share, a 65 percent premium over Simplex's Thursday closing price of 130,000 yen. Shares of Simplex rose yesterday to 150,000 yen, up the daily limit of 15.4 percent, before trading was suspended. (REUTERS)
 FREMONT FACES LAWSUIT Fremont General, the California thrift that was ordered in March to stop making home loans, was accused in a lawsuit yesterday of using unfair and deceptive practices to sell subprime mortgages.
 Fremont sold loans in Massachusetts that were ''designed to fail,'' the Massachusetts attorney general, Martha Coakley, right, contends in the suit, filed in Suffolk Superior Court. The company also failed to monitor the brokers it used to make loans in the state, she said. Fremont called the lawsuit ''without merit.'' (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 CANADIAN JOBLESS RATE FALLS A higher-than-expected job growth rate reduced Canada's unemployment rate by 0.1 percentage points to 5.9 percent during September, Statistics Canada reported yesterday. The government agency said it was the first time that its jobless rate had dropped below 6 percent since 1974. 
 An estimated 51,000 jobs were added to the economy last month, bringing the employment growth rate for the first nine months of this year to 1.7 percent. Once again, the strongest job growth was in Alberta, home to much of Canada's oil and gas industry. Its unemployment rate, the lowest at the country, was 3.6 percent in September. IAN AUSTEN
 SAM'S CLUB REMOVES PATTIES The Sam's Club warehouse chain removed a brand of ground beef patties from its shelves nationwide after four children who ate the food, produced by Cargill, developed E. coli illness, company and health officials said yesterday. Cargill has also asked customers to return any remaining patties purchased after Aug. 26 to the store or destroy them. 
 The children became ill between Sept. 10 and Sept. 20 after eating ground beef patties that were bought frozen under the name American Chef's Selection Angus Beef Patties from three Sam's Club stores in the Minneapolis area. Sam's Club, which is owned by Wal-Mart Stores, voluntarily removed the product from its stores nationwide after the illnesses were reported, the company said. 
 The patties had an expiration date of Feb. 12, 2008, Sam's Club said. They were coded UPC 0002874907056 Item .700141. (AP)
 PLEA IN STOCK OPTIONS CASE The former chief financial officer of SafeNet Inc., Carole Argo, pleaded guilty to securities fraud in Federal District Court yesterday, saying she backdated employee stock options, including options for herself and the former chief executive, Anthony A. Caputo.
 Ms. Argo, 46, said Mr. Caputo asked her to backdate options as if they were granted on Oct. 1, 2001, a low point for the company's stock. Ms. Argo said she also backdated options for herself and another employee at the time. Ms. Argo and Mr. Caputo resigned last year. No criminal charges have been filed against Mr. Caputo. (DOW JONES/AP)
 TRUMP STOCK SOARS Stocks in the casino company headed by Donald J. Trump soared yesterday after a report that a Baltimore real estate developer was considering buying one or more of the company's properties.
 The Star-Ledger of Newark, citing unidentified sources, reported that the Cordish Company, which owns a $110 million retail shopping project just outside Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino, has been in talks with Trump Entertainment Resorts. Shares in Trump Entertainment Resorts jumped to $8.26, an increase of more than 18 percent. (AP) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BEEF (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (84%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); STATISTICS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (61%); E COLI (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOME MORTGAGE INVESTMENT CORP (91%); SAM'S CLUB (65%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

PERSON: MARTHA COAKLEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (54%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009



96 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Virginia Bauer, Donald Steckroth

 BODY:
Virginia S. Bauer and Judge Donald H. Steckroth were married yesterday in the chapel of the George Jay Gould Mansion at Georgian Court University in Lakewood, N.J. The Rev. Kevin Keelen, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony. 
 The bride, 51, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a vice president for public affairs at the Mack-Cali Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust in Edison, N.J., and a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Until July, she was the chief executive and secretary of the New Jersey Commerce, Economic Growth and Tourism Commission. She graduated from Rosemont College in Rosemont, Pa. She is a daughter of Virginia K. Samaras of Middletown, N.J., and the late Peter J. Samaras.
 The bride became a national advocate for 9/11 families after the death of her husband, W. David Bauer, in the attack on the World Trade Center, and successfully helped lobby for passage of a federal tax amnesty bill for the victims' families.
 The bridegroom, 60, who was a widower, is a judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey. He graduated from Seton Hall University, from which he also received his law degree. He is the son of Howard Steckroth of Brick, N.J., and the late Madelyn Steckroth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); RELIGION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); LOBBYING (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%); AMNESTY (52%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); MACK-CALI REALTY CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: CLI (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



97 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY12; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; THE CITY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 553 words

 BODY:
Those 'Deserted' Parks Certainly Draw a Crowd
 To the Editor:
 My experience of the strip of parkland that stretches north from Brooklyn Borough Hall toward the Brooklyn Bridge is definitely different from the assessment of Fred Kent, an urban anthropologist and the founder of the Project for Public Spaces who was profiled in ''Impresario of the Village Green'' (Sept. 30). 
 The series of parks that Mr. Kent cites as an example of near deserted space actually draws many people throughout the day. 
 Office workers eating lunch on the steps of Borough Hall are frequently entertained by musicians. A lively farmers' market on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays provides an opportunity for neighborhood folks and employees of downtown businesses to shop and interact.
 Older adults (some with attendants), lawyers conferring with clients, mothers with young children, people on their way to or from the post office and, yes, people who might be homeless use the benches that line the parks. 
 The plaza in front of the State Supreme Court building hums with activity throughout the week, and on weekends it provides a place for kids to ride their bikes and skateboard. 
 North across Tillary Street, the newly refurbished section that includes artificial turf is the center of daytime activity for many nannies and their little charges, as well as for local schoolchildren. In the evening and on weekends, families and soccer players of various ages make full use of the space. And Housing Works recently held a glorious family event there. 
 The path that encircles this section and the remainder of the park to the north is used regularly by runners, walkers, strollers, dog walkers and the occasional bicyclist. The northernmost area contains a broad expanse of lawn that early in the morning is a local dog park. At other times, it is a place where families play ball. 
 Early and late, people sit on the nearby benches reading, talking, napping or simply enjoying the quiet. The area is a welcome resource for dynamic and passive activity for people who live or work in downtown Brooklyn. 
 Ann Allen-Ryan Brooklyn Heights
 Luring High-Tech Jobs to New York State
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Why New York Stagnates'' (editorial, Sept. 23):
 We applaud your identification of the nanotechnology initiative as a ''bright spot'' in New York's drive for economic growth and your description of Albany as ''one of the more important nanotechnology locations in the world.''
 We also applaud your recognition of the New York program that partners ''top-flight educational institutions'' with business as the driver of this global initiative.
 The College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering of the University at Albany is the home of the Center of Excellence in Nanoelectronics -- the heart and soul of the Albany ''bright spot.'' 
 NanoCollege has attracted international high-tech companies from the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain and the Netherlands, along with I.B.M., to create a world-renowned $4.2 billion megacomplex for education, research and commercialization that employs 2,000 people and generates billions in business across the state.
 Alain E. Kaloyeros Albany
 The writer is vice president and chief administrative officer, College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering, University at Albany-SUNY. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (88%); FAMILY (88%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (84%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); DOGS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); ATHLETES (64%); WALKING & JOGGING (63%); NANOELECTRONICS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (53%); SOCCER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PROJECT FOR PUBLIC SPACES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



98 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1904 words

HEADLINE: India's Art, Booming and Shaking

BYLINE: By STEVEN HENRY MADOFF

 BODY:
Mumbai, India
 FOR an uninitiated Westerner, making your way to one of this city's new art galleries can be a disorienting study in contrasts. In the crowded streets behind the Taj Mahal Hotel Palace and Tower, where the air is heavy with the smell of gasoline and flowers, you are approached by women begging for money and food. Men shout invitations to enter their carpet shops or purchase wares like watches, magazines, leather jackets and cigarettes. 
 Then, from a narrow thoroughfare, you enter a courtyard where an old man sits wearing a black security uniform. He speaks no English but, when asked for directions, points toward a flight of wood stairs so worn they are bowed in the middle. At the top, a door is opened by a barefoot woman in a scarlet sari. Behind her is an art gallery as white and sleek as any space in Chelsea.
 These contradictions do not arise from any calculated exoticism. This is simply the new India. 
 ''It isn't as if we are not aware of what is happening in New York or Berlin or in China,'' the dealer Usha Mirchandani said in an interview at the gallery. ''It is just that we find ourselves in a new position, and we must find our own way. 
 ''We are an old civilization. We have untold treasures. But what has happened here in the last year and a half has changed things, with the economy booming and so much art being sold and the prices just going off the graph.''
 The Indian art world has more than changed. It has exploded. Prices have increased tenfold since 2002. In the last two years alone, they have nearly doubled. Works by India's top-selling contemporary artists -- Atul Dodiya and Subodh Gupta are the names most often cited -- can fetch hundreds of thousands of dollars. The auction price of paintings by the older generation of great Indian modernists, like M. F. Husain or F. N. Souza, can easily pass a million dollars -- hardly uncommon for leading Western artists but staggering in a country where the average income among the 1.1 billion residents is about $820 a year.
 Although the usual metaphors are marched out to describe the new art scene -- a Wild West, a gold rush -- there are signs that speculators have begun to pull back since the government imposed new capital gains taxes on art sales. Still, the global art world is enthralled. The abiding fascination with China's modish new art has now spread to its southwestern neighbor, with international dealers and curators flocking in to discover talent. 
 In the next few weeks alone, at least seven large-scale exhibitions of contemporary Indian art will open in Italy, Switzerland and the United States.
 Given the attention and fistfuls of money being thrown at Indian art, more and more galleries are opening or refashioning themselves. Some spaces are being retrofitted or built from scratch to accommodate bigger art and the more complex video or multimedia installations that are fresh additions to artistic practice in India. 
 In New Delhi, Gallery Espace, Vadehra Art Gallery and Talwar Gallery are three elegant examples. A fourth is Nature Morte, considered by many to be the pre-eminent gallery of contemporary art in India. It recently opened a second space in Delhi to house artists' projects and a third space in Kolkata with its New York partner, the gallery Bose Pacia. 
 Similar energy is gathering in Mumbai, where Galerie Mirchandani + Steinruecke, Bodhi Art (which has other spaces in New York, Delhi and Singapore), Sakshi Gallery, Project 88 and Chatterjee & Lal have all opened or moved and expanded during the market's rise.
 Shilpa Gupta, a 31-year-old artist based in New Delhi whose videos and installations are exhibited in Asia, Europe and the United States, echoes the breathlessness of the moment. ''It doesn't matter who's a star now,'' she said. ''It's so beautiful. You can hang out, chill out. We all know each other, and everyone is doing very well, and it's fantastic.''
 Yet paradoxes surface in even the briefest conversations with artists, dealers, collectors and writers here. 
 Money pouring into the art world from nonresident Indians who have made their fortunes in the United States and Europe, along with the racing engine of India's $4 trillion economy, has enabled artists to travel abroad far more often than they did before. But with this change has come the slow unraveling of the tightknit community that Ms. Gupta idealizes and that now gathers mostly at far-flung exhibition openings -- hardly the forum for intense discussions of issues and artwork. And for all its recent plenty, as the art consultant Jai Danani pointed out, the money has yet to bring its Midas touch to the Indian art world as a whole -- that is, to generate the largess needed to create art schools, studios and museums for contemporary art.
 Alongside the auctions, art openings and dinners at fashionable restaurants like Indigo in Mumbai, another reality sits on an unpaved street in Khirki village in southern New Delhi. There in a plain two-story building stands KHOJ workshops, the only residency program for contemporary artists in the entire country. Across the way, a man sleeps on bare ground near a family surrounded by a cloud of flies. Inside are five small studios on two floors for visiting artists. In the ''reference room,'' exhibition catalogs teeter in stacks on the floor, organized by subject categories jotted on sheets of paper taped to the walls. 
 Pooja Sood, KHOJ's ebullient founding director, has struggled to keep the center alive the last 10 years, creating partnerships with similar vanguard institutions in South Asia. The government has ''given up on contemporary art,'' she said; only the private sector supports fledgling institutions like hers and new art in general.
 The frustration is widespread. 
 Nikhil Chopra, a young performance artist in Mumbai, said: ''I can't believe we're a country of a billion people that doesn't have more than a couple of decent art schools, no contemporary art museum, no real funding, no group of trained curators fluent in contemporary art, no art criticism in the newspapers, just one serious art magazine, Art India, and only a few major collectors of contemporary work. In other words, no real infrastructure at all.''
 But there are signs that the situation is improving. A modern art museum is being planned for Kolkata. A leading collector, Anupam Poddar, will soon open the Devi Art Foundation's new headquarters in New Delhi to house his collection, organize exhibitions and hold lectures and talks. Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi now has a School of Arts and Aesthetics, a fairly sophisticated program of art history and cultural studies. Web sites have sprouted up that cover Indian art: mattersofart.com, artconcerns.com, indianartnews.com, along with the online auction site, saffronart.com. 
 Yet there is no doubt, as Peter Nagy, the owner of Nature Morte, put it, that the Indian art scene is in its ''pimply, adolescent phase.'' It is an art community in upheaval, straining to reinvent itself for the 21st century.
 The artists themselves, exposed firsthand to European and American art and artists as never before, with the Internet allowing them to sample whatever they care to see, find themselves in a fluid global arena of influence and identity. Their art is no longer confined to Indianness in subject or style, and the topic comes up without prompting in every conversation.
 Sipping lassi, a drink of yogurt and water, in his New Delhi studio on a recent afternoon, Subodh Gupta (no relation to Shilpa) said he had steadily resisted the encroachment of global tastes. As he spoke, two assistants nearby quietly polished the surfaces of ''Miter,'' a large, multipart sculpture of cascading stainless steel pots. 
 ''We are traveling, getting much more informed, and the information gives us useful knowledge,'' he said. ''But my work with these stainless steel pots and utensils comes from my lower-middle-class childhood, of memories of family and the rituals around food. This is my own language, my strength. If I make art just for the market, I am nothing.''
 Not everyone sees the work made today as so earnestly conceived. The editor of Art India, Abhay Sardesai, said that many artists were trying either to overlocalize or to overglobalize themselves, depending on how one views it, exploiting common symbols of Indian culture so that the ''local is flogged to create a spectacle for international consumption.''
 Yet it is the local, of course, that makes Indian work interesting as it climbs into the firmament of high-profile contemporary art. There is an almost infinite sense of locality here, with 22 languages, a sprawling literature dating back 3,500 years and a caldron of Hindu and Muslim conflict and coexistence in the largest democracy on the planet. 
 Gayatri Sinha, a critic and curator in New Delhi, suggests that more than any other source of influence, it is the politics of the subcontinent that mold the context in which Indian art is created today. Mr. Husain, generally considered the country's most distinguished painter, just spent his 92nd birthday in exile, forced out by threats from Hindu groups enraged by his paintings of nude gods and goddesses. 
 The filmmaker Amar Kanwar, who recently showed ''The Lightning Testimonies,'' his video installation about sexual violence to Indian women, at Documenta 12 in Kassel, Germany, said that artists in India are ''challenged ideologically every step of the way.''
 ''And yet this friction can be a source of great creativity,'' he added.
 ''This is an extremely intolerant society, an extremely racist society,'' he said in an interview at his office in a middle-class neighborhood in New Delhi. ''You will run into censorship, but you can make a place to work here.'' 
 ''Indian artists are showing all over the world,'' he said, ''and each day they have to decide how they will confront their society and themselves. They will be critical, or they will just make work for the market.''
 A note of defiance entered his voice, a note often heard in reply to questions on this issue: Why do Westerners assume that globalization only runs one way -- from West to East? 
 The dealer Deepak Talwar, with galleries in New York and New Delhi, said: ''The real history of modernism hasn't been written yet. It is all about Europe and New York. But that's hardly the whole of modernism. A hundred years from now, people will laugh at these narrow histories.''
 But in the meantime, the Indian art world is writing the latest chapter of its history at a frenetic pace. One night, Atul Dodiya and his wife, Anju, two of the most prominent contemporary artists, surveyed the crowd at a closing party at Chemould Gallery in Mumbai, one of the longest-running and most respected spaces for new art since its meager beginnings in the 1970s. The gallery's owners were bidding goodbye to their shoebox space of 800 square feet. 
 It was a moment of symbolic weight, the end of the old Indian art scene and the beginning of the new. Their polished new gallery, Chemould Prescott Road, is four times the size of the old.
 ''I have so many memories in this space,'' Mr. Dodiya said. ''It was almost a different world. We are happy for this boom, but I have to make art that means something to me, not just for the international market.
 ''The West may be with us, but India, India is very deep in the mind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, ''Three Painters''(1996) by Atul Dodiya (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIES IMAGES LTD.)
left Nikhil Chopra in ''Picnic,'' from his ''Sir Raja HI'' series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHATTERJEE & LAL GALLERY, MUMBAI)
The Devi Art Foundation, left, under construction in New Delhi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEVI ART FOUNDATION)
 At right, a 2007 work by Subodh Gupta. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK SHAINMAN GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); PAINTING (78%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (96%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



99 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Rebirth, and Then Relapse: Saints and Their City Are on Tenuous Footing

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
A year ago, the Saints started 3-0 in what became an inspiring season that ended one game short of the Super Bowl. It provided a symbol of renewal in this damaged city's recovery from Hurricane Katrina.
 ''They did more for the city last year than any team has done for any city ever,'' Peter Richiutti, the assistant dean of the business school at Tulane University, said of the Saints.
 This year, the Saints exist in Bizarro World. Everything is the opposite of what it was.
 New Orleans is 0-3 and ranked last in the N.F.L. in points allowed a game (34.3) and turnover differential (minus 8). The Saints' defense is the only one in the league without a sack. Their offense, ranked first in the league last season, now languishes near the bottom, stumbling about like a Bourbon Street conventioneer at last call. 
 Great anticipation by the fans has collapsed into stunned disbelief. The offensive line has been porous. Running back Deuce McAllister is lost for the season to a knee injury. Quarterback Drew Brees, forced into risky passing after his team has fallen behind, has thrown for one touchdown and seven interceptions. 
 The season hangs limply, lifelessly, like discarded Mardi Gras beads in the oak canopy along St. Charles Avenue.
 It is almost as if the Saints had time-traveled back to the early 1980s, when fans wore bags on their heads and the team lost so many games that it also lost a consonant, becoming the Aints.
 Only three teams have recovered from an 0-3 start to reach the postseason since the N.F.L. adopted its 12-team playoff format in 1990. At the same time, the league is designed for parity. There is time to resuscitate the season. The Saints seem less panicked than impatient to shake off their torpor.
 ''I think a lot of people would expect it to be a depressing situation,'' running back Reggie Bush said. ''But all of us are just chomping at the bit to get that first win.''
 Beginning with Sunday's game here against Carolina, Bush will become, in McAllister's absence, the Saints' featured back. It is a role he has longed for, but one many wonder if he is suited for.
 As a rookie last season, Bush, the 2005 Heisman Trophy winner, rushed for 100 yards only once, against the Giants on Dec. 24. At 6 feet and 203 pounds, he has yet to show that he can run consistently and durably between the tackles. His value comes from resourcefulness, the ability to run the ball evasively as a back, catch it in space as a receiver and advance it nimbly on punt returns. 
 Saints Coach Sean Payton said that Bush would probably carry the ball 18 to 20 times a game, but cautioned, ''We're not going to sit there and hand it to him 30 to 35 times.''
 Given that he is 30 pounds lighter than McAllister, Bush said, the key for him will be self-preservation -- knowing when falling down or darting out of bounds is more prudent than seeking to bull his way for extra yards.
 ''I'm confident I'll be able to carry the load and we won't miss a beat,'' Bush said.
 So far, fans seem more confused than irate.
 ''It's only three games; we're not bagheads yet,'' said Janet Speyrer, an economist at the University of New Orleans.
 So eager were the fans for this season that more than 68,000 season tickets were sold, with a waiting list of 25,000 to 30,000. All 137 luxury boxes at the Superdome are occupied for the first time, a team spokesman said.
 Despite the winless start, Saints flags continue to fly from cars. The team's fleur-de-lis symbol is visible all over town. Audubon Charter School continues its weekly spirit day during which students wear black and gold, the Saints' colors.
 After all, this is a city long accustomed to patience when it comes to the Saints, who have provided only eight winning seasons and two playoff victories in their previous 40 years of existence.
 ''We're standing by them,'' said Janice Dupuy, the principal of Audubon Charter School. ''If we can come back from Katrina, we can come back from an 0-3 start.''
 And if the Saints do not recover this season? Well, there are more urgent things to rehabilitate around here than an underachieving football team.
 ''We'll be disappointed, but Katrina was more than a disappointment,'' Dupuy said.
 Many neighborhoods remain ravaged. Crime is a continuing concern. The health care, legal and public school systems are in crisis. The state's housing recovery plan, called the Road Home, faces a shortfall of as much as $6.6 billion.
 The success or failure of the Saints, in the eyes of residents, is ''not going to change their view of their own prospects one whit,'' said John Logan, a Brown University sociologist, who conducted a post-Katrina study of New Orleans.
 Even if the Saints rally and advance to the Super Bowl, questions about the team's longevity here would persist, as they did before Katrina struck.
 The Saints are obligated to play through the 2010 season at the Superdome, which has had $185 million in renovations after the hurricane. Under its contract with the state of Louisiana, the team receives 100 percent of game-day revenue generated at the stadium from parking and concessions, and a subsidy of $186.5 million paid over 10 years.
 But Tom Benson, the Saints' owner, has explored leaving in the past, saying that his team plays in a small market with a limited number of corporate headquarters. Those concerns were exacerbated by Katrina.
 ''I don't think whether the Saints are successful on the field is going to be the deciding factor whether they stay,'' said Gary Roberts, the dean at the Indiana University School of Law at Indianapolis and the former head of the sports-law program at Tulane's law school.
 ''New Orleans has got to make a dramatic turnaround economically in the near future if the Saints have hope of staying in the long term,'' Roberts said. ''It was a very marginal market before Katrina. It is a smaller and poorer market post-Katrina.''
 Speyrer, the University of New Orleans economist, said the team's future here could depend on factors like financial cushioning by the N.F.L. and the state, the willingness of midsize companies to keep buying corporate suites, and the political climate after a new governor is elected this fall.
 ''That's in flux,'' she said.
 Richiutti, of Tulane's business school, said improving economic figures and the immense local commitment to the team led him to believe that the Saints would remain in New Orleans ''forever.'' 
 The Saints give New Orleans, and Louisiana, a sense of being major league. A new long-term deal with the team will probably be a high priority for the next governor, said Tim Coulon, chairman of the Louisiana Stadium and Exposition District. Some say a new stadium could be built between 2015 and 2020.
 ''No governor wants to be that governor who let an N.F.L. team go,'' Coulon said.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A sports article on Oct. 7 about the struggles of the Saints one season after their deep run in the N.F.L. playoffs misspelled the surname of the assistant dean of Tulane University's business school, who said the team had done more for New Orleans in 2006 than any team had ever done for any city. He is Peter Ricchiuti, not Richiutti.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With Deuce McAllister out for the season, Reggie Bush, above, is facing some questions as he becomes the featured back for the Saints (0-3).(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS GRAYTHEN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); HURRICANES (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); RANKINGS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (52%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (94%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



100 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Cambodia's Spirits Stir, Toe to Spine

BYLINE: By ERIKA KINETZ

 BODY:
Phnom Penh, Cambodia
 THE spirits came in February -- teachers, giants and angels. The first arrived on a windy Thursday, and they stayed, roiling on in succession through the small, supple body of Chao Socheata until her distraught mother dragged her to the local pagoda, where a monk pressed three broken sticks of incense to her head, beat her with the stems of a banana tree and wrapped a magical string around her waist. Protection enough, as it turned out, against the darker aspects of the spirit world. 
 Ms. Chao Socheata -- a 21-year-old dancer in ''Pamina Devi,'' the choreographer Sophiline Cheam Shapiro's retelling of Mozart's ''Magic Flute,'' which opens a six-day run on Tuesday at the Joyce Theater in Manhattan -- spent much of February weeping, part of it yelling and part of it in a kind of transfixed ecstasy in which she would teach things that she did not know. 
 When the spirit teachers came upon her, munificent and full of good, old ideas, the honor and the revelations were almost too great for her to bear. On Feb. 18, she passed out. That's when the monks were called in. But the lesson had been well taught: in Cambodian dance, as in Cambodian life, the spirits are always watching. 
 So, to some extent, is the government.
 In Cambodia, dance has long been a function of the state -- an emanation of power, first the king's, now that of the strongman government of Prime Minister Hun Sen. The state-run Royal University of Fine Arts here in the capital has a virtual monopoly on arts training, and many graduates go on to work in the ministry of culture or teach at the university. 
 In recent years, however, an avant garde of Cambodian artists, Ms. Shapiro among them, has been creating an alternative to the state's model. To make new art, they are finding, they have to change the way art is made.
 ''Pamina Devi,'' which the director Peter Sellars commissioned for the New Crowned Hope festival in Vienna last year, is a case in point. 
 Last year, Ms. Shapiro, who had moved to the United States in 1991, returned to Cambodia with her American husband, John. They set up shop on a five-acre estate just outside Phnom Penh, and early this year they founded the 31-member Khmer Arts Ensemble, Cambodia's first full-time independent dance company since the Khmer Rouge took over in 1975. 
 Dancers at the ensemble make $100 a month for full-time work. The ministry of culture is Cambodia's largest employer of dancers, paying them $30 to $50 a month, plus performance fees. (In comparison, jobs in local garment factories pay a minimum of $50 a month.) 
 ''Our goal over the next few years is to get up to a more livable wage, $300 to $500'' a month, said Mr. Shapiro, executive director of the Khmer Arts Academy, an umbrella group that includes the performance ensemble as well as a dance school in Long Beach, Calif. 
 The academy's total budget has grown to more than $500,000 this year, from $80,000 when they founded it in 2002. The Shapiros have grand plans. Mr. Shapiro says they'd like to start a dance research and publishing arm, an international exchange program and a costume shop. One can have such dreams in Cambodia, largely because costs in the country are so low.
 ''We thought about doing this in the United States,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''The economics didn't work out. An ensemble of 31 members -- that's a ballet company. It's really expensive.'' In Cambodia, $100 a month is a decent wage.
 Ms. Shapiro has deep roots within the government system. She was in the first class to graduate from the Royal University of Fine Arts after it reopened following the fall of the Khmer Rouge in 1979, and taught there for several years. Her uncle was the country's minister of culture in the 1980s.
 Mr. Shapiro says the couple tried at first to work within the system, but it wasn't a good fit. ''The university, like other systems in Cambodia, is a hierarchical system of patronage,'' he said. ''Sophiline doesn't have a high position in government. She's an individual artist. She says: 'I'm going to make a dance. I'm going to pay for it.' She's cutting off a lot of levels above her.''
 ''We want to take classical dance and give it more emotion and drama, to make dances that are critical of society,'' he continued. Old-guard government officials ''scratch their heads and say, 'Critical? That's not what dance is for,' '' he said. ''We have an entirely different concept of what art can be used for.'' 
 The Khmer Rouge, radical Communists who oversaw the deaths of about a quarter of the population in the late 1970s, devastated classical Cambodian arts. In the uneasy years since their overthrow by the Vietnamese, most artistic energies -- and money -- went into cultural preservation. Only now has attention begun to shift toward creation. 
 That shift has not gone down altogether smoothly. ''Pamina Devi'' is, in part, a story about the clash between men and women. But Mr. Shapiro said the ministry of culture would not let the ensemble use male dancers -- too radical a departure from the female-dominated canon. Instead, the women playing male characters wear pants.
 Khim Sarith and Him Chhem, secretaries of state at the culture ministry, said they were unaware of the decision by a previous minister to bar the company from using men. Through a translator, Mr. Him Chhem explained that classical court dance was traditionally dominated by women. He said he had yet to see ''Pamina Devi'' but hoped Ms. Shapiro would ground her work in a clear understanding of the form. 
 The government can exert subtle control in many ways short of outright censorship. Some of Ms. Shapiro's dancers still work for the ministry and thus are especially vulnerable. 
 ''We are glad to have more dance companies if they can apply all the ministry's requirements to preserve our Cambodian dance,'' Mr. Khim Sarith said. 
 Innovation is fine, he said, as long as it does not damage the integrity of the form. ''We need preservation and innovation,'' he said, ''but the innovation must apply the basic foundation and style of the dance.'' 
 Cambodian dance began as a form of religious devotion, and those spiritual roots are very much on Ms. Shapiro's mind. The week before leaving for the five-city United States tour, Ms. Shapiro and her company held a lavish ''teacher spirit'' ceremony (''Sampeah Kru'') at their studios. On silver trays, they laid out offerings of pigs' heads, chickens, ducks and tropical fruits. There were thick banana stalks garlanded with fresh jasmine and topped with hard-boiled eggs. 
 ''It's a way of showing respect for our teachers and asking the teachers to guide us,'' Ms. Shapiro said. ''We believe our teachers' spirits are watching us, to make sure we respect the dance and aren't fooling around.'' 
 Classical Cambodian court dance, of which ''Pamina Devi'' is an example, consists of a slow unfolding of fixed gestures. Hands open into flowers; fingers fold into thorns or trace the path of a tear. Everything curves. Toes curl up, fingers bend backward, the spine takes on a dangerous sway. It's best, really, to give up all modern notions of time and accept that this dance can be no more rushed than the sea. 
 ''Dances were a form of prayer: they connect earth to heaven,'' Ms. Shapiro said. ''The slowness is to maintain a sense of spirituality. It is a way of praying.'' 
 She has turned Mozart's ''Magic Flute'' into a kind of modern Cambodian morality tale. Depending on one's perspective, it's about responsibility shirked, the dangers of ideology, the children of conflict and one young woman who grows up to find strength in herself.
 ''There's a new energy coming up,'' Ms. Shapiro said. ''There's a desire to catch up with the rest of the world. We've been falling behind for so many years; we want to catch up. The nation is in a process of transforming.'' 
 Her distinctive blend of old and new is an inspiration, said Hang Borin, 27, a teacher at the Royal University of Fine Arts, who started an experimental dance ensemble called Trei Visay (Compass) with his friends last year. ''She brings foreign stories and makes classical dances,'' he said. ''She has good ideas.'' 
 Pumtheara Chenda, 21, who dances the role of Pamina Devi and used to perform with the Ministry of Culture's classical dance troupe, said she liked working with Ms. Shapiro because she learned about the depths of a dance, not merely its steps. 
 ''When I performed with the ministry, I just know how to perform, but I don't know what it means,'' she said. ''They don't explain about the story. They just say, 'Do this, do that.' I knew nothing. With Sophiline, I know the story.'' 
 Ms. Chao Socheata, who has recovered from the spirits that ailed her earlier this year, plays Preah Arun Tipadey, the Sarastro role. She likes the story of Pamina Devi, who is caught in a battle between her mother and a father figure, ''because it's about parents who don't understand their children and don't pay attention to their children,'' she said through a translator. ''It relates to my personal life.'' 
 She said that the spirits still visit sometimes when she dances. ''My body knows the spirits come,'' she said. ''But it's just to watch, not to possess.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the Khmer Arts Academy performing ''Pamina Devi,'' an adaptation of Mozart's ''Magic Flute.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN VINK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); DANCERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); DANCE (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (75%); CHOREOGRAPHY (75%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); APPAREL MFG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) CAMBODIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



101 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: While Steinbrenner Spends, Yankees Can't Buy a Win

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
George Steinbrenner is not happy. I haven't had to talk to him to know that. I haven't had to talk to anyone who has talked to Steinbrenner to know that. Be assured, though, that he is not happy. His team is on the brink of elimination from the first round of the postseason for the third consecutive season.
 And with the Cleveland Indians ahead, two games to none, the Yankees are in danger of being swept in a postseason series for the first time since the 1980 league championship series against Kansas City. The Yankees played 28 postseason series between that one and this one. 
 A couple of weeks ago, the word at the Yankee Stadium offices was that Steinbrenner would attend one or more division series games in the Bronx. If he had planned to be at tonight's game, he may want to reconsider. 
 Watching his team expire prematurely before his eyes may be too much agony for the 77-year-old Steinbrenner to endure.
 Everyone knows Steinbrenner is a demanding owner who doesn't take defeat easily. But I have come up with a 10-figure reason why he insists on his team winning, demands that it does. The idea isn't new or revealing, but the number is.
 In the 13 consecutive years that the Yankees have played postseason games, 1995 through 2007, they have spent just short of $1.6 billion on their payrolls -- $1,589,672,681 to be more precise.
 This figure is not readily available, like batting averages and earned run averages. But it was compiled from data obtained from various baseball offices. It's a real number. It's a mind-boggling number. The man spends between $1 billion and $2 billion, and he expects to get the return he wants. You spend $50,000 a year for college tuition, you expect your child to get a degree.
 All right, the Yankees gave Steinbrenner four World Series championships in a five-year stretch, but what have they done for him lately? Right now they are down by two games to none to a team with a payroll not quite one-third of theirs. A team from his hometown yet.
 In 2001, the Yankees, with a $109 million payroll, lost the World Series to the Diamondbacks, a team that paid its players $80 million. Two years later, the Marlins, a team with a significantly smaller payroll at $48 million, beat the Yankees and their $150 million players in the World Series. The past three years, the Yankees haven't even reached the World Series, and now they are one loss away from making sure it doesn't happen this year.
 All four of the division series were 2-0 entering yesterday, with the Yankees, the Angels and the Cubs heading home to play Game 3. The Phillies were on the road.
 In three of the four series, the team with the lower payroll was ahead -- the Indians ($70.5 million) over the Yankees ($216 million), the Rockies ($60.6 million) in front of the Phillies ($100.6 million), and the Diamondbacks ($69.8 million) up on the Cubs ($113.5 million). 
 With the Rockies, ranked 26th among the 30 teams in payroll, the Diamondbacks (23rd) and the Indians (22nd) in these playoffs, Major League Baseball has its largest postseason representation ever of low-payroll teams.
 Indians General Manager Mark Shapiro, who should be the executive of the year for the impressive way he has made Cleveland a division champion, put the economic difference between his team and the Yankees in context Friday.
 ''They had a $20 million pinch-hitter last night,'' he said, referring to Jason Giambi. ''That's a third of our team.''
 Giambi's salary isn't quite a third of the Indians' payroll, but it's close enough. Who's going to quibble over a few million dollars?
 Putting the Yankees' payroll expenditures in another perspective, the Atlanta Braves spent $917 million in winning an unparalleled 14 consecutive division championships. Salaries were lower in the first few years of the Braves' run in the early 1990s, but the Yankees' total nevertheless dwarfs theirs.
 The Yankees' $1.59 billion expenditure during the last 13 years is, not surprisingly, well ahead of the runner-up spenders, the Red Sox at $1.15 billion, the Dodgers at $1.04 billion and the Mets at $1.01 billion.
 As unhappy as Steinbrenner likely is over not getting to or winning more World Series, the Yankees have at least made the postseason the past 13 years, giving them an annual return for their money. Of the three teams behind them in payroll spending during those 13 years, the Red Sox have reached the postseason seven times, the Dodgers four times and the Mets three times. 
 How do you think Fred Wilpon, the Mets' principal owner, feels about the return on his money? Wilpon's spending philosophy isn't in Steinbrenner's book, but because he feels the need to compete with the Yankees in New York, for fans and prestige, he spends more than he would like to.
 But a year like this one is especially painful for him. The Mets' $119 million payroll was the fourth highest this year, and the Mets aren't playing this weekend. 
 Of course, the Yankees may not play after this weekend, and Steinbrenner's pain will pierce his competitive and economic soul.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Steinbrenner's Yankees are a loss from first-round elimination against the Indians in a postseason full of clubs with more modest payrolls.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE NESIUS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASEBALL (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); TUITION FEES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



102 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; NUCLEAR BUYOUT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 437 words

 BODY:
THE NEWS North Korea agreed to disable all its nuclear facilities by the end of 2007, in exchange for 950,000 metric tons of heavy fuel oil.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The first 50,000-ton consignment of ''fuel oil'' will actually be $25 million in economic aid, because North Korea currently has no place to put all the oil it has been promised and needs help expanding its facilities. The price has nearly doubled from 1994, when North Korea promised to freeze and eventually shut its nuclear program for 500,000 metric tons. 
 THE NEWS Blackwater USA, the private contractor providing security services in Iraq, bills the State Department $1,222 a day -- equivalent to $445,891 a year -- for each ''protective security specialist'' (guard), according to a report by the majority staff of a House committee investigating the company. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The figure is six to nine times what it would cost to have an Army sergeant do the same work, the report said. Blackwater's chief executive told the committee that the rates the company charged were reasonable. 
 THE NEWS After an employee of Blackwater USA shot and killed a guard for Iraq's vice president, the company paid the dead man's family $15,000 in compensation, according to the staff report. In another case where a Blackwater guard killed an innocent Iraqi, the company paid $5,000.
 BEHIND THE NEWS American diplomats first suggested paying the Iraqi guard's family $250,000, then $100,000, but security officials objected, saying sums so large would encourage Iraqis to ''try to get killed'' to aid their families. 
 THE NEWS The British rock band Radiohead said it was taking orders for its new album, ''In Rainbows,'' due for release Wednesday as a digital download, at whatever price fans wanted to pay.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Though the band's Web site accepts offers as low as a British penny, or nothing, there were signs that most fans were volunteering to pay $2 to $10 -- nearly what iTunes charges for album downloads. Fans seemed happy that the band, including lead singer Thom Yorke, above, would get the money, not a record company.
 THE NEWS Paramount Vantage is rushing to relocate three Afghan child actors and their families out of Kabul, and has put off releasing the film they appear in, ''The Kite Runner,'' out of fear that a rape scene will inflame ethnic tensions and endanger their lives. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The three boys were each paid $1,000 to $1,500 a week during filming, well below American union scale but much more than most Afghan actors earn. The country has hardly any movie theaters, but pirated DVDs of new films circulate quickly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); RELOCATIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); POP & ROCK (68%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RECORD RELEASES (67%); SHOOTINGS (66%); MOVIE FILMING (64%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); FILM (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (95%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (78%) IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



103 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Three Strategies That Kept Sizzling

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
SELDOM is the stock market only for bulls or only for bears. When some sectors swoon, others often surge. So it was in the third quarter. 
 Troubles with subprime loans affected the banking business, and many financial stocks sank during the summer. But fledgling stock markets in the developing world, especially in China, kept sizzling, and the energy sector continued its long surge. In one way or another, the managers of three of the stock mutual funds with top performance in the third quarter -- CGM Focus, Janus Orion and T. Rowe Price New Asia -- managed to exploit the developing world's boom or the oil industry's gains. 
 Zigzagging to Big Gains 
 Ken Heebner, manager of CGM Focus, achieved a double distinction with his fund. He placed among the top performers for the most recent quarter and the five-year period. For the quarter, CGM Focus, which invests mainly in large-capitalization domestic stocks, returned 30.3 percent, while for the five years ended Sept. 30, it returned 32.9 percent, annualized. 
 Mr. Heebner's offering isn't for the faint-hearted. He shovels shareholders' money into relatively few stocks -- 23 in late September -- and rapidly zips in and out of investments. ''When I buy a stock I say, 'What factors would cause me to change my view?''' he said. ''If I see them, I immediately sell. And if I see something I like better, I immediately sell. If there's an emerging opportunity, I don't want to miss it.'' 
 As a result, his portfolio has a higher-than-average annual turnover rate -- 333 percent, versus 90 percent for the average stock mutual fund, according to Morningstar. His returns also zigzag more than those of other funds in his Morningstar peer group. 
 Mr. Heebner sniffs out trends -- economic, social or demographic -- and then tries to find well-run companies poised to benefit from them. Lately, that has meant loading up on energy shares. On June 30, the most recent date for which data is available, he held the American depositary receipts of Petroleo Brasileiro, the giant Brazilian oil company, and Cnooc, one of China's big producers, as well as shares in several oil services outfits. Energy stocks accounted for a third of his portfolio. 
 ''Declines in the major oil fields are going to make it difficult to increase global production levels,'' he said, ''so I think the price will remain on an upward trend.'' 
 Rising wealth in the developing world also led him to invest in two fertilizer makers -- the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan and the Mosaic Company in Plymouth, Minn.
 As developing countries grow richer, their citizens will want to consume more meat. ''That'll drive up grain consumption because cattle need lots of food,'' Mr. Heebner said. 
 Couple hungry cows with long-term demand in the United States for corn-derived ethanol as a fuel additive, and grain prices should rise. ''With farm incomes up, farmers can afford more fertilizer,'' he added. 
 In Search of Moats
 A hefty stake in the Potash Corporation also helped power the third-quarter returns of the Janus Orion fund, managed by Ron Sachs, who is less interested in big trends than in locating businesses with sustainable competitive advantages or, as he calls them, moats. He likes to hang onto shares, changing only about a third of his portfolio each year. 
 Potash piqued his interest because it dominates its niche in North America. 
 ''They're like the Saudis in OPEC,'' he said. A rival would have to spend more than $1 billion and toil for several years to open a potash mine, he said. That protects the company from competition. 
 In contrast to Mr. Heebner, Mr. Sachs has lately shunned the energy sector, despite its multiyear run. 
 ''In the last 12 months, when I look at energy, the first question is always, 'What's the price of oil?' That question seems more important than any company's fundamentals.'' 
 At the end of the year, Mr. Sachs will leave Orion to manage two other Janus funds -- Twenty and Adviser Forty. Taking over at Orion will be John C. Eisinger, a Janus analyst.
 Mr. Eisinger said his strategy would resemble Mr. Sachs's. ''Ron and I are both looking for misunderstood opportunities and wide moats,'' he said. ''The fund will continue to be a concentrated portfolio with most of the assets in the top 20 to 30 names and no more than 50 names.'' 
 Focus on China and India
 If anyone is well situated to benefit from the growth in Asia, it may be funds that invest exclusively in the continent's companies, like T. Rowe Price New Asia, managed by Frances Dydasco.
 Ms. Dydasco, based in Singapore, can put her shareholders' money to work in any Asian country except Japan, but she concentrates her holdings in China and India. 
 Lately, she and Price's eight Asia analysts have been drawn to the financial sector. Four of her fund's 10 top holdings were in that category on Aug. 31, and the sector accounted for nearly 28 percent of the fund's assets, its largest stake in any one industry. She likes insurers like Ping An of China, which she said should thrive as people accumulate wealth. 
 Mutual funds that invest in China dominated the list of the top international funds for the third quarter, reflecting the outsize performance of its stock market; for instance, the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite index was up more than 107.5 percent in the first nine months.
 That's prompting talk about a bubble and of its inevitable bursting. Ms. Dydasco said that the country's shares were becoming less volatile than they were in the past. 
 As local institutional investors grow in size and confidence, she said, they're more willing to step in as buyers when foreign investors become skittish and sell off shares. That should damp some of the market's swings. 
 ''We will get sell-offs,'' she said. ''So we'll see value from time to time, but it won't last as long as it used to.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Frances Dydasco manages T. Rowe Price New Asia. Four of its top 10 holdings have been in the financial sector
Ron Sachs, left, manager of the Janus Orion fund. John C. Eisinger, right, will take over management of the fund next year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ken Heebner, manager of CGM Focus, was among the top performers for the most recent quarter and the five-year period. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY ARGUILLA-TULL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) GRAPHS: AHEAD OF THE PACK: How three of the best-performing stock funds in the last quarter fared against the overall market and against their peer groups. (Sources: Morningstar Inc., Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); TRENDS (86%); FERTILIZER MFG (84%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); FERTILIZERS (60%)

COMPANY: POTASH CORP OF SASKATCHEWAN INC (60%); MOSAIC CO (60%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (52%)

TICKER: POT (TSX) (60%); POT (NYSE) (60%); MOS (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212392 PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (60%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (60%); NAICS325312 PHOSPHATIC FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (67%) CHINA (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



104 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Charge It To My Kids

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Every so often a quote comes out of the Bush administration that leaves you asking: Am I crazy or are they? I had one of those moments last week when Dana Perino, the White House press secretary, was asked about a proposal by some Congressional Democrats to levy a surtax to pay for the Iraq war, and she responded, ''We've always known that Democrats seem to revert to type, and they are willing to raise taxes on just about anything.''
 Yes, those silly Democrats. They'll raise taxes for anything, even -- get this -- to pay for a war! 
 And if we did raise taxes to pay for our war to bring a measure of democracy to the Arab world, ''does anyone seriously believe that the Democrats are going to end these new taxes that they're asking the American people to pay at a time when it's not necessary to pay them?'' added Ms. Perino. ''I just think it's completely fiscally irresponsible.''
 Friends, we are through the looking glass. It is now ''fiscally irresponsible'' to want to pay for a war with a tax. These democrats just don't understand: the tooth fairy pays for wars. Of course she does -- the tooth fairy leaves the money at the end of every month under Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson's pillow. And what a big pillow it is! My God, what will the Democrats come up with next? Taxes to rebuild bridges or schools or high-speed rail or our lagging broadband networks? No, no, the tooth fairy covers all that. She borrows the money from China and leaves it under Paulson's pillow.
 Of course, we can pay for the Iraq war without a tax increase. The question is, can we pay for it and be making the investments in infrastructure, science and education needed to propel our country into the 21st century? Visit Singapore, Japan, Korea, China or parts of Europe today and you'll discover that the infrastructure in our country is not keeping pace with our peers'.
 We can pay for anything today if we want to stop investing in tomorrow. The president has already slashed the National Institutes of Health research funding the past two years. His 2008 budget wants us to cut money for vocational training, infrastructure and many student aid programs.
 Does the Bush team really believe that if we had a $1-a-gallon gasoline tax -- which could reduce our dependence on Middle East oil dictators, and reduce payroll taxes for low-income workers, pay down the deficit and fund the development of renewable energy -- we would be worse off as a country? 
 Excuse me, Ms. Perino, but I wish Republicans would revert to type. I thought they were, well, conservatives -- the kind of people who saved for rainy days, who invested in tomorrow for their kids, folks who didn't believe in free lunches or free wars.
 No wonder The Wall Street Journal had a story Tuesday headlined, ''G.O.P. Is Losing Grip on Core Business Vote.'' It noted that traditional fiscal conservatives were defecting from the G.O.P. ''angered by the growth of government spending during the six years that Republicans controlled both the White House and Congress.'' And no wonder Alan Greenspan told The Journal: ''The Republican Party, which ruled the House, the Senate and the presidency, I no longer recognize.''
 Of course, the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, the Democrat David Obey, in proposing an Iraq war tax to help balance the budget was expressing his displeasure with the war. But he was also making a very important point when he said, ''If this war is important enough to fight, then it ought to be important enough to pay for.'' 
 The struggle against radical Islam is the fight of our generation. We all need to pitch in -- not charge it on our children's Visa cards. Previous American generations connected with our troops by making sacrifices at home -- we've never passed on the entire cost of a war to the next generation, said Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International, who has written a history -- ''The Price of Liberty'' -- about how America has paid for its wars since 1776.
 ''In every major war we have fought in the 19th and 20th centuries,'' said Mr. Hormats, ''Americans have been asked to pay higher taxes -- and nonessential programs have been cut -- to support the military effort. Yet during this Iraq war, taxes have been lowered and domestic spending has climbed. In contrast to World War I, World War II, the Korean War and Vietnam, for most Americans this conflict has entailed no economic sacrifice. The only people really sacrificing for this war are the troops and their families.'' 
 In his celebrated Farewell Address, Mr. Hormats noted, George Washington warned against ''ungenerously throwing upon posterity the burdens we ourselves ought to bear.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); FUEL TAX (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); SCIENCE FUNDING (69%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (64%); BROADBAND (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (60%); GASOLINE (60%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



105 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Style Desk; THE AGE OF DISSONANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Labor Talks

BYLINE: By BOB MORRIS. 
E-mail: Bobmorris@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The woman seated next to me looked familiar. It wasn't surprising, because the lunch was full of movers and shakers. I used the best ice-breaker I knew.
 ''What's been keeping you busy these days?'' I asked.
 She told me she's still on a prime-time network news show. 
 I blushed. Did I just insult a broadcast icon I should have known? Or did she answer my question in the most literal way possible? 
 Conversation is often perilous. And for many people, asking what someone does for a living is still considered as rude as asking how much their apartment costs. ''It's a buzz kill that ruins spontaneous encounters and reduces things to shop talk,'' said Jon Bing, an author and a public relations executive. ''And it's way too literal.''
 In Europe, where as far back as the 16th century, Michel de Montaigne wrote about conversation as a pleasurable sport, discussing work in social situations is always eschewed. Ideas, politics, travel and culture are all better topics than one's job. 
 Here, where social stature is all about career, we use the expression ''to work a party'' with the glee that only a nation snookered by Donald Trump would understand. 
 Those of us who know better try to find ways to ask more circuitously. ''What's keeping you busy these days?'' or ''Did you just come from work?'' are two ways to get to the heart of matters without appearing so heartless.
 ''But from the direct sales pitch to a play for the good will of influential people,'' writes Judith Martin, also known as Miss Manners, ''the rule is that if it is designed to advance your career it isn't conversation.'' She also suggests that asking about work may backfire as a social lubricant. ''As successful people are afraid of being used, unsuccessful people are afraid of being snubbed,'' she writes.
 In New York, Washington and Los Angeles, where ambition runs at a fever pitch, people are particularly intent on reducing you to your job. And heaven forbid you have one that isn't as attention-grabbing as Anderson Cooper's. The only thing worse is not having one at all. An unemployed neighbor has a pre-emptive answer when asked about her career. ''I just say that I'm busy settling the family estate,'' she said.
 Better than saying she's consulting, I guess. Remember when everyone was using that line? Now, you're more likely to run into self-actualizing stay-at-home parents who are working out how they feel about it, often by way of a blog or a novel. 
 When I made the mistake of asking a tablemate what she did recently, she said somewhat crossly, ''I'm just a housewife.'' It threw me. Even without the word just in her answer, it would have been disconcerting. Was she insecure about her life? 
 It forced me to work hard to be sure she knew I respected her choice to be a full-time mother. But really, what difference does it make what I thought? 
 ''New Yorkers are always asking what you do to see if you're interesting,'' said Penelope Trunk, the author of ''Brazen Careerist,'' and a columnist for The Boston Globe.
 ''But in other cities asking people what they do is a totally reasonable question,'' she said, ''because they aren't going to feel judged by the answer they give you.''
 And if they are unhappy with their jobs, it allows them a chance to talk about it openly. ''Honest people are more soulful and interesting,'' she said.
 Which is the way, after awhile, the conversation went at my luncheon with the veteran broadcast journalist. She admitted she was unhappy with her job, given all the changes in television news these days. She talked about her fantasy of writing a play about a historic figure. In turn, I told her about the book I'm writing about my dad.
 It was an invigorating conversation that had nothing to do with the investment in our jobs and everything to do with an investment in what inspires us. 
 Maybe the problem with ''What do you do?'' isn't the question. It's the answer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVICE COLUMNS (76%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (75%); WRITERS (68%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



106 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Nerves Exposed, 2nd Ave. Waits For Its Subway

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
To entice buyers to spend $1 million for one-bedroom apartments on the less glossy eastern edge of the Upper East Side, the builders of a shimmering glass tower going up at 91st Street and First Avenue advertise customized stone countertops, a private fitness center, ''expansive sunrise and sunset views'' -- and the Second Avenue subway.
 Now that construction crews have started work on the Second Avenue line after decades of delays, bullish real estate brokers and nervous neighborhood tenants alike expect New York's first new subway in 50 years to join the market forces that are driving Park Avenue-style prices farther east and replacing quirky Hungarian shops with high-end chain stores.
 Ending commuters' long walk west to the Lexington Avenue subway will bring new cachet to addresses on Second Avenue and eastward -- or at least that's what developers and real estate brokers are betting. Among them are the builders at 91st and First, who point to the subway's expected opening in 2014 and boldly declare that their tower, christened the Azure, stands at ''the heart of the Upper East Side.'' 
 ''That's really been the aversion to that area, that it was so far from transportation,'' said Chris Poore, a real estate agent with the Corcoran Group who uses the subway as a favorite talking point when he shows apartment hunters the Cielo, another high-rise of million-dollar condos, at 83rd Street and York Avenue. ''People now see the value of moving further east, and what a good investment it is.''
 But for many longtime residents and business owners, the neighborhood's reputation as a bit of a backwater has been one of its attractions: harder to get to, but cheaper and more intimate. Their attitudes veer between the optimistic and the elegiac: They are excited about the subway, but apprehensive about what the neighborhood could lose.
 The subway is not the reason that high rents and high-rises have encroached; that has been going on since the 1980s. But some residents suspect the train line's arrival could be the final step in the transformation of Yorkville and the rest of the eastern Upper East Side from a relatively modest enclave of mom-and-pop stores and restaurants to just another grid of luxury towers and national retailers. 
 Today, four- and five-story tenements, many rent-regulated, line avenues that show vestiges of Eastern European and German immigration. Many corner lots have sprouted glass towers. But along Second Avenue, old-fashioned businesses like the Heidelberg restaurant, a family-owned hardware store and sellers of Hungarian sausages and pastries jostle with shinier spots like Justin Timberlake's new barbecue joint. 
 Next year, some local businesses and lower-income tenants will be forced to move to make way for new subway stations. They fear they will have to leave the neighborhood for good. Construction, which could take years, will strain many more businesses, including sidewalk cafes and restaurants that have given Second Avenue its vibrant streetscape and made it the heart of affordable night life on the Upper East Side.
 ''There's going to be more banks and more chain stores and more high-rises with $2 million condos. There's no more neighborhood,'' said Carol Crnobori, who has run Mustang, a Southwestern-style restaurant on 85th and Second, for 14 years. Like many restaurants along the avenue, it is to lose the rights to its sidewalk tables and glassed-in cafe during construction, a blow Ms. Crnobori said could be fatal. 
 But her bartender, Megan Johnston, 32, confessed that she was looking forward to the new subway to ease the sardine-can crowding on the No. 6 train.
 ''We need it,'' said Ms. Johnston, who lives in the neighborhood. But she added, ''If the rents get any higher, I'm going to have to do the Astoria thing.'' 
 Sally Ardrey, 69, is one of the tenants the Metropolitan Transportation Authority must relocate because of the subway project. Even though she will be forced to move from her rent-stabilized one-bedroom apartment at 72nd and Second, she supports the subway. But she worries it will kill what little economic diversity remains. When she arrived in 1986, she said, for fancier Upper East Siders west of Third Avenue, ''First Avenue might as well have been on Cape Cod.''
 But between 1980 and 2000, in the area from Second Avenue to the East River and 70th to 96th Street, the population grew 12.9 percent, compared with 7.6 percent for all of Manhattan, according to an analysis of census data by demographers at Queens College. Rents grew by 41.8 percent, compared with 31.1 percent boroughwide.
 Many residents say they will believe in the subway when they see it. City officials first proposed it in the 1920s, to replace the elevated trains on Second and Third Avenues. Twice voters approved it. But funds earmarked in 1951 went instead to improve existing lines; a second bond issue in 1967 led to construction that halted during the city's financial crisis in the 1970s.
 The idea that a subway could spiff up the neighborhood has come and gone. In 1930, a real estate auctioneer told The New York Times that the Second Avenue line would make Yorkville ''high-class apartment house territory'' and gentrify the blocks in the East 90s that were then lined with breweries. But in the 1950s, letter-writers complained that the chaos of construction would bring down the neighborhood.
 Last year, voters approved a bond issue partly financing the first leg of the line, and the federal government has also committed money. Projected to cost $4 billion and open in 2014, it will run down Second Avenue from 96th Street, stopping at 86th and 72nd Streets and then at 63rd Street and Lexington Avenue, where it will join existing tracks. Someday, the line is to stretch down Second Avenue to the financial district. Transit officials will not venture to guess when.
 Building crews will mostly tunnel underground, out of view. But to build the stations, they will dig up parts of the street.
 That means restaurants along swaths of Second Avenue, including from 82nd to 88th Streets and 70th to 74th Streets, will temporarily lose permits for cafes that jut onto the sidewalk. Authority officials do not yet know how long that will last.
 The Heidelberg, where German sausages have been served since 1908 and waitresses still wear dirndl skirts, must pull in its outdoor tables, but hopes for the best. The subway will improve business, says the manager, Regina Bryant, if restaurants survive its construction. 
 At Dorrian's Red Hand, a red-tableclothed neighborhood fixture, a glassed-in balcony may have to go for a time. Similar inconveniences loom for at least a dozen other neighborhood standbys, like A la Turka on 74th and Second, which faces losing a portion of its seating during the subway construction. ''That's it; end of life,'' the manager, Suleyman Secer, said.
 For several businesses and residents, the consequences are worse. The authority is using eminent domain to take over and tear down the properties they rent.
 Tony's Di Napoli, a chicken-parmigiana-and-spaghetti Italian family restaurant where former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani courted his current wife, Judith, must move. Its dining room will become a subway entrance. Falk Surgical Supplies, a drugstore that has sold hard-to-find medical products on 72nd and Second for 50 years, will be torn down. Owners of both say they will never find affordable space nearby.
 Four buildings will be demolished, forcing out the tenants of 57 mostly rent-regulated apartments. Federal law requires the authority to find them housing in the neighborhood of a comparable type and price. If there is none, the law requires the authority to pay the difference in rent for their new apartments for up to three and a half years, up to $5,265 total. Transit officials vow to find apartments the tenants can afford indefinitely, even if it means going above the maximum amount, but have not determined how they will do that when one-bedrooms routinely rent for more than $2,000. 
 Regulars at Tony's saw an ominous sign for their own future. 
 ''We've spent every graduation, birthday party and anniversary here,'' said Stewart Cohon, 57, a human-resources consultant who lives nearby and was eating with neighbors who fretted that their favorite hangouts would disappear. ''This hurts not just Tony's but everybody in the neighborhood,'' Mr. Cohon said.
 In the short term, the subway could hurt real estate owners, too, since dust and inconvenience could spook tenants and buyers. But for the long term, said Deborah Gutoff, a senior director at the brokerage firm Eastern Consolidated, ''We're excited.''
 Earlier, the area was not as prosperous as the rest of the East Side, but that is changing, Ms. Gutoff said. She expects the subway to further raise the value of retail and residential properties, like the four buildings on 71st and Second, a row of modest old tenements, that she is offering to investors in an estate sale.
 And the fate of those buildings, with their rent-regulated tenants and shops like the cheap and beloved Afghan Kebab House? Within a decade, Ms. Gutoff said, a buyer could put up an 80,000-square-foot apartment tower, adding to the Upper East Side's population boom.
 That growth, which began long ago, is one reason the area needs a new train line despite the even higher rents it will bring, said State Senator Liz Krueger, who represents the district: ''It's a chicken and egg thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A long-delayed subway may open up what has largely been a modest enclave of restaurants and mom-and-pop stores on the eastern Upper East Side.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B35)
Melissa Kaye Ortiz at Falk Surgical Supplies with Perry Berg, an owner of Falk, holding Ms. Ortiz's dog, Lucy. The store, on 72nd and Second for 50 years, will be torn down to make way for the subway. At left, work was being done for the line in 1977.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(PHOTOGRAPH BY DON HOGAN CHARLES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B36) MAP: Changing Second Avenue: Some residents and businesses will be forced to move to make room for the Second Avenue subway line when their properties are taken over by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority using eminent domain. Others may lose parts of their buildings. And more businesses will be affected during the construction.(Sources: Metropolitan Transportation Authority
 map data from Lotinfo by Space Track)(pg. B36) Map shows various grid points for: 96th Street station, 86th Street station, and 72nd Street station. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); HARDWARE STORES (74%); RESTAURANTS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (65%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



107 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SCHOOLS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: More Districts Closing on Muslim Holidays

BYLINE: By DEBRA NUSSBAUM

 BODY:
IN Paterson, there has been no school on Rosh Hashana or Yom Kippur for years. But now the schools are also closed on the Muslim holidays of Eid al-Fitr (the end of the month of fasting for Ramadan) and Eid al-Adha (the end of the pilgrimage to Mecca). 
 Prospect Park schools generally close for the first and last days of Ramadan and Eid al-Adha. 
 Atlantic City added two Muslim holidays to its school calendar in the last three years. 
 And this year, for the first time, Cliffside Park will close Thursday to observe the end of Ramadan. 
 With significant demographic changes taking place in many communities, school officials struggle annually with the school calendar. The movement toward Muslim holidays is small but growing in New Jersey.
 The shift to Muslim holidays is not widespread in the region, despite sizable Muslim populations in some cities. The school board associations on Long Island and in Connecticut and Westchester said they knew of no districts that closed for Muslim holidays.
 But New Jersey, with a Muslim population estimated at 400,000, has been different. Districts like Paterson probably have thousands of Muslim students, said Hani Y. Awadallah, a chemistry professor at Montclair State University and president of the 10-year-old Arab American Civic Organization. 
 ''This is really a trend that is taking off,'' Dr. Awadallah said of the school holidays. ''I think you will see this across the country.'' 
 Twenty years ago it was not unusual for many districts to have only the Christian holidays on their calendars, and districts with high Jewish populations also took off on Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur, said Barry Ersek, interim executive director of the New Jersey Association of School Administrators. 
 While the state and education associations do not track holiday calendars in schools, educators agree that many more districts have added Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur in the last 10 years and about a dozen districts have added Muslim holidays.
 ''It's based on community needs, and every community is different,'' Dr. Ersek said. ''You have to be sensitive to your community and their needs. The calendar can be controversial.''
 Each year the State Department of Education releases a new list of religious holidays for which students may have an excused absence if they are using the day for religious purposes. The list this year has more than 75 holidays, including All Saints Day, the Hindu Ganesha Chaturthi, Kwanzaa, Passover, Buddah's birthday and Armenian Memorial Day.
 ''The list keeps growing,'' said Mike Yaple, spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association. ''Several years ago it was four dozen; now it's over 70.''
 In Passaic, days off to observe holidays have included Christmas, Easter, Rosh Hashana, Yom Kippur and Deepavali, a Hindu celebration. Some years, the district has also observed Feast of the Epiphany, or Three Kings Day, in January.
 ''Being a very diverse district, it's a challenge to make our calendar each year,'' said Robert H. Holster, the Passaic superintendent. About 84 percent of the district's 13,000 students in prekindergarten through high school are Hispanic, with the rest being Indian or African-American, he said. And there is a growing community of Orthodox Jewish families using the preschool program, Dr. Holster said. 
 The student population is not the only consideration when setting days off. ''It's no longer just the students,'' Dr. Holster said. ''It's the staffing. If I had school on a Jewish holiday, I'd need at least 100 substitutes.''
 PATERSON and Trenton were among the first districts to observe Muslim holidays. Trenton began taking off a day for the end of Ramadan in the early 1990s. Paterson put Eid al-Fitr on its calendar in the mid-1990s. In 1999, a second Muslim holiday was added, said Laura Constable, district spokeswoman. She estimated that 5 percent of the students are of Arabic descent.
 Administrators wrestle with the calendar every year, said Michael E. Glascoe, Paterson's superintendent. ''Our population is so diverse, and we don't want to slight any one group,'' he said. 
 Districts like Cliffside Park that added a Muslim holiday ''have come a long way,'' said Afsheen Shamsi, community relations director for the New Jersey office of the Council on American-Islamic Relations. 
 ''We are hoping that more school districts will take off the Muslim holidays,'' she said. ''America is a country where we bring together people of diverse faiths. New Jersey is a great state and attracts people of diverse backgrounds.''
 Dr. Glascoe, the Paterson superintendent, said that in the past two years he had not had complaints from parents but that some administrators and teachers did not like all the interruptions in instruction that resulted from days off.
 Dr. Awadallah, of the Arab American Civic Organization, said the issue was not about a school celebrating holidays, but about students missing instruction time. Montclair State administrators have asked Dr. Awadallah to inform colleagues each year about the Muslim holidays to make them sensitive to scheduling tests or events that would be hard to make up.
 When a school district votes to take a holiday, it is not an endorsement or a celebration, said Richard Vespucci, spokesman for the State Department of Education. Districts see trends in their populations and take off when the school day will be affected because a number of staff members or students will be gone. 
 ''We are a very diverse state in every sense, including geography, economics, religion,'' he said.
 Four years ago, Prospect Park decided to take off the first and last days of Ramadan, said James F. Barriale, the superintendent. About 25 percent of the 840 students in the district, which is prekindergarten through eighth grade, are Muslim, he said. 
 ''We started to look at the trends and number of students absent,'' he said. ''We were reteaching a lot of the lessons, and then you are basically wasting the day. We received compliments on this. Now the kids aren't missing lessons.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MULTICULTURAL: Left, in the Passaic school district, posters on a bulletin board in the high school reflect various heritages. Below, Superintendent Robert H. Holster, left, with Carl Creech, Passaic High School principal, right, and instructors in a class celebrating diversity. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLAMIC HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (96%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (95%); RAMADAN (93%); EID AL-ADHA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ROSH HASHANAH (90%); YOM KIPPUR (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PASSOVER (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); DIWALI (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); HAJJ (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); ARAB AMERICANS (73%); KWANZAA (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



108 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: In Life of Lies, Iraqis Conceal Work for U.S.

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Kareem Hilmi, Qais Mizher and Johan Spanner contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
For Hamed, a forklift driver at an American military base, life has become a series of disguises. 
 He has been a cabdriver, a man who does not understand English, and most recently, a laundry worker. None of those identities were true, but all were necessary to hide his ties to the United States.
 So when someone he knew handed him a bag of dirty clothes last month, Hamed, a mild-mannered 33-year-old father of two, had no choice but to wash them. 
 ''I said, 'It's my job,' and I took them,'' he said. He spoke on condition that his last name not be used out of fear for his and his family's safety. 
 For the tens of thousands of Iraqis who work for the United States in Iraq, daily life is an elaborate balancing act of small, memorized untruths. Desperate for work of any kind when jobs are extremely hard to come by in Iraq, they do what they must, even though affiliation with the Americans makes them targets. 
 The Iraqis have stories for their scars, stories for nights away from home, stories for what they do outside their neighborhoods all day. Most often the stories are told to neighbors and acquaintances, though sometimes they are told to children as well, to ensure that the truth about a job stays strictly within the family. 
 In the early days, Hamed's truth was not hard to hide. He drove around in a beat-up Toyota and slapped a plastic 'taxi' sign on top of it when he wanted to go to work at the base in the morning. Coming home was trickier. He needed to return to his neighborhood with a customer in the car to avoid suspicion. 
 As his neighborhood fell under the control of Sunni militants, fewer people wanted to go there, and once he spent more than two hours driving around looking for a fare. ''What should I do?'' he said. ''My life is more important than the fuel.''
 The real trouble began last fall. An envelope with two bullets was left outside his front gate. He said it contained a note: ''Spy,'' it read. ''You will be killed.'' A few days before, someone from his neighborhood had seen him leaving work at the base, a friend told him. He and his family left his home immediately. 
 He rented an apartment for his wife and children, and then traveled to Lebanon. There, he applied for refugee status, encouraged by an announcement by American officials that immigration quotas for Iraqis would be raised, but ran out of money after waiting months for his application to be processed. Unable to work in Lebanon legally, and faced with a choice of bringing his wife and children into poverty there, or living apart in Iraq, he decided to return to Iraq, forfeiting his application. 
 Now he lives on the third floor of a cheap motel in a poor neighborhood in Baghdad, away from his wife and children. He sleeps on a thin foam mattress and padlocks his door at night.
 ''My economic situation controls me,'' he said. ''I have nothing now.''
 The squat, dingy, five-story motel is filled with Iraqis leading double or even triple lives. There are many varieties: Police officers who encountered trouble in their neighborhoods, interpreters for the American military, and laborers like Hamed. They pay $80 a month for a room. 
 Almost everyone there is someone else. Hamed shares his small room with his brother, who tells residents that he works in an electrical shop. Another resident, Felah, a 42-year-old former sports coach who works at the same American base as Hamed, says that he is a carpenter. He says he works for a company that makes desks for schools, a story he chose because he had some carpentry experience and could bluff if confronted. 
 Each detail of his life must match. He portrays a scar on his hand, from when he tried to free an American soldier whose leg was trapped under a forklift, as a wound from a wood sander. 
 His cover was threatened when an elderly resident asked him to repair a bed. Felah liked the man and handled the task well, but that only invited another request: Could he make a table? Busy with his job at the base managing an Iraqi work team, and not skilled enough in carpentry, Felah decided against taking the job, but could not tell the man. ''I'm thinking to go buy this from a store, and tell him, 'I made this for you,''' he said. 
 ''Our life, it makes you laugh, but it's a tragedy,'' said Felah, a bowlegged Shiite man with a tired look, who has lost six close relatives, including a brother, to Sunni militants, and whose wife and children have been forbidden to see him by a bitterly sectarian father-in-law. ''We feel that we are not telling the truth, but what can we do?''
 Children can pose a problem. One couple trained a young son never to tell anyone about his father's job at an American base north of Baghdad. A family friend, who knew about the job at the base and knew the son had been coached, tested him this summer, trying to break him down, the boy's mother said. The friend asked the boy repeatedly where his father worked. The boy was distraught, but never revealed his father's occupation, his mother said proudly.
 Lies are required when trust breaks down, and even casual conversations with strangers can be dangerous. Ahmed, a 27-year-old interpreter for the American military, was riding back from work in the Green Zone on his motorcycle when men at a checkpoint in his neighborhood stopped him. They asked about his occupation. He replied that he fixed power generators, a story that was helped by his appearance: he had repaired his motorcycle before setting off, and grease was smeared on his hands and shirt. 
 The crisis, it seemed, was averted. But several days later, a group of men came to his house. 
 ''They ask me, 'If you repair generators, why don't you work in your neighborhood?''' Ahmed said. Then, he said, ''They gave me small generator to fix.''
 Panic set in. Ahmed asked to be excused, saying he needed to go to a hardware store. He slipped away to the house of his friend, who coached him and told him what tools he needed. 
 ''It's very scary, but what can I do?'' he said. ''If I don't do this, they will kill me.''
 But after fiddling with the generator as his friend had instructed, he managed, miraculously, to fix the problem. The men left satisfied. ''I'm feeling happy because it looked I was saying the truth to these people,'' he said. 
 No one has come back since.
 Hamed has told the hotel resident that he must pay for the laundry service from now on, pretending to be a worker whose boss would not allow him to clean loads of clothes free. He has not seen his children in months. They live in the western Sunni outskirts of Baghdad; he lives on the east side of the city, where Shiites dominate. He calls them so they do not forget him. 
 Felah wants to live on the base, where he would be safe, but he said the military did not allow it. Soldiers come and go -- from Kentucky, from Georgia -- but Iraqi workers stay. Some of the Americans are fond of him. One gave him a watch. But no one has helped him emigrate. 
 ''I feel myself as a lost person,'' he said. ''I have no family now. I have no home. Do you feel my difficult situation?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); REFUGEES (69%); IMMIGRATION (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); LEBANON (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



109 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Star of India

BYLINE: By CHARLES TAYLOR. 
Charles Taylor is a columnist for The Star-Ledger of Newark.

 BODY:
KING OF BOLLYWOOD 
 Shah Rukh Khan and the Seductive World of Indian Cinema. 
 By Anupama Chopra.
 Illustrated. 250 pp. Warner Books. $24.99. 
 If Anupama Chopra's ''King of Bollywood'' were only a sprightly biography of the Indian film superstar Shah Rukh Khan; a concise history of the development and sociology of Bollywood film; and a convincing argument for how India's growing economy has changed its films, and how Bollywood stands to play a larger role in the world film market, that would surely be enough.
 The larger significance of the book is that a major American publishing house is bringing out a biography of a major foreign star, largely unknown in the United States. And that is remarkable at a time when newspaper and magazine editors and film distributors are increasingly reluctant to offer readers and viewers what they haven't already heard about. 
 The state of foreign film distribution in America is disastrous right now. Strong work from new and established filmmakers continues to emanate from Europe and from all parts of Asia. But after winning raves at festivals, even the best of these films struggle for an American release. 
 Bollywood cinema, with its love of melodrama and lavish color and outsize emotion, with nearly every genre making space for six or seven songs, may not be the first thing that springs to mind when someone intones the phrase that remains a pedigreed arbiter of cultural sophistication: ''foreign films.'' But in a global economy in which India stands poised to play a bigger part, when the Internet and DVD's are creating film audiences not bound by borders or by the caprices of film distribution, when some American multiplexes are giving over screens to Bollywood releases in order to lure America's growing Indian population and when the stagnation of Hollywood sometimes makes the survival of movies as a popular art form seem an iffy proposition, Americans can't afford to ignore Bollywood much longer.
 At the moment no one represents Bollywood more than Shah Rukh Khan. It's not just that this epitome of Hindi cinema is a Muslim, which makes Khan an unusual star. Part leading man, larger part buoyant goofball, Khan looks something like the offspring of John Stamos and Jerry Lewis. Without the dark undercurrents of the Bollywood superstar who came before him, Amitabh Bachchan, Khan claims, and Chopra agrees, that he represents the confident, successful Indian yuppie, the citizen of the world who is nonetheless recognizably Indian.
 In ''King of Bollywood'' and in her previous book, a superb monograph on the wonderful 1995 Bollywood film ''Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge'' (''The Bravehearted Will Take the Bride''), which has never stopped playing at the 1,000-seat Mumbai theater where it opened 12 years ago, Chopra offers a brilliant reading of how Indian cinema, represented by ''D.D.L.J.'' (as its fans know the movie) and its hero Khan, has confronted the liberalization that came with an expanding economy, rejecting Bollywood's previous view of the West as purgatory while at the same time expressing fear of waning Indian tradition and identity. The brilliance of Chopra's reading of the film is that she argues for its simultaneous traditionalism and progressiveness, a dual but not contradictory approach that can be applied to some of our greatest mainstream movies, from ''The Best Years of Our Lives'' to ''Schindler's List.''
 Chopra covers a lot of ground here. There is Khan's story itself -- his unlikely rise to fame; his wooing of his wife, Gauri, despite her parents' objections; the predictions of failure when a few flops followed many hits; his finding himself under threat from the Indian mafia, which was extorting the country's film industry. Still, I wanted more. Chopra hints that Khan's extraordinary confidence may shade over into arrogance. And she hints of the horrendous pressure Khan finds himself under, referring to himself at one point as ''just an employee of the Shah Rukh Khan myth.'' And I wanted Chopra to examine how Khan, who can be a charming presence or an overbearing one, might be limited as his career proceeds. Most of all, I wanted to know if Chopra believes that a country contemplating greater corporate diversification might find its film industry damaged as ours has been by the triumph of a corporate mentality that possesses none of the old studio moguls' love for movies.
 But I wouldn't have wanted any of this if Chopra weren't good enough to raise the questions in the first place. ''King of Bollywood'' evokes a film industry that, whatever perils it faces, right now does what Hong Kong cinema did in the 1980s and '90s, what Hollywood only intermittently does: approach the job of entertaining an audience without embarassment or apology, treating making movies as more than a future entry on a balance sheet. Hollywood still lives -- if only occasionally in the American movie industry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shah Rukh Khan as the alcoholic lover in ''Devdas.'' (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ''KING OF BOLLYWOOD''
 COURTESY OF BHARAT SHAH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (72%)

TITLE: King Of Bollywood (Book)>; King Of Bollywood (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



110 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: In a Search for Stability, Bonds Offer Choices

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
FOR fixed-income investors, this seems a particularly hard time to decide what to do. One unsettling fact is that the traditionally safest of havens -- United States government securities -- has become quite expensive.
 With the credit markets infected by defaults on mortgages by overstretched homeowners, the Federal Reserve in mid-September sharply cut short-term interest rates in an effort to prevent the virus from spreading further into the economy.
 Investors had already piled into government bonds, pushing up prices and depressing yields, in a late-spring and early-summer flight to quality. 
 Government bonds ''are 'rich' but other things are not,'' said a hopeful Marilyn Cohen, president of Envision Capital Management, a Los Angeles firm specializing in bonds for retail investors. ''When it's difficult like this,'' she added, ''it means there's more opportunity, more upside.'' 
 She's shopping for various fixed-income investments: municipal bonds, whose creditworthiness has not come into question; some newly issued preferred stocks, which trade like bonds and offer 7 percent-plus returns; certain rate-competitive certificates of deposit; and even junk bonds, whose risk can be reduced by investing through a mutual fund or an exchange-traded fund. 
 ''I think people should take a look now at the high-yield market,'' Ms. Cohen said, observing that those who expect another credit shoe to drop had failed to anticipate the first one. Where you stand on bonds these days depends on your expectations of return and your view of the Fed's success in navigating between too weak an economy and too much inflation-inducing liquidity.
 ''If you have a very pessimistic point of view on our ability to stay clear of a recession, then certainly government bonds make sense,'' said David G. Dietze, president and chief investment strategist at Point View Financial Services in Summit, N.J.
 On the other hand, Mr. Dietze added, if you think that the Fed is fully alert to the possibility of a business slump and that ''strong global economies ultimately will trump the subprime nastiness,'' the risk is of revived inflation, the archenemy of bond investors. 
 Indeed, several signs of stepped-up inflation have already appeared, including jumps in the prices of gold, oil, wheat and dairy products as well as a sliding international value of the dollar and rising prices and scattered labor unrest in China. 
 To be sure, the yield curve -- the array of interest rates across the maturity spectrum, from months to decades -- has returned to a predominantly upward slope, meaning that investors are to a larger extent positioned for meaningful payoff for longer-term commitments. 
 One of the most outspoken, and influential, bond market optimists is William H. Gross, chief investment officer at Pimco in Newport Beach, Calif.
 Interest rates are headed still lower, Mr. Gross said just after the Fed's half-point cuts in the federal funds and discount rates last month. But maybe not for very long.
 ''The Fed has finally figured it out,'' he asserted, acknowledging that Pimco had been considerably premature in predicting that the housing turmoil would prove serious enough to prompt Fed action to head off a recession. 
 But Mr. Gross also cautioned that as inflation climbed, the trend would probably reverse, probably as soon as ''a year or two years down the road.''
 As for what the pros call spread products -- any bonds without government backing or implied guarantee -- the amounts by which yields exceed Treasuries have now narrowed a bit, after widening during what may have been the worst of the market turmoil. 
 ''The Fed is going to do what it takes'' to head off recession, said Ken E. Volpert, a senior portfolio manager at the Vanguard Group. This suggests that corporate bonds, their financial health tied to the economy, are fairly appealing, he said, and even high-yield issues, often referred to as junk, ''may be O.K.''
 And unlike Treasury bonds, which are already deemed of highest quality, lesser issues have a chance of benefiting from an upgrade from rating agencies, in some cases making them eligible for institutional buyers.
 ''It may be that such a boost offsets some of the inflation concerns,'' an attraction that government bonds lack, Mr. Dietze said. 
 For retirees and others who need bonds but have grown more leery of inflation, a widely recommended choice is Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS, whose principal value rises with the Consumer Price Index. 
 TIPS, which can be bought directly at a Treasury auction and are available in maturities as distant as 2032, are typically best when placed in an Individual Retirement Account or other tax-advantaged account, partly for ease of bookkeeping. (The inflation adjustments are taxable each year even though they are not paid out until the bonds mature.) Junk bonds -- funds or individual issues -- should also generally be held in tax-qualified plans. 
 While mutual funds may be best for some bond investors -- those with less than, say, $100,000 to put to work -- others should consider buying individual issues, most bond experts say. 
 In funds, you can get diversification and professional management on reasonable terms, but you need to watch out for sales charges that can wipe out the first year's return. Not surprisingly, index funds generally have the lowest annual costs. 
 In the case of municipal bond funds, you should beware of those that buy so-called special-purpose bonds that are not tax-exempt and will subject part of your earnings to the alternative minimum tax.
 ''Funds have a tendency to buy them because they have higher yields that they get to advertise,'' said Harold S. Woolley, a portfolio manager at the Bessemer Trust Company in New York. ''But a lot of people don't know they're in the A.M.T. until the end of the year.''
 The advantages of individual bonds, specialists say, are that you can choose those that come due at certain times, perhaps when college tuition is due, or ''ladder'' them so that if interest rates rise you can reinvest proceeds from maturing issues to capture the higher rates.
 And holders of individual bonds can better determine tax consequences, including the ability to sell losing issues to offset capital gains.
 ''You can be very structured as to your cash flow and you know exactly what you're going to get, which you can never really do with a mutual fund,'' Mr. Dietze said. ''And you do an end run around the middleman fees.''
 The expense ratio of the average bond fund, according to John C. Bogle, the Vanguard Group founder, industry researcher and persistent critic of the fund industry, is ''ferocious,'' around 1 percent -- ''a dead-weight loss to your return.''
 The drawbacks of individual bonds, however, are that you typically need to buy them, at least corporates and municipals, in chunks of $25,000 or more to avoid outsize commissions and cavernous spreads between bid and asked prices. 
 IN the next few months, bargain hunters may want to look at closed-end bond funds, many of which were dumped indiscriminately or from margin calls by market newcomers during near-panic conditions in the mortgage market during August. 
 Hundreds plunged to their deepest discounts in years, some of them to as much as 30 percent, according to Thomas J. Herzfeld, head of a Miami firm bearing his name that specializes in closed-end funds. 
 ''Everything got swept out on the downside,'' especially junk and funds involved with real estate, Mr. Herzfeld said. ''Investors got spooked,'' he added, and ''closed-end funds tend to overreact to bad news.''
 Although most issues rebounded quickly, though seldom to normal levels, more selling to establish tax losses may create opportunities for alert buyers in the final months this year. 
 There is one thing, however, on which there is almost no professional disagreement: While closed-ends can be profitable investments, it is nearly always a bad idea to buy a closed-end on the initial offering because the price is jacked up by underwriting commissions. (Sponsors also benefit from annual fees from investors who can't redeem shares but can sell them only to others.) 
 ''Most closed-end funds have been put together for somebody to collect a big fee,'' Mr. Woolley said. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: CURVE REVERSAL: The yield curve has returned to a predominantly upward slope. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); YIELD CURVE (76%); RECESSION (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



111 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: A White-Knuckle Ride, but Is It Over?

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
A ROLLER COASTER will send you on a wild ride and then deposit you back where you started. The third quarter was like that for investors in equity mutual funds.
 Despite the wrenching ups and downs -- the credit squeeze that sent share prices tumbling, then the Federal Reserve rate cuts that catapulted them higher -- stock funds were little changed by quarter's end. The average general domestic stock fund was up 1.2 percent, according to Morningstar. 
 That may leave investors feeling as if they made a lucky escape -- such a benign result would have seemed a long shot halfway through those volatile three months. But they may come to think that their portfolios should have done better.
 Total returns -- price appreciation plus dividend payments -- of broad stock market averages showed considerably stronger gains for the period. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 2 percent, the Dow Jones industrial average returned 4.2 percent and the Nasdaq composite 7.7 percent. 
 Investors in developed foreign markets did well, too. Many main indexes fell, but a substantially weaker dollar bolstered returns for Americans to gains that were as good or even slightly better than that of the S.& P. The average foreign stock mutual fund gained 5 percent for the quarter. But emerging-market funds did much better, up 11.9 percent.
 China remained on a tear, rising by 40 percent in the quarter, and two other markets popular with Americans, India and Brazil, were up about 20 percent. Funds investing in Asia, excluding Japan, rose 20.7 percent, and Latin America funds were up 11.6 percent.
 The extreme swings in share prices during the quarter left many professional investors struggling to understand their meaning, let alone what is likely to come next.
 ''It has been an amazing market in just three months; I'm not sure what to make of it,'' said Michael L. Avery, the chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed. He found the abrupt about-face in the mood of investors especially befuddling.
 ''When the market was plummeting in late July and early August, fear was the watchword and people did not want to take risks,'' he recalled. ''Everything looked pretty grim, then with six weeks to go, they said, 'Never mind.'''
 The recovery got a jump-start on Aug. 17, when the Fed lowered the discount rate, the interest rate at which it lends to commercial banks.
 ''That was the turn, and we've been straight up from there,'' Mr. Avery said.
 As Stuart A. Schweitzer, a global strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank, sees it, the seeds of the third-quarter gyrations were sown many months before. ''If you think about the world economy coming into this year, it was red-hot, even though the U.S. had cooled,'' he said. ''The world needed a slowdown to avoid overheating and an inflationary end to the upswing.''
 The slowdown came, and it was just strong enough to brake the global economy without choking off growth, although it left credit markets and housing somewhat worse for wear.
 ''We weathered the storm,'' Mr. Schweitzer said. ''We had the best of both worlds -- relief on the inflation front without wrecking the economy. That's why the markets came back. It was quite an achievement.''
 For Michael Breen, senior analyst at Morningstar, the main dichotomy was not between the two halves of the period but ''the pretty decent set of extremes'' of fund types that did well and those that fared poorly, a discrepancy belied by the flat average returns.
 ''There were two groups, with the rich getting richer -- natural resources, emerging markets, mining -- benefiting from growth in global demand,'' he noted. ''The poor performers had more exposure to home builders and financials.''
 The gap between the best- and worst-performing subcategories was gaping. The top group, funds specializing in natural resources, returned 8.3 percent, on average; small-capitalization value funds, with a loss of 5.8 percent, brought up the rear.
 Many stock-fund managers who achieved superior performance had big stakes in overseas economies -- if not necessarily shares of foreign companies.
 ''Almost more important than U.S. versus international stocks is the exposure of our U.S. companies to international markets,'' Brendt Stallings, manager of TCW Growth Equities, said in explaining a significant portion of its 15.4 percent gain for the quarter.
 Foreign exposure was also a key to success for Waddell & Reed, which managed several top-performing general stock funds, including the Waddell & Reed Advisors Vanguard fund, Waddell & Reed Advisors Tax Managed Equity and Ivy Large Cap Growth. ''We have done well because we identified that the growth that's occurring in the world is outside the U.S. and not here,'' Mr. Avery said. ''If you've focused on that, you've done pretty well.''
 Whether that continues will probably be a big theme in coming months. Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup, cautioned that the strategy's effectiveness might weaken. It was based on a belief that international economies would hold up better if a slowdown took hold in the United States, but that reasoning might be flawed, he said.
 ''There tends to be this view that people should buy either international companies or American beneficiaries of international growth, such as commodities or industrials,'' Mr. Levkovich said. ''You've got to keep feeding the machine in India and China.
 ''Whether this will be unaffected by U.S. demand, that's touchy,'' he continued. ''We are still the largest consumers. If we stop consuming, those economies will also slow to some extent.''
 Mr. Avery is more hopeful. Economies around the world, especially in developing countries, are strong enough to continue to thrive, even if American growth slows to an annual rate of 1 to 2 percent, in his view.
 ''If that happens, it's still pretty good for growth outside the U.S.,'' he said. ''The relative unknown is if we get a recession in the U.S., what happens to the rest of the world?''
 Easier to predict is that a recession in the United States would hurt American stocks. 
 ''The market is assuming that things are pretty good, that by the Fed cutting rates, somehow we're going to avoid a recession,'' he said. ''What the market isn't paying as much attention to as it should is that there is this act of faith that if things get bad the Fed will be able to bail it out. It may be misplaced faith.''
 A sinking dollar, which raises prices of imports, and rising commodity prices might force the central bank to be more wary about inflation and less inclined to shore up faltering growth, he said.
 MR. SCHWEITZER, at JPMorgan, expressed similar concerns. He rated the chance of a recession in the coming months at about 40 percent and warned that the Fed might choose to accept subdued growth now if it could avoid a flare-up of inflation down the road. As a result, corporate profits might not pick up as much as investors anticipate.
 ''In all likelihood, the economy is going to encounter another six to nine months of tough sledding, with job growth weakening, consumers cutting back and companies experiencing some profit disappointments and maybe cutting capital spending,'' he predicted. ''I suspect we will have some further rocky times in coming months.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, at an economic symposium at Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming. The market started to recover when the Federal Reserve lowered the discount rate on Aug. 17. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S. WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. 30) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM ROBINSON) (pg. 27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); DIVIDENDS (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: WADDELL & REED INC (52%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (52%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%)

TICKER: WDR (NYSE) (52%); JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



112 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: A Heavy Toll From Disease Fuels Suspicion and Anger

BYLINE: By MICHELE MORGAN BOLTON

DATELINE: MIDDLEBOROUGH, Mass., Oct. 6 

 BODY:
The big news in this struggling southeastern Massachusetts community is a proposed $1 billion casino complex that many hope will bring financial salvation.
 But for a small group of residents, the hope for economic revival is overshadowed by health concerns. They are awaiting a report later this year that could reveal whether the dozens of cases of Lou Gehrig's disease centered around a downtown industrial area were caused by pollution.
 The cases, which both state and federal officials call a disease cluster, are located within a mile of Everett Square -- a densely settled neighborhood adjacent to the town's onetime factory row. It is now home to two Superfund sites. 
 The study, which was financed by the federal Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry and conducted by state health scientists, will be followed by the creation of a statewide registry to track cases of the disease, formally known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the cause of which is not fully understood.
 State Senator Marian Walsh, a Democrat from West Roxbury, said it was understandable that most residents were more interested in the prospect of obtaining a casino, which would be built by the Mashpee Wampanoag Indians and is expected to create as many as 10,000 jobs.
 ''It's human nature that we move toward pleasure and away from pain,'' Ms. Walsh said. ''But here, if we can understand the genesis, the registry will bring in money, information and resources that will help get to a cure.''
 Word about the A.L.S. cluster surprised Scott Ferson, a spokesman for the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe.
 ''We didn't know about it,'' Mr. Ferson said, asserting, however, that the revelation was not an issue in choosing to locate the project in the town. Middleborough residents voted to accept the casino in July.
 In early September, Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, announced a plan to license three casinos, including one here in southeastern Massachusetts.
 Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a neurodegenerative disease that destroys the ability to control movement. Patients lose their ability to move or speak, but their minds remain unaffected. It is nearly always fatal, usually within a few years of diagnosis.
 Some residents, like Victor and Marion Sylvia, married 57 years, have spent years trying to prove that heavy metals and solvents from plating and shoe factories -- and the toxic chemical cocktails of other industries -- are to blame for the illnesses here. 
 Mr. Sylvia, a former town selectman, knew many of the dead and dying. Others seem like friends, though he knows them only on paper. ''Our hearts go out to these poor souls,'' he said. ''There is no cure.''
 Now dependent on a cane, Mr. Sylvia conducts much of his activism from the kitchen table, where 40 years of research fans out in yellowing stacks of maps, newspaper clippings and obituaries. He remembers a pivotal moment in winter 1976 that intensified his suspicions about toxins when he drove around a curve near the factories and found a multicolored mess of melting snow and ice. 
 Offending sites, like the abandoned Middleborough Plating Company and Rockland Industries, a chemical plant, are either already capped or under remediation. 
 But Mr. Sylvia, a farmer who once grew watercress and mint near waterways he insists are tainted, said it was not enough.
 ''People are still getting sick -- that's what bothers me more than anything,'' he said. ''But I'm getting tired. I'm 78 years old. I don't know if they'll ever prove that one company caused a problem.''
 Town Selectman Wayne Perkins said: ''For years, there's been a fear that something was here creating more of an instance of A.L.S. I'm concerned. I've always been concerned. It can't be undone, but it can be cleaned up.''
 Suzanne K. Condon, director of the state's Center for Environmental Health, said an environmental link may emerge from the report. ''About 10 percent of the time we do these types of cluster investigations we tend to see that the environment may have played a role,'' she said.
 High incidences of breast cancer in some affluent communities may not so much be attributed to a cluster, for example, but rather better screening processes for early detection, she said.
 ''But with A.L.S., we don't really have a surveillance system in place,'' Ms. Condon said, because there is still no definitive answer to what causes it.
 Investigations into such cases are often inconclusive, and what appear to be clusters often cannot be proven to be anything other than coincidence.
 Donna Jordan and Mary Ann Singersen were co-founders of the A.L.S. Family Charitable Foundation in Buzzards Bay. Ms. Jordan's brother, Clifford Jordan Jr., fell ill and died in his 30s, after living and working less than a mile from the plating factory. 
 Ten years after his death, her pain remains intense. 
 ''I can't believe they're worried about a casino,'' Ms. Jordan said. ''We're not messing around with something like a cold or a bug here. Here was a dad who rode his bike 20 miles a day. He didn't drink. He didn't smoke. And then he couldn't do anything but wither away.''
 There are other stories, Ms. Jordan said, like the owner of a three-family home in the square who died of A.L.S. ''Then someone else moved in, and they died from A.L.S.''
 ''We've been screaming about this for years,'' Ms. Singersen added. ''But for whatever reason, it keeps getting swept under the rug.''
 Rick Arrowood, president of the state chapter of the national A.L.S. Association, said few officials had any idea there were so many cases in Middleborough before advocates brought the crisis to the state's attention.
 ''What else didn't they know?'' Mr. Arrowood asked. ''Unfortunately, it's all an unknown. We can't urge people to take steps to avoid something because we don't know what that unknown is.''
 Suzanne Dube lost a cousin to A.L.S. in 2000, after he worked much for of his life as an accountant in Everett Square. In August, an uncle who was a mechanic in the same area also died. 
 ''Until the registry is in place, we are just shooting in the dark,'' Ms. Dube said. ''We need it. So history doesn't repeat itself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Victor Sylvia near one of the abandoned factories in Middleborough, Mass. He believes the area is responsible for cases of disease. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); CASINOS (90%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (77%); DISEASE REPORTING (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (75%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (74%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SUPERFUND (71%); FOOTWEAR MFG (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES & DISEASE REGISTRY (56%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



113 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Reaching Out With a Flourish of Indian Art

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
In presenting ''India: Public Places, Private Spaces -- Contemporary Photography and Video Art,'' the Newark Museum set an ambitious task for itself: to dazzle visitors while reaching out to New Jersey's growing South Asian community. More than a quarter of a million South Asians live in New Jersey, an increase of 52 percent since 2000, according to 2006 American Community Survey estimates. 
 ''We felt it was timely and appropriate for the museum to debut this groundbreaking exhibition, given the unprecedented growth and influence of the Indian diaspora,'' said Mary Sue Sweeney Price, director of the museum. 
 What the museum came up with exceeded expectations: 100 works by 28 photographers and video artists, spread over 7,000 square feet. The 15-week run of the show will be augmented by music and dance, a fashion show, lectures, gallery tours and symposiums with Indian writers, artists, academics and filmmakers. Many of the events are being co-sponsored by and presented with other organizations, including Rutgers University and William Paterson University.
 The timing of the show is a ''happy coincidence,'' Ms. Price said, coming as the 60th anniversary of Indian independence is putting a spotlight on the country's economic development and rich cultural heritage. 
 Further augmenting this tasting menu of Indian culture, the Princeton University Art Museum is coincidentally presenting a show of photographs taken in India by Fazal Sheikh. 
 The Newark show is big, and a bit tough to navigate. The museum's entire downstairs has been put to use, which is terrific, but works in a couple of rooms upstairs off the Asian collection galleries are rather lost. 
 There is lot to take in: intimate views of the rag-pickers who collect trash to sell; picturesque landscapes and architectural scenes; portraits of Bollywood stars and adolescent beauty pageant contestants. Some of this work is mundane, some traumatic; some makes for great art. Over all, this is a forceful and affecting show. 
 Photojournalism predominates, or at least a brand of photography that has its roots in photojournalistic traditions. Raghu Rai takes informal pictures of important people and events, providing insight into the social and the political, while Ram Rahman seeks to capture simple occasions and street scenes that charmed him but that also evoke broader aspects of Indian life.
 The extensive use of black and white is one of the things distinguishing South Asian photography from the work of artists in East Asia and elsewhere. Another is scale: In an art world where everything is now huge, much of the work in this exhibition feels intimate.
 While I was visiting the gallery, Mr. Rahman was looking over his work. He speculated that the popularity of black- and-white film was partly because it could be processed and printed at home, while until recently, color film was expensive to develop commercially. Another reason, he suggested, was that many Indian photographers had been photojournalists comfortable with shooting in black and white. 
 It may also have something to do with the subject matter, for a great deal of the imagery is socially and politically engaged. Some works even tackle dramatic national crises. Among these is Navjot Altaf's multiscreen video installation at the entrance to the exhibition dealing with the 2002 religious riots in Gujarat that left more than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, dead. Images and words relating to the violence scroll over the screens, building up a dreamy, fragmentary picture of the event.
 But it is not all documentary art. The exhibition co-curators, Paul Sternberger, an art history professor at Rutgers, and Gayatri Sinha, an independent curator and critic in India, have tried to include examples of other photographic techniques, subjects and styles. Though the variety is perhaps not as broad as it could be, there are thematic groupings of pictures on issues like personal identity, the collision of public and private space and the Indian diaspora. Moving away from street scenes, these works take us to more private places.
 ''Playing Inside: Photography, Video and Personal Identity'' is the most engaging of these sections, with the work of a dozen artists exploring video and photography as tools of expression. 
 Often their works are playful and whimsical. One piece, Vivan Sundaram's theatrical restaging of scenes from his family archive of photographs, is a heartfelt if hilarious act of ancestral homage. Nearby is Ranbir Kaleka's simple, poignant video of a man chasing and capturing an escaped cockerel. Then there is Atul Bhalla's sequence of self-portraits showing him submerging his head into a pond. Coming to the end of this section, I wanted more.
 As the exhibition of photographs by Fazal Sheikh being shown concurrently at the Princeton University Art Museum reminds us, while some aspects of Indian society are changing, others are not changing quickly enough. 
 Mr. Sheikh is presenting two series of recent documentary photos addressing the treatment of women in India. Having grown up in New York and studied photography at Princeton University, he has devoted himself to photographing the poor and dispossessed. 
 One series, the more compelling one, documents the plight of dispossessed widows in the Indian holy city of Vrindavan, while the other examines the challenges confronting young Indian women, especially the poor. The two series together include about 150 pictures, mostly black-and-white photographs of people. Some of the subjects recall traumatic experiences that are described in text panels.
 The plight of the widows of Vrindavan, who migrate there after being cast out or abandoned in a society where Hindu brides marry into their husbands' families, is profoundly affecting; Mr. Sheikh has alternated the women's portraits with street scenes giving a sense of context. Mist fills the air, for the photographs were often taken early in the morning as the women made their way to ashrams to pray. 
 It is difficult to think about people being so callously discarded, yet these pictures are so voyeuristic and intimate that they take your breath away. This is powerful photography. 
 ''India: Public Places, Private Spaces -- Contemporary Photography and Video Art,'' Newark Museum, through Jan. 6. Information: newarkmuseum.org or (973) 596-6550. ''Beloved Daughters: Photographs by Fazal Sheikh,'' Princeton University Art Museum, through Jan. 6. Information: www.princetonartmuseum.org or (609) 258-3788. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ALONE TOGETHER: Atul Bhalla's 2005 photograph ''I Was Not Waving but Drowning Part II,'' left, and Tejal Shah's 2006 digital photograph ''Southern Siren -- Maheshwari,'' above, are featured in ''India: Public Places, Private Spaces -- Contemporary Photography and Video Art.'' (pg. 16)
PORTRAIT: Fazal Sheikh's ''Malikh'' (2007), from the photo project ''Ladli'' or ''Beloved Daughters.'' (pg. 16)
 LABOR STUDY Ravi Agarwal's ''Kite String Making, Surat, Gujarat.'' (pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); FASHION SHOWS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); GUJARAT, INDIA (73%) INDIA (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



114 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; NEW JERSEY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: An Ambient Route To Spice (and Henna)

BYLINE: By DAVID CORCORAN

 BODY:
HEADQUARTERS PLAZA is a 1980s urban-renewal project that probably seemed like a good idea at the time but now feels seriously out of place -- four blank-faced commercial high-rises plunked down on a 19th-century streetscape that badly wants trees and steeples, galleries and coffee shops. Enter one of the echoing marble lobbies and you're no longer in gracious old Morristown; you could be in any anonymous office-and-hotel compound off any exit ramp in America.
 So when the Edison-based Mehtani Restaurant Group conceived a $4 million plan to put two restaurants and a nightclub in a wing of the plaza that once held a Bennigan's, the first problem was: How to make them inviting? The solution, developed by a team led by Shaun Mehtani, the 23-year-old managing partner (and son of the restaurant group's founders), was ingenious. 
 To enter the restaurant complex, whether from the outdoor plaza or from the lobby atop the underground parking garage, you have to pass through one of two tunnel-like corridors. Each is lined with mahogany punctuated by lighted display cases holding exquisite little vases, statues and other Indian artifacts. The effect is transporting: you're no longer in Headquarters Plaza, but in what could be called Mehtaniland. 
 And then when you're escorted from the circular reception area into the restaurant Mehndi (its partners are Ming II, a casual pan-Asian place, and SM23, a nightclub), you're transported yet again. Mehndi is a beautiful space, a two-level grotto divided by a mahogany case containing dozens more artifacts. There are no windows, and the lighting is so dim you may need night-vision goggles to read the menu, but the mood is preternaturally relaxing.
 In such surroundings, the food could easily prove a letdown. It does not. The kitchen, led by Mohammed Ansari, delivers Punjabi and Mughlai cuisine, from the north of India. While the cooking hits few creative heights, it is careful, consistent and even stylish. 
 Snack-food appetizers -- deep-fried pakoras, the triangular wraps called samosas, the crisp papadum wafers topped with vegetables -- all carried a heady blend of spices. Sheekh kebab, or skewered ground lamb, had a potent overlay of garlic and hot pepper.
 Best of all was sundal, which our waitress all but commanded us to order: a steaming crock filled with baked chickpeas infused with ginger and mustard seed and topped with chopped mango and grated coconut.
 A variety of breads were disappointingly alike, and more chewy than ethereal. But the main courses were largely terrific. Two tandoori dishes, lamb chops and subz (assorted vegetables), had the mouth-filling tart-smoky character that comes from long marination in spiced yogurt followed by a visit to an 850-degree clay oven. 
 Casseroles were well executed and potently spiced: baingan bharta, or mashed eggplant with tomatoes, garlic and fragrant cardamom pods; saag gosht, flavorful lamb on a bed of spinach; and jinga masala, perfectly roasted jumbo shrimp in a tomato-and-ginger sauce. Or you might try the fabulous parda biryani, in which bony but tender cubes of goat are baked with rice under a thin pastry crust that acts, in effect, like the lid of a steamer. The technique infuses everything with deep, penetrating spices -- saffron, cinnamon, clove, mint, green chili and cilantro -- and the dish almost roars with flavor.
 The word Mehndi means the application of henna, the dye used in the temporary tattoos that are an art form in Indian and Middle Eastern communities, and the restaurant is as good as its word. On Friday and Saturday nights, a henna artist holds court, painting elaborate designs on the hand or ankle of all comers. It's free, though tips are welcome. The artist is Hina Mehta, and she and her work are a lot like this fine eight-month-old restaurant: skillful, elegant, and very much worth a visit.
 Mehndi
 88 Headquarters Plaza
 3 Speedwell Avenue (Route 202)
 Morristown 
 (973) 871-2323
 www.mehtanirestaurantgroup.com
 VERY GOOD
 THE SPACE A comfortable, dimly lighted, beautifully decorated two-level dining room with 130 seats. The lower level and restrooms are wheelchair-accessible.
 THE CROWD A bit more casual than the ambience, with many families and small children. 
 THE STAFF Welcoming and attentive, though prone to occasional confusion. Delays between courses can be long.
 THE BAR A decent and fairly priced selection of wines (but no Indian beers), and a long list of cocktails supplied by the lounge next door.
 THE BILL Lunch buffet, $13. Dinner entrees, $13 to $29. Credit cards: American Express, MasterCard, Visa.
 WHAT WE LIKE Pakoras, samosas, papadum, sheekh kebab, sundal; tandoori lamb chops, tandoori vegetables, saag gosht, jinga masala, baingan bharta, parda biryani; fig ice cream.
 IF YOU GO Closed Monday. Lunch: Tuesday to Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, noon to 3 p.m. Dinner: Sunday and Tuesday to Thursday, 5:30 to 10 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5:30 to 11 p.m. Reservations recommended. Street parking is limited; underground parking is free with validation by the restaurant.
 Reviewed Oct. 7, 2007 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TRANSPORTING: Mehndi delivers Punjabi and Mughlai cuisine like murgh tikka masala (boneless chicken, onion and tomato-based sauce), upper left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



115 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; T: Design Magazine; Pg. 138

LENGTH: 1879 words

HEADLINE: Astrohome

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
Few architects today have the finesse of Ben van Berkel. Working with his partner, Caroline Bos, the 50-year-old Amsterdam native has become one of a handful of designers whose approach, driven by a fascination with new computer-age technologies, has a touch of the prophetic. Of all of them, he has so far come closest to fulfilling the dream of a truly elastic world, one in which the boundaries between work and play, private and public life have all but melted away.
 But in the Villa NM, the first project his Amsterdam-based firm, UNStudio, has completed in the United States, van Berkel combines this intellectual rigor with something new: a blend of play and eroticism that is a welcome relief from the puritanical tone that has infected the world of contemporary high culture.
 Designed for a Russian client as a weekend house in Sullivan County, N.Y., the Villa NM conjures a tornado of images: Hudson River School paintings, garish Las Vegas casinos, '70s kitsch and Russian fairy tales. Somehow van Berkel manages to fuse these images into a coherent architectural vision, one that allows the mind to drift through different worlds without ever becoming unhinged. The result is confirmation, if any more was needed, that van Berkel is an architect who is now hitting his full creative stride. 
 The client helped. A short, wiry man with penetrating eyes, Leo Tsimmer grew up in the Soviet city of Sverdlovsk (now Yekaterinburg), a grim industrial wasteland at the base of the Ural Mountains. He brings to mind the kind of maverick spirit that once defined the American West: a healthy willingness to take risks coupled with a disdain for the values of the crusty Old World establishment.
 Before the fall of the Soviet Union, Tsimmer moved to Moscow, where he quickly joined a new breed of scrappy capitalists then reshaping Russia. He organized Moscow's first rave and even opened a chain of American-style doughnut shops. Eventually, he made his way to the United States, where he expanded his business empire by exporting commodities like frozen chickens to Russia at a time when the Soviet economy was in free fall and grocery shelves in the Russian capital were often bare.
 ''I'm a hard-core capitalist,'' Tsimmer said, standing in front of his new house in a dark flowered shirt, worn jeans and flip-flops. ''But I still believe in socialism as a utopia. I just don't know anyone who can get us there.''
 Like any upwardly mobile New Yorker, Tsimmer soon began thinking about building a country house for himself; his wife, Angelika Lee; and their two kids. He found a 13-acre plot in a quiet corner of Sullivan County, a two-hour drive northwest of the city, and a few months later he spotted a model of van Berkel's Mobius House while wandering through a show on the design of contemporary houses at the Museum of Modern Art.
 ''I didn't know much about contemporary architecture then, but I loved the house,'' Tsimmer said, remembering the moment. ''I called the architect's office in Amsterdam and asked for a meeting. A month later I handed him a check.''
 For his part, van Berkel still seems slightly shocked describing the brusqueness of the encounter. ''We met at a hotel bar, and we started to play with this idea of a Russian dacha,'' he told me recently over drinks in Amsterdam. ''He gave me a check on the spot. He was an unusual client. He was not afraid to experiment. Super-open-minded.''
 With a little imagination, in fact, you can picture the house in the Russian countryside. To get to it, you drive past miles of rolling hills scattered with the occasional old barn and cheap one-story houses clad in vinyl siding. Eventually, you turn down a bumpy dirt road, winding up to the top of a hill surrounded by pine and birch trees with a view of undulating mountains.
 The Villa NM stands atop this landscape, resting amid a dewy lawn with the coiled energy of a cobra getting ready to strike. Sealed inside a taut skin made of earth-colored spray-on concrete and mirrored glass, its rectangular form twists at midpoint, then lifts up at one end to form a canopy over a small carport. 
 As you circle to the back, the form twists again, this time to trace the slope of a hill. A series of decks step down to a pool, their smooth marble surfaces a sly tribute to the famous floating planes of Mies van der Rohe's Barcelona Pavilion.
 The meaning of these contortions becomes clear only from the inside. An informal entry leads from the carport into the kitchen, whose back wall is made of polycarbonate panels embedded with softly colored L.E.D. lights. From here, the room narrows into a funnel-like passageway that twists violently to connect the two ends of the house: a floor twists around to become a wall; a wall turns into the ceiling. Broad steps cascade down through this space from the living area above.
 This is the house's connective tissue, and its elastic form conjures multiple metaphors: the muscular structure of an alien creature, a piece of toffee, a birth canal. But why mince words? It's simply one of the most gorgeous private staircases in America. As you reach the top and enter the living room, a sweeping view of the mountains opens up through bronze tinted glass. The sequence then switches back, with a second set of stairs leading up to the bedrooms and a decadent marble-clad bathroom.
 What's most striking about the interiors, however, is their mutability. Rooms appear and then disappear from view. Spaces stretch and contract. The graceful flow of movement through the center of the house contrasts with quieter corners at either end.
 To some, this may be a scary statement about our current era, where the boundaries between private and public life have less and less meaning. But it is also an attack against a central tenet of early Modernism: the association -- now seemingly so naive -- of transparency and light with a healthier, morally pure society.
 As van Berkel put it: ''You could never hide yourself in these places -- in Mies's Farnsworth house, for example. That was a mistake of Modernism. People need places to hide from each other, too. You need everything.''
 That suspicion of Modernism's dogmatic streak is underscored by a number of playful touches. A living room fireplace, clad in brass, brings to mind a sophisticated take on the swinging '70s; speakers are set in the pool so that you can listen to disco while frolicking underwater. (Tsimmer claims this last detail was inspired by childhood memories of watching synchronized swimmers perform on Soviet television.)
 Best of all is the play of reflection and transparency in the windows, which are made of the same bronze-tinted glass used in old Las Vegas casinos. Standing in the living room on a bright afternoon, the glass gives the surrounding landscape a glorious bronze glow. But as the sun sets, the glass becomes mirrored. The landscape slowly recedes from view and you see yourself reflected in glimmering bronze. At the same time, you become suddenly aware that people can gaze in from outside, giving the house a voyeuristic frisson.
 Such refinements are a testament to van Berkel's maturity. He began his architecture career in the mid-1980s working for Zaha Hadid, who was then known for her dynamic, formal language, followed by a brief stint in the office of Santiago Calatrava, a designer known for flamboyant feats of engineering. These seemingly contradictory experiences have obviously served him well: his own architectural voice demonstrates both a willingness to explore uncharted conceptual territory and a deep understanding of how things are put together, giving his work a substance that is rare even among his most talented peers.
 His first significant civic project, a bridge completed in 1996 in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, is reminiscent of Calatrava's early work. The contrast between its towering wishbone-shaped pier and the lightness of the roadway creates an exquisite tension. It's the kind of structural daring that makes Calatrava fans gush.
 But while Calatrava has gone on to make increasingly flamboyant, even self-indulgent works, his protege's designs have become more taut and precise. In 1998, van Berkel caught the attention of many in the architecture world with the completion of the 1998 Mobius House, whose faceted concrete and glass interior was organized in a kind of elaborate figure eight. The house, which is located in Het Gooi in the Netherlands, had some of the overwrought detailing typical of a young architectural talent brimming with ideas -- every handrail seems designed to make a major architectural statement. But it was also an expression of a wonderfully nuanced mind.
 Taking his cue from the music of modern composers like Schoenberg and Boulez, van Berkel found that by using a limited palette of three angles -- of 4, 7 and 11 degrees -- he could produce a remarkably complex composition that nonetheless retained an underlying clarity. ''It was a way to create a more disciplined model,'' he said. ''And I think it also gives the project a calmness that you might not notice at first.''
 This compositional rigor was coupled with a social mission: to create a more elastic relationship between private and communal space. The owners' respective work spaces, for example, anchor the two ends of the house, while the living area is located at the point where the various pathways through the house intersect, so that they are constantly drifting back and forth between the two.
 By the time of the completion of the Mercedes-Benz Museum in Stuttgart, Germany, early last year, van Berkel was a more confident talent. Conceived as a finely honed machine, the museum is a bold reworking of the rotunda of Frank Lloyd Wright's Guggenheim Museum. 
 Its complex, interlocking spirals -- a system of ramps that lead down through galleries stocked with sleek cars -- revealed the same preoccupation with complex geometries as his earlier work, but with an astounding level of refinement.
 Unfortunately, van Berkel has had less success in the United States. In 1999 he was included in a competition sponsored by the Canadian Center for Architecture to come up with proposals for the development of a vast site extending west from Madison Square Garden to the Hudson River, but nothing came of it. A year later, he was awarded a commission for the design of a major addition to the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford. The design featured an ingenious system of intertwining ramps that connected several existing 19th-century buildings around a central court. But the museum's board and directorship changed, and it died.
 The Villa NM is a taste of what we've been missing. The seeming ease with which van Berkel handles such a complex formal language makes you eager to see the discoveries that are yet to come.
 In the end, however, the house's most delicious feature may be the way it playfully mocks our cultural pretensions. In a society driven by rampant careerism and painfully averse to risk -- especially the risk of being labeled gauche -- the house is a monument to what can happen when you let go of inhibitions. It proves that the slickness of the computer age does not necessarily have to lead us to a world sanitized of sensual charms.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above: the view from the third-level landing down to the living room. Right: from the living room, a view of the twisting stairs that lead back to the third level and master bathroom, and down to the kitchen and entrance. The ambiguity between wall and floor is evident in this image of the stair connecting the kitchen and the living room. Opposite: the pattern of the shower's marble wall is reflected in the green lacquer of the master bathroom cabinets. Above: in a child's room, the pitched floor follows the curve of the window. Right: the back of the house at dusk, when the tinted glass allows a glimpse inside. The kitchen's polycarbonate wall panels, at left, glow with L.E.D. light. Ben van Berkel and his partner, Caroline Bos, in their offices in Amsterdam. The two architects began working together in 1988 but did not establish UNStudio until 1999. Right: the 1998 Mobius House. Below: a 2006 competition entry for the World Business Center in Busan, South Korea. Above and right: the interlocking spirals and systems of ramps at the Mercedes-Benz Museum in Stuttgart, Germany, completed in 2006, are a bold reworking of Frank Lloyd Wright's Guggenheim Museum. Right: the design for an 18-story Louis Vuitton flagship store in Japan. The leaf-shaped openings echo the form of the floor plans. Left: UNStudio's unbuilt 2000 design for the renovation and expansion of the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIAN RICHTERS
FROM UNSTUDIO (2)
THEA VAN DEN HEUVEL/DAPH
BRIGIDA GONZALES
 FROM UNSTUDIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); POULTRY (63%); RETAIL BAKERIES (61%); FROZEN FOODS (60%); CASINOS (54%); MOUNTAINS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (59%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (85%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



116 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Terri Thompson, Ralph Acerno

 BODY:
Terri Anne Thompson and the Rev. Ralph Paul Acerno were married on Friday at Christian Community Church in River Edge, N.J., where the bridegroom is the pastor. The Rev. Greg Vadala, a nondenominational Christian minister, performed the ceremony. 
 Ms. Thompson, 55, is keeping her name. She is the director of the Knight-Bagehot Fellowship Program in Economics and Business Journalism, which provides tuition for a year of study at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. Until 1992, she worked in the New York bureau of U.S. News & World Report, for which she wrote about business and finance. She graduated from New York University and received a master's degree in journalism from Columbia. She is a daughter of Donna and John Thompson of Kingman, Ariz.
 Mr. Acerno, 60, is a minister of the Reformed Church in America. He graduated from Northeastern Bible College in Essex Fells, N.J., and has a master's degree in divinity from New Brunswick Theological Seminary. He is the son of the late Gertrude and Michael Acerno, who lived in Garfield, N.J. 
 The bride was a widow; the bridegroom's two previous marriages ended in divorce.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES SPATZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); JOURNALISM (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



117 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: From Empty Lots To Bustling Waterfront

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
ON an empty stretch along the South Boston waterfront, hundreds of guests and dignitaries gathered in late September to celebrate the groundbreaking for Fan Pier, a 21-acre, $3 billion mixed-use development. If you squinted just right, you could almost imagine a vibrant neighborhood of parks, residences, hotels, office buildings and shops rising from the barren landscape there. 
 For those who have long envisioned a revitalized Seaport District, as the area is known, the groundbreaking marked the end of a decades-long saga filled with almost as many dashed hopes as there have been in Fenway Park across town. 
 The area -- roughly 1,000 acres of waterfront property across the Fort Point Channel from Boston's financial district -- served as rail yards for Boston's working port until about 1955, when heavy industry there dried up. After that, the land was used mostly for parking lots, which have passed through the hands of prominent businessmen including Nicholas Pritzker, the chairman of the Hyatt Development Corporation; Frank H. McCourt Jr., the owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers; and Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation. 
 As market conditions waxed and waned, this prime waterfront real estate sat untouched, earning it the reputation as the most scenic parking lot in Boston. ''A lot of folks had hopes for 25 years,'' said Thomas M. Menino, the mayor of Boston. With the start of construction of Fan Pier, he said, ''that dream has become a reality.'' 
 A confluence of factors has created a more favorable environment for developers. Access to the area has improved with the new Ted Williams Tunnel connecting the Seaport District to Logan International Airport across the harbor, the extension of the Massachusetts Turnpike and the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority's new electric bus line, the Silver Line. 
 Other high-profile developments have brought visitors and a sense of excitement to the area. The Institute of Contemporary Art, the cantilevered glass museum designed by Diller Scofidio & Renfro, opened last December on the Fan Pier property, and the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center has been drawing thousands of conventioneers since it opened in 2004. 
 Fan Pier, a curved stretch of land and piers between the Moakley United States Courthouse and the Institute of Contemporary Art, will eventually include three office buildings, a luxury hotel, more than a million square feet of residential buildings, more than 300,000 square feet of street-level retail and restaurant space, a six-acre deep-water marina and four and a half acres of public park. 
 It is just one of several development projects planned or under consideration in the Seaport District. Since 2000, more than 8 million square feet has been developed in the area, and an additional 20 million is under construction, approved or proposed, according to the Boston Redevelopment Authority, the city's planning and economic development agency. 
 The agency is reviewing plans submitted in June by Gale International, a real estate and investment company based in New York, for Seaport Square, on a 24-acre parcel behind Fan Pier. Gale, along with Morgan Stanley, bought the land from the News Corporation in September 2006 for $204 million. (The News Corporation had acquired the property in the sale of the Dodgers to Mr. McCourt, after he failed in a bid to buy the Boston Red Sox and build a new stadium for it on the property.) Gale's plan envisions 6.5 million square feet of office, residential, retail and park space, including a school, cultural center and shops. If approved by the redevelopment authority, construction on the $3 billion project could start in the fall of 2008. 
 Next to Seaport Square is Waterside Place, an 11-acre parcel across from the convention center. The Drew Company of Boston has permission to develop a mixed-use retail, hotel and condominium complex totaling more than 1.2 million square feet. 
 New England Development, a real estate development and management company, eventually plans to build a one-million-square-foot mixed-use project on 9.5 acres along Pier 4. The site abuts Fan Pier and is owned by the Athanas family, which has had a restaurant there, Anthony's Pier 4, for four decades. 
 Farther down the waterfront is Harborside Pier, a new development by Cresset Development that will feature retail and outdoor dining facilities, including a new Jimmy's Harborside restaurant. The nearby Renaissance Boston Waterfront Hotel, a $145 million project developed by Marriott International, is slated to open in January 2008.
 The neighborhood rising in the Seaport District is expected to be one of the nation's ''greenest.'' Earlier this year, the city of Boston amended its zoning code to require all private development projects of more than 50,000 square feet to be ''LEED certifiable,'' meaning they meet minimum standards of the United States Green Building Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design rating system. Many developers plan to go beyond that. 
 Fan Pier illustrates the Seaport District's potential. ''It's a unique opportunity,'' said Joseph F. Fallon, president and chief executive of the Fallon Company, which is developing the site. ''We're creating a new neighborhood.'' The plans call for extensive use of glass in the buildings to maximize views of the harbor and to better harmonize with structures like the Institute of Contemporary Art and the convention center. 
 The Fallon Company -- along with its financial partners, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance and Cornerstone Real Estate Advisors -- bought the land from the Pritzker family in 2005, for $115 million. (The Pritzkers, based in Chicago, had been partners with the original owner, Anthony Athanas, who first proposed developing the waterfront area in the 1980s. The Pritzkers won control in the 1990s after a bitter legal battle with the Athanas family.) 
 FAN PIER is based on a plan developed by the Pritzker family, which, after an arduous process, won approval in 2000 from the city and community groups that had lobbied for more parkland. 
 ''It was a very good compromise,'' said Vivien Li, the executive director of the Boston Harbor Association, a waterfront advocacy group. The resulting development, she said, will be ''a gem on the waterfront.'' 
 The first building to rise will be One Fan Pier Boulevard, an 18-story office building designed by Elkus/Manfredi Architects of Boston that is being built on speculation. Mr. Fallon believes that the combination of location and eventual LEED certification will be attractive to tenants -- especially given that 80 percent of the city's office buildings are more than 25 years old, he said. ''In this location, there is not as much risk as you would think,'' he said. ''We've had a lot of interest.'' One Fan Pier is expected to open by early 2010.
 Mr. Fallon, an avid sailor and boater, clearly relishes the idea of a world-class marina in Boston that can accommodate anything from small boats to yachts of more than 200 feet.. ''They'll be lined up just like in Monte Carlo,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vacant waterfront property in Boston, left, is being converted to a mixed-use development that will include office buildings, hotels and residences. Below is a photographic rendering of the planned Fan Pier project (in the foreground left, with the Boston skyline in the background). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE, ROBERT SPENCER
 BELOW, NEOSCAPE/THE FALLON COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); BASEBALL (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%); AIRPORTS (63%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (63%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (82%); DILLER SCOFIDIO & RENFRO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



118 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 0; Automobiles; DESIGN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Cars With Street Cred. (Students Dreamed Them Up.)

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
FOR Alex Rodriguez, a high school student from the Bronx, the nickname was inevitable: A-Rod. But a better one would have been Hot Rod: this Alex Rodriguez, 17, recently worked with a Nissan designer to create a car. 
 Mr. Rodriguez, who attends New Design High School on the Lower East Side, took part in a program organized by Nissan with a nonprofit organization, Sweat Equity Enterprises, or SEE, to bring professional auto designers together with teenagers in lagging urban neighborhoods. He worked with other students from the Bronx and Brooklyn: Paul Ayala, Shakirra Torain and Chris Jones known as Stewie. 
 Mr. Jones, 16, the leader of the team and a student at Bronx High School for the Visual Arts, came by his nickname a different way. ''I have a head a lot bigger than my body,'' he said, explaining why he is universally called Stewie, after the irrepressible infant on ''Family Guy,'' the cartoon television show. 
 In the SEE program, 18 students were organized into six competitive teams to create car concepts. From February to May, they met every two weeks in New York with Bryan Thompson, who is based at Nissan Design America, the company's studio in the La Jolla area of San Diego. 
 The project brief was to design a first car priced under $9,000 that would appeal to urban youth. ''So they were basically designing for themselves,'' Mr. Thompson said. 
 The teenagers learned about drawing cars and producing professional digital models, and also researching markets and trends. Mr. Thompson had his charges assemble image boards of the sort that real designers commonly use to define their target audience and inspire their designs.
 In his minicourse, Mr. Thompson passed along designer guidelines like the three-wheel rule: for a car's proportions to look right, the space between the front and rear wheels should be roughly three wheel widths.The entries were judged by a jury of Nissan designers in California, headed by Bruce Campbell, chief of the La Jolla studio and designer of the Bevel concept car unveiled last January.
 The original plan was for only the winning concept to be rendered as a model. But Mr. Thompson surprised the group with news that their concepts had all been so well received at Nissan Design America that each would be mocked up as an animated digital model. ''Shon Jones, our modeler, loved one of the concepts, the Goblin, so much he was going to make it anyway,'' Mr. Thompson said. 
 But the winning concept produced by the team including Mr. Rodriguez, called the Pure, was also fabricated as a three-dimensional three-foot professional-grade model. In a few weeks it will be shown at the big SEMA aftermarket-equipment show in Las Vegas. Mr. Thompson said the Pure was largely Mr. Jones's inspiration. ''Stewie wanted it to be the essence of what a car should be, a three-box car that was the most basic car possible. He called it the Cube because the cube is the most basic of shapes. 
 Mr. Jones even had the marketing pitch: ''We wanted to make the Pure as iconic as the original Mini Cooper, as legendary as the Nissan Skyline and as economical and fun as the Datsun 510,'' he said. 
 Mr. Thompson had long wanted to do a project with students, teaching and above all encouraging them, because he said that he had found only discouragement as a student. He said that on his first day as an undergraduate at the University of Arizona he was urged to abandon his ambition to design cars in favor of something safer. Instead, he transferred the next day to Arizona State, where he studied before graduating from the noted automobile design program at the Center for Creative Studies in Detroit. 
 Mr. Thompson had worked with the fashion entrepreneur Marc Ecko on Ecko-customized versions of two Nissans displayed at auto shows last year. He learned about SEE, which Mr. Ecko helped to create, along with Nell Jordan, a design teacher, three years ago. Ms. Jordan said other companies SEE had worked with include Skechers, the shoe company; Timex; and Radio Shack. 
 Ms. Jordan said: ''SEE uses design to engage students in school. The students get credit for programs during school and they are paid for those after school. They get a stipend, like an internship.'' In addition to companies, foundations including the Nathan Cummings Foundation support SEE. 
 ''These are underserved kids,'' Ms. Jordan said. ''Many come from backgrounds of abuse. Few are in two-parent families. Some are homeless.'' In the program, she said, ''They work hard and it is competitive. It's like 'The Apprentice' meets 'Willy Wonka.' ''
 From working with SEE, the companies, in turn, get market research and a sense of youth trends. For Nissan, the lure was to provide another answer to the question that car companies obsess over: What do young people want? 
 For Nissan, there was learning, too. ''It was about testing our preconceptions,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''I thought I might get six identical 'Fast and Furious' cars.'' 
 Instead, he was impressed by the novelty and cleverness of the concepts. One of these, the Graffiti, was designed, when parked, to serve as a canvas for spray painting and graffiti artistry. That car was the work of three students from the Met High School in Providence, R.I. Mr. Thompson said the approach of the designers -- Christina Rodrigues, Randy Galloway and Jonathan Reyes -- was, ''Hey, just put it out there and let it get beaten up.'' The car would take on the look of its city environment. 
 Not all of the student designers were car buffs. ''I want to design all kinds of different things,'' said Ms. Torain, who worked on the Pure team. ''Cars are just one of them.'' 
 Stewie Jones is perhaps the most fervid of the student designers. He said he devoted his time to automotive magazines, films and video games like Gran Turismo. 
 What cars does he like? ''All Aston Martins,'' he said. ''All Mercedeses.'' 
 ''I went to the New York auto show when I was in second grade,'' he said. ''Since then, you could say I eat, drink and sleep cars.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Design page last Sunday about car designs by high school students misstated the surname of the co-founder and executive director of Sweat Equity Enterprises, which brought together professional auto designers and teenagers in lagging neighborhoods. She is Nell Daniel, not Jordan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: READY TO ROLL: Student designers with the winning concept, the Pure, from left: Paul Ayala and Stewie Jones of Team Pure
Bryan Thompson, a Nissan designer
Justin Cortez and Danielle Porter of Team Beauty
Shakirra Torain of Team Pure
 and Anthony Villavicencio of Team Egg. Mr. Thompson said of the Pure, ''Traditional styling combined with modern proportions and great stance make this a new classic.'' BEAUTY: ''Combines sculptural forms suggested by strong, iconic and beautiful women with faceted details inspired by gemstones.'' EGG: ''Designed to cradle and protect its occupants.'' GOBLIN: ''This three-wheel truck is designed for city deliveries. The rear wheels spread out when the truck is loaded to make it more stable.'' GRAFFITI: ''Use it and abuse it. This tough little box looks better the more it gets graffiti'd. It becomes one with its environment.'' HABITAT: ''A living room on wheels with a tough stance. I love the kaleidoscope glass in the roof and little windows in the doors.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); CONCEPT CARS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); VISUAL ARTS (72%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (69%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



119 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CHINA CALLING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Look Who's Mr. Fixit for a Fraught Age

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
 GEORGE W. BUSH, embattled at home, tied down in Iraq and watching the clock run out on his presidency, has found a diplomatic crutch in an unlikely place: China.
 Last week's agreement by North Korea to disable its nuclear facilities -- announced in Beijing, tellingly -- showed just how much Mr. Bush's foreign policy has come to rely, for better or worse, on the help of the Chinese. They might just be the administration's best hope for peacefully resolving the next big crisis on the horizon, Iran's refusal to give up the right to enrich uranium. Or so some in the administration are hoping. 
 Mr. Bush, who spent most of his presidency with a swaggering, go-it-alone style, has increasingly turned to China on problem after problem: from North Korea to Darfur to the repression of pro-democracy demonstrators in Myanmar.
 ''China has become the first stop for any American diplomacy,'' said Christopher R. Hill, the American negotiator in the North Korea talks. 
 Could China bring Iran around in a similar way? The two confrontations are different in myriad ways, but there are some signs that the answers could be yes. 
 White House officials, for example, note that China, which had remained in the background at the United Nations when the United States pressed for more pressure on Iran, has now signed on to two rounds of (mild) sanctions. They say it could support a (tougher) third round if reports expected this fall suggest that Iran is breaking its commitments not to pursue nuclear weapons.
 Experts also say China needs Iranian gas and oil for its economic growth -- and while this has made it skittish about imposing tough sanctions, it also makes China eager to avert a war in the Persian Gulf that would disrupt energy supplies.
 Still, it would be wishful thinking to call China an ally or even a partner, given its historical and political divisions with the United States. China has proved unwilling to go along with much of what the Bush administration has asked of it, especially when it comes to punishing authoritarian regimes. On that score, China's one-party rulers have always been cautious, calling such measures interference in the internal affairs of others.
 Given that history, there are reasons to think that Chinese cooperation on Iran could have its limits. The Korean Peninsula is on China's border, as is Myanmar, and that alone could explain China's interest in reducing tensions there. For the United States, fear of Iran's nuclear capability is linked to fear of Iran's ties to groups like Hezbollah and Hamas, and to its growing influence in Iraq; those are worries whose urgency the Chinese do not seem to share.
 And experts who take a skeptical view of the deal with North Korea point out that for all the help China has given, this agreement is just another step on a long road toward the ultimate American goal, which is stripping that government of the nuclear bombs it has already built. Meanwhile, Americans have had three decades of trying to squeeze Iran economically, while China is counting on retaining Iran as an important economic partner. 
 ''China can be constructive when its interests align with the United States,'' Clifford Kupchan of the Eurasia Group, a consultancy in Washington, said. ''In Iran, it seems to have a different agenda.'' 
 Nevertheless, Steven Clemons of the New America Foundation, a bipartisan research organization in Washington, said that while some Americans express frustration at what they see as Chinese unwillingness to press Iran, China has already played an active role in trying to resolve tensions that could lead to another military conflict in the Persian Gulf.
 He credited what he said were quiet Chinese efforts to win the release of four Iranian-Americans jailed by the authorities in Iran this summer. 
 With the North Koreans, China's support proved more crucial than anything else. China, which for decades acted as North Korea's protector, responded to the North Korean leader Kim Jong Il's nuclear test last year by cutting off military aid and joining the Bush administration's efforts to choke off the country's bank accounts abroad. 
 A senior administration official said in an interview that China's diplomatic push began even before the test, after Mr. Bush assured President Hu Jintao that he wanted a peaceful resolution with North Korea during an outwardly disastrous White House visit in April 2006 in which a protester infiltrated their joint news conference.
 Mr. Hu dispatched State Councilor Tang Jiaxuan that week for unannounced talks in North Korea that, after some ups and downs, laid the foundation for last week's deal, the official said. ''What changed was not them,'' the official said of the North Koreans, ''but the Chinese attitude.'' 
 China, by virtue of its permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council, has always been an important diplomatic player. But its importance to the Bush administration has grown for two reasons: it has become more assertive around the globe and the administration has exhausted a lot of its options.
 ''I think we need China almost everywhere in the world because we've disengaged from the rest of the world,'' Mr. Clemons said, criticizing the administration's initial disdain for concerted international diplomacy and citing its preoccupation with Iraq.
 Meanwhile, China has steadily expanded its diplomatic and economic ties far beyond Asia. Mr. Clemons suggested that that has caused a subtle tectonic shift in how nations view it and, conversely, the United States. ''They see China as an ascending power,'' Mr. Clemons added, ''and they don't see us that way any more.''
 Such ties give China influence. And with influence comes leverage. In Sudan, the Chinese long resisted American-led efforts to stop the killing in Darfur but this summer lifted their objections to a United Nations and African Union peacekeeping force -- perhaps in part because a Hollywood human-rights campaign threatened a boycott of the 2008 Olympic Games, to be held in Beijing, if China did not do more.
 Supporters of the democracy movement in Myanmar -- Burma to those supporters -- also hope to use the threat of an Olympic boycott to force China to lean on the military government there.
 Mr. Bush, who accepted an invitation to the games in Beijing next year, did not go so far, but he met in the Oval Office with China's foreign minister, Yang Jeichi, to privately urge China to intervene with the generals. 
 Last week, Myanmar's rulers relented and allowed a United Nations envoy to visit -- a diplomatic accomplishment that the Chinese touted, but hardly a breakthrough given reports of continued arrests. ''If China is claiming credit for this, they have to show results,'' said Jeremy Woodrum of the U.S. Campaign for Burma.
 Still, in the Iran negotiations as elsewhere, the United States seems to be betting that China's interest in global stability will continue to rise, so that it coincides more often than not with American interests.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PROGRESS: The talks on North Korea, held last week in Beijing, ended with progress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY CLARO CORTES)(pg. 16) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIK T. JOHNSON)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); HAMAS (60%); HEZBOLLAH (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (93%); MYANMAR (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



120 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Managing Up, Down and Sideways

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
AH, the heartache of the presidential adviser.
 In 1966, White House aides found themselves precariously perched between apprehension of looming disaster in Vietnam and the need for candor with their boss, President Lyndon Baines Johnson. 
 Disaster seemed a safer choice.
 Defense Secretary Robert McNamara was a logical candidate to speak the truth to his boss. Mr. McNamara told the historian and Kennedy confidant Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. and the economist John Kenneth Galbraith in January over dinner and drinks that he regarded a military solution as impossible, according to Mr. Schlesinger's diaries, which have recently been published as ''Journals: 1952-2000.'' A sensible objective, Mr. McNamara told them, would be ''withdrawal with honor.'' Seven months later, the defense secretary was still publicly urging a widening of the war.
 So dovish eyes turned to Ambassador at Large W. Averell Harriman. Alas, Mr. Schlesinger noted of his friend: ''Everyone has his weaknesses, and Averell's is the desire to be near power.'' 
 As for Hubert H. Humphrey, the diarist writes that the vice president and soon-to-be presidential candidate offered only ''unctuous smiles.'' ''His trouble,'' according to Mr. Schlesinger, who later backed Robert F. Kennedy's presidential bid, ''is that he cannot say something publicly without deeply believing it privately; and when, as now, he has no choice in his public utterances, he whips up a fervency of private belief.''
 To be a White House adviser, as the late Mr. Schlesinger reminds us, is to occupy a peculiarly circumscribed world. You can be a confidant to the most powerful leader in the world, you can fetch his coffee or write brilliant briefs on nuclear disarmament, ride in limousines, snare the corner office and chuckle over martinis with the wife of the French ambassador. But the coin of your realm is your relationship to one man. Displease him and the wilderness beckons.
 ''The rule of thumb is never tell the president what he doesn't want to hear,'' said Richard Reeves, who has written histories of the Kennedy, Nixon and Reagan administrations. ''As David Halberstam made clear, there was one similarity between Mao Zedong and Douglas MacArthur: Neither of their staffs ever told them a thing they didn't want to hear.''
 Perhaps, but some of the best American presidents encouraged robust debate, heated rivalries even, in hopes of threading a path to a tough decision. Lincoln was comfortable with discord. The White House of the 1860s bore little resemblance to the modern institution; Lincoln had two important staffers and a cabinet filled with contentious personalities, several of whom considered themselves superior to the president.
 Charles B. Strozier, a history professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and author of ''Lincoln's Quest for Union: A Psychological Portrait,'' described a virtual war within the cabinet room, as Secretary of State William H. Seward went behind Lincoln's back, and others almost came to blows. ''Lincoln absolutely had control of his cabinet but not in a way that prevented him from hearing dissenting views,'' he said.
 Doris Kearns Goodwin, who wrote ''Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln,'' said cabinet members became so angry with each other they had no time to pursue the president. ''In the end, he could come to them and say, I've made my decision on emancipation, now help me with the timing,'' Ms. Goodwin said. 
 Franklin Delano Roosevelt inspired intense loyalty. But as war loomed in 1941, he invited prominent Republicans into his cabinet. Those who saw Germany as the true enemy and those who argued Japan was no less menacing waged loud battles.
 ''Roosevelt was very forgiving of disagreement,'' said David M. Kennedy, the Stanford University historian and author of ''Freedom From Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945'' ''But once a decision was made, it was incumbent to shut up or get out.''
 In the crucible of the Cuban missile crisis, President John F. Kennedy listened to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who barely blanched at the prospect of a nuclear war. But he sided with those who urged a negotiated step back from the breach.
 Mr. Kennedy's style was witty, and critics note that Mr. Schlesinger tended to render his administration in hagiographic terms. But no one could fail the president's test of loyalty, as Mr. Galbraith makes clear in his book ''Name-Dropping.'' 
 Chester Bowles, a Kennedy adviser, spoke out about his opposition to the Bay of Pigs invasion. Mr. Kennedy crafted an ingenious gallows. Mr. Bowles ''was promoted to non-employment in the White House -- to no function and a general requirement of silence,'' Mr. Galbraith wrote. ''The man who almost certainly would have been the chief critic of the emerging Vietnam disaster was safely contained.''
 The modern presidency is marked by powerful chiefs of staff. Richard Nixon relied on H. R. Haldeman, who with the White House counsel, John D. Ehrlichman, formed the ''The German Mafia.'' Mr. Nixon, too, had his intellectual, Henry Kissinger. Theirs was a productive enough partnership, although each enjoyed slipping the rhetorical shiv into the other in private.
 President Reagan was the ideological helmsman, pointing to the distant shore. But his staff hashed out how to navigate there. ''It deteriorated in Reagan's second term,'' said John J. Pitney Jr., who served as a policy adviser and is now a professor at Claremont McKenna College. ''You ran and leaked to conservative columnist Bob Novak before others ran to him and leaked on you.'' 
 The Bush White House, through Vice President Dick Cheney's office, has exacted a thorough line discipline, even now, despite the tell-all memoirs of former aides. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell may feel he was misled into lobbying for an Iraq invasion but he offered no whisper of public doubt while an adviser. 
 Professor Kennedy recalls watching an interview with Mr. Powell in Colorado this summer. ''Jim Lehrer asked him: 'Why didn't you resign?' Powell couldn't give a useful answer.''
 President Johnson, in particular, intuited such weakness. He could butter a prospective adviser like a turkey. But once under his sway, his abuse was considerable. 
 Mr. Schlesinger, who was not a fan of President Johnson's, recalled what befell a fellow power-seeker. President Johnson, he wrote, ordered Pierre Salinger, a former Kennedy hand, to eat bean soup for the sheer humiliation of it. 
 ''There is nothing more dangerous, so far as I can see, than being accepted by Johnson as one of his own,'' Mr. Schlesinger writes. ''He has been meticulously polite to those in the White House whom he regards as Kennedy Men. But when he starts regarding them as Johnson men, their day is over.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AMBITIONS: ''Journals: 1952-2000,'' the diaries of Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., describes Vice President Hubert Humphrey's ''unctuous smiles.'' President Kennedy silenced Chester Bowles for his outspokenness. Lincoln's cabinet had a no-holds-barred style. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY A. H. RITCHIE/LIBRARY OF CONGRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HISTORY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (73%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



121 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Sarah Greenberger, Matt Engel

 BODY:
Sarah Devins Greenberger, a daughter of Marcia D. Greenberger and Michael Greenberger of Washington, is to be married this afternoon to Matt Engel, a son of Lois Engel and David Engel, also of Washington. Rabbi Fred Reiner is to officiate at the Music Center at Strathmore in North Bethesda, Md.
 The bride, 33, will keep her name. She is a legislative counsel in Washington for Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, a Democrat of Maryland. She graduated from Williams College and received her law degree from the University of Pennsylvania. Ms. Greenberger was a clerk for Judge David S. Tatel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia and served in the Peace Corps in Mount Darwin, Zimbabwe, where she was a librarian and a teacher at a rural secondary school 
 Her mother is the founder and a president of the National Women's Law Center in Washington, a nonprofit organization that promotes laws and policies affecting women and families. Her father is a law professor at the University of Maryland School of Law and the founder and director of the university's Center for Health and Homeland Security, which advises federal, state and local governments on emergency preparedness. 
 The bridegroom, also 33, is a project manager for William C. Smith and Company, a Washington real estate developer that specializes in urban redevelopment. He graduated from Carleton College. 
 His mother retired as a work force development specialist with the Department of Labor; she was involved in programs that train people for occupations where there is a need. She is now a management consultant with TATC Consulting in Bethesda, for which she manages a project for older low-income workers. His father, an independent housing consultant, retired as the director of affordable housing research and technology at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
 The connection between Ms. Greenberger and Ms. Engel began well before they were aware of one another. Their parents, longtime friends, shared a beach house before having children, and when the bride's mother gave birth, the bridegroom's mother visited her in the hospital. 
 Their lives moved along parallel paths throughout childhood, but they were never more than peripheral acquaintances. As she remembered, ''He was a little goofy, awkward, a joker and class clown in middle school.'' 
 He recalled ''a nice, smart girl, albeit a little shy and quiet.'' 
 After they graduated from high school, their paths diverged completely and they rarely thought of each another. 
 Twelve years later, Mr. Engel's mother spotted Ms. Greenberger at an outdoor theater festival in Washington and started chatting. The next day she told her son about the encounter in an e-mail message. But he was in Boston working for a nonprofit housing developer and Ms. Greenberger was in Washington for the summer working for a law firm, so he did not follow up. 
 Six months later, they landed in the same place at the same time: the University of Pennsylvania. She was in law school and he had a two-month fellowship in urban redevelopment. They got together for drinks. 
 ''It was fun to see him, he was funny and we had friends in common, but he revealed that he was seeing someone,'' she said. ''He left in November to move to Washington and I knew I would be moving there the following summer for a clerkship, and I thought we could be friends.'' 
 But when summer came around, the decks were clear and they began dating.
 Fearing their parents might become prematurely excited, they resisted telling them much. 
 ''We slowly unfurled the news to them,'' Mr. Engel said. ''We had to give it to them in small
 doses.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (87%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); FAMILY (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LAWYERS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); THEATER (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (65%); CITIES (65%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (64%); APPEALS COURTS (55%); THEATER & DRAMA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); PEACE CORPS (56%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S LAW CENTER (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%)

PERSON: DAVID S TATEL (79%); BEN CARDIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



122 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2201 words

HEADLINE: For Schools, No Lucky Number

BYLINE: By RON STODGHILL and RON NIXON

 BODY:
Last year, North Carolina's governor, Mike Easley, finally delivered on his promise to start a lottery, making his state the most recent of the 42 states and the District of Columbia to cash in on legalized gambling. 
 If some voters in this Bible Belt state frowned on Mr. Easley's push to bring gambling here, others were persuaded by his argument that North Carolina's students were missing out on as much as $500 million in aid annually as residents crossed the border to buy lottery tickets elsewhere.
 ''Our people are playing the lottery,'' the governor said in an address two years ago that was a prelude to the creation of the North Carolina Education Lottery. ''We just need to decide which schools we should fund, other states' or ours.''
 Pitches like this have become popular among lawmakers who, since states began legalizing lotteries more than 40 years ago, have sold gambling as a savior for cash-starved public schools and other government programs. Lotteries have raised billions of dollars, and of the 42 states that have them, 23 earmark all or some of the money for education. 
 For years, those states have heard complaints that not enough of their lottery revenue is used for education. Now, a New York Times examination of lottery documents, as well as interviews with lottery administrators and analysts, finds that lotteries accounted for less than 1 percent to 5 percent of the total revenue for K-12 education last year in the states that use this money for schools. 
 In reality, most of the money raised by lotteries is used simply to sustain the games themselves, including marketing, prizes and vendor commissions. And as lotteries compete for a small number of core players and try to persuade occasional customers to play more, nearly every state has increased, or is considering increasing, the size of its prizes -- further shrinking the percentage of each dollar going to education and other programs.
 In some states, lottery dollars have merely replaced money for education. Also, states eager for more players are introducing games that emphasize instant gratification and more potentially addictive forms of gambling.
 Of course, the question of how much lotteries contribute to education has been around for years. But the debate is particularly timely now that at least 10 states and the District of Columbia are considering privatizing their lotteries, despite assurances decades ago that state involvement would blunt social problems that might emerge from an unregulated expansion of lotteries. These trends fly in the face of marketing campaigns that often emphasize lotteries' educational benefits, like a South Carolina lottery slogan, ''Big Fun, Bright Futures,'' or an ad campaign in North Carolina featuring a thank-you note passed through schools and signed ''The Students.'' The New York Lottery's Web site includes the tagline, ''Raising billions to educate millions.''
 Promotions like these have taken root. Surveys and interviews indicate that many Americans in states with lotteries linked to education think their schools are largely supported by lottery funds -- so much so that they even mention this when asked to vote for tax increases or bond authorizations to finance their schools.
 A Growing Industry
 Long a mainstay of American life, lotteries began as raffles in the 1700s to finance the Continental Army, bridges and roads, and Columbia University. But modern lotteries are big businesses, run by streamlined enterprises with managers and consultants from Fortune 500 companies.
 State lotteries raised more than $56 billion and returned $17 billion to the state governments last year. They spent more than $460 million last year on advertising, making them one of the nation's largest marketers. The 197,000 retailers that sell lottery products earned $3.3 billion in commissions in 2006.
 Lottery advocates say the games live up to their public mandate. According to the North American Association of State and Provincial Lotteries, $234 billion has gone into state coffers since the first modern lottery was started in New Hampshire in 1964. 
 ''Lotteries bring additional money to states that can be used very effectively to fund special projects without raising taxes,'' said Charles Strutt, executive director of the Multi-State Lottery Association, a nonprofit group. 
 But among the states that earmark lottery money for education, lottery dollars accounted for 1 percent or less of the total K-12 education financing (including all state, federal and local revenue) last year in at least five states, including New Jersey. New York had the highest percentage, 5.3 percent.
 (Five states -- Georgia, Kentucky, New Mexico, South Carolina and Tennessee -- direct lottery dollars primarily to college scholarships. North Carolina and Florida also give some money to scholarships.) 
 At least five states -- California, Missouri, New Jersey, Ohio and Washington -- channel lottery money to higher education as well as elementary and secondary schools. In these states, too, lottery proceeds amount to less than 5 percent of the total education financing. 
 In at least four states -- California, Illinois, Michigan and Texas -- lottery dollars as a percentage of K-12 education money has declined or remained flat over the last decade.
 In California, for example, the lottery in 1985 accounted for almost 5 percent of all K-12 education dollars. Today, it makes up less than 2 percent, or about $1 billion, of the $54 billion the state spends on in K-12 education, according to the California Budget Project, a nonprofit research group in Sacramento.
 The California Department of Education addressed this in its State Fact Book two years ago: ''Although the public still perceives the lottery as making a significant difference in the funds available for education,'' the book read, ''it is a minor source that cannot be expected to provide major improvements in K-12 education.''
 Some state lotteries have fallen short of projections. In North Carolina, where officials expected the lottery to generate $400 million to $500 million a year for education, revenue reached just over $300 million in its first full year of operations. In Oklahoma, officials expected schools to receive $52 million last year from the lottery, but the final tally was $15 million less. 
 Also, the portion of lottery money going to state programs is shrinking. When Missouri passed its lottery in 1985, it required that at least 45 percent of all proceeds go to the state, and the number went as high as 52 percent. Legislators revised the law, and now the state gets about 30 percent of proceeds. 
 The Times review of documents from all 42 states with lotteries and the District of Columbia found that nearly all have increased payouts and lowered the percentage going to programs. And those that have not changed their payout formulas are considering it.
 Lawmakers and lottery officials defend the practices, saying schools and other programs will still benefit from the extra money raised by lotteries.
 ''Too much of the focus is on percentages,'' said Gardner Gurney, acting director of the New York lottery. ''My focus is on dollars. You can't spend percentages.''
 In 2000, New York State kept 38 percent of its lottery revenue for education. That share has dropped to 32 percent, but the dollar amount rose from $1.3 billion in 2000 to $2.2 billion last year. 
 But Jerry McPeak, a Democratic state representative in Oklahoma, said states that have committed to a percentage should not later lower that number. 
 ''I think if you pass a lottery and tell people that a certain proportion of those dollars are going to something like education, then you ought to keep your word,'' Mr. McPeak said. 
 School Budgets in Flux
 In some states, lottery dollars are pooled with other funds, making it impossible to determine how much the lottery benefits schools. That is the case in Michigan, Texas and Illinois. 
 Because legislators in these states decide school budgets well in advance of knowing what lottery revenue will be, lottery money is just another part of the overall budget. If the lottery dollars are below projections, the state makes up the shortfall with money from other sources, or in some cases, simply gives schools less money. If the lottery dollars exceed projections, the state uses some of the money for other programs. 
 ''Legislators merely substitute general revenue funds with lottery dollars so the schools don't really gain any additional funding,'' said O. Homer Erekson, dean of the business school at the University of Missouri in Kansas City, who co-wrote a national study on lottery money and school financing. 
 States including Georgia, Oklahoma and South Carolina have enacted laws that prohibit substituting lottery dollars for money that would have otherwise gone to education. But such laws have not stopped legislators.
 Oklahoma, for example, used lottery money last year for a portion of promised teacher raises that were supposed to come from the general fund. The move provoked an angry response from education officials and some legislators. 
 In Nebraska, from 2002 through the last fiscal year, legislators diverted lottery dollars from the state's K-12 education and other programs into the general fund to make up for a shortfall.
 ''Diverting lottery funds into the general fund was one of many ways to make up for the lost revenues,'' said Bruce Snyder, a supervisor in the accounting office at the Nebraska Department of Administrative Services.
 Lottery officials say they are unfairly blamed for legislators' decisions. ''Our job is to raise money for the things the legislators want,'' said Clint Harris, director of the Minnesota lottery. ''We don't have any control over what happens to the money.''
 But Brett McFadden, a budget analyst with the Association of California School Administrators, said: ''It makes it harder for us to convince people that they still need to support education.'' He added, ''They think the lottery is taking care of education. We have to tell them we're only getting a few sprinkles; we're not even getting the icing on the cake.''
 New Games and Gimmicks
 As player interest has flagged, some lotteries have responded with aggressive marketing and new products that critics say can undermine public trust.
 In an effort to attract younger customers, several states have introduced video lottery terminals, in which players wager against a computer, and Keno, a bingo-like video game. Critics have labeled both kinds of games ''video crack'' because of their addictive nature. Fifteen states offer electronic gambling machines, and several more are considering adding them. 
 This year in Florida, state officials estimated that the state could raise an additional $1 billion from video terminals and $39 million to $241 million from Keno. The report also noted that both games ''are considered to be more addictive than traditional lottery games and could contribute to a problem of pathological gambling.'' 
 While introducing Keno in Florida would require legislative approval because of potential problems associated with gambling, Florida officials view the issue through an economic lens.
 ''We will determine which, of the products legally available to us, fits in fulfilling that mission,'' said Jackie Barreiros, a spokeswoman for the Florida lottery.
 Keith Whyte, executive director of the National Council on Problem Gambling, said many states are also introducing higher-price games, underscoring a Vegas-style rivalry among states for gambling dollars.
 California's contract with its instant ticket vendor, Scientific Games, calls for the introduction of 30 to 45 new games a year. Kansas, Texas and Michigan recently introduced a $50 scratch ticket, the most expensive in the nation.
 States are also trying to bolster the number of ''core'' players, according to interviews with lottery officials in several states. Such players typically represent only 10 percent to 15 percent of all players but account for 80 percent of sales, according to Independent Lottery Research, which does research and marketing for state lotteries.
 In North Carolina, Mr. Easley faces a battle in proving that the lottery will be a winner for voters. After its first full year, revenue was 25 percent less than projected, giving critics ammunition in their case that lottery revenue is an unreliable source of money for schools. 
 The governor declined to be interviewed, but Dan Gerlach, his senior policy adviser for fiscal affairs, said lottery officials had overestimated the market size of rival lotteries in Virginia, South Carolina and Georgia when developing the state's gambling efforts. But Mr. Gerlach said he expected the state to sell millions more tickets in coming months than it did last year. 
 That is because Mr. Easley recently persuaded his legislature to increase lottery prizes. The move will reduce the percentage of lottery dollars going to education. But North Carolina is choosing a tried and true formula: raising payouts increases customer traffic.
 ''People like to win big,'' Mr. Gerlach said. ''Now, the pot is bigger.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KEANE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
State lotteries raised more than $56 billion last year and gave $17 billion to state governments.
Most states have increased their lottery prizes to attract more players.
North Carolina's game had revenue of about $300 million in its first full year, but officials had expected it to generate $400 million to $500 million.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS KEANE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A30) CHARTS: Lotteries Profit, but Do Students?: Lotteries in 42 states and the District of Columbia rake in billions of dollars, but much of the cash from ticket sales gets channeled back into prizes and lottery administration. States earmark the profits for programs like education, but the lottery dollars contribute only a small percentage of the total education funding.(Sources: State lottery finanical reports
National Education Association
State Departments of Education
La Fleur's
North American Association of State and Provincial Lotteries
 New York Times analysis) There are two charts listed. One, a grid map of large U.S. cities for lottery, another, a listing of each state's fiscal year profits for lottery. (pg. A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES (92%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (87%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GAMING (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); TRENDS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); NORTH AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF STATE & PROVINCIAL LOTTERIES (59%)

PERSON: MIKE EASLEY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



123 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: The Boy Behind the Global Theories

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN'S ''Age of Turbulence'' narrates the life of a musical, playful, nerdy number-cruncher who, improbably, rides the wave of globalization to glory during a long reign at the Federal Reserve, and then entraps himself in what he always warned against: fiscal recklessness. 
 Mr. Greenspan's newsmaking accusation that the Bush-Cheney White House and the Republican Congress betrayed their principles cuts close to the bone -- his bone. After all, as Federal Reserve chairman, he voiced public support for deficit-inducing tax cuts (even though doing so did not fall within his job description). And this despite his well-reasoned forebodings about the country's unsupportable entitlement burdens.
 Beyond Mr. Greenspan's personal and professional story, ''The Age of Turbulence'' (Penguin Press, $35) purports to be a parable of capitalism's redemption from 1970s stagflation to triumphal free-market prosperity. What comes across, however, is the cracking of American insularity. 
 ''We are living in a new world -- the new world of a global capitalist economy that is vastly more flexible, resilient, open, self-correcting and fast-changing than it ever was even a quarter-century ago,'' Mr. Greenspan celebrates. Elsewhere in the book, though, he says of high-growth enigmas like post-Soviet Russia: ''Watching markets in the absence of the protection of property rights or a tradition of trust was a wholly new experience for me.'' 
 Among the charms of ''The Age of Turbulence'' is that the personification of the dynamic modern economy, Chairman Greenspan, turns out to be an old-fashioned and fascinating person. 
 He was born in 1926. After his parents divorced early, he was raised an only child by his mother, Rose, who worked as a department store saleswoman and never remarried. His absent father, a middling broker on Wall Street, wrote a book about the New Deal that he dedicated and sent to his bewildered 9-year-old boy. Poignantly, the New Deal synthesis was what the grown Alan Greenspan would reject. 
 ''Not having a dad,'' he writes, ''left a big hole in my life.'' 
 Initially, music helped fill that hole. In 1941, the teenage Mr. Greenspan heard Glenn Miller at the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York City. Later, he shared a tenor sax teacher with Stan Getz and found a place in the Henry Jerome Orchestra, playing such places as the Roosevelt Room in New Orleans.
 ''I got along well with the other musicians,'' he writes. ''I did their income taxes.'' Excused from World War II because of a spot on his lung, Mr. Greenspan landed a job at the Conference Board, originator of the Leading Economic Indicators, where he put to work the boyhood skills he had honed on baseball statistics.
 Blowing the dust off of tomes on railroad freight-car loadings of the robber-baron era, he mastered the industrial economy's minutiae and learned to see the whole from the parts. He also enrolled in the Ph.D. program at Columbia in 1945. From his thesis adviser, Arthur Burns, also a future Fed chairman, and from Jacob Wolfowitz, the proto-econometrician (and father of Paul), he absorbed the sorcerer's power of mathematical modeling and forecasting.
 But then Mr. Greenspan quit graduate school and his steady job, as well as a first marriage, and accepted an invitation from Bill Townsend, a surrogate father figure, to try their luck at establishing a private consulting firm. The team found a profitable niche by puzzling out general economic trends and crystallizing their significance for specific sectors and businesses. The consulting dollars, too, were in the details.
 Serendipity is a much-sounded motif. Mr. Greenspan's first wife, before they separated, introduced him to Ayn Rand, the Russian emigre novelist and thinker whose Manhattan circle of libertarian acolytes wryly called itself ''the collective.'' So serious was the 26-year-old Mr. Greenspan, in dark suit, that Rand called him ''the undertaker.'' The force of her radically pro-competition, hyperrational worldview changed his life and made for a lifelong friendship. 
 Later, after President Lyndon B. Johnson's civil rights legislation, came the Republican ascendancy. That rise enabled Mr. Greenspan to apply his newfound philosophy, along with his inside-out approach to the workings of the economy. (He later went back and finished a Ph.D.) 
 Mr. Greenspan timed the political market, signing on in 1967 to Richard M. Nixon's successful presidential campaign and serving as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers for President Gerald R. Ford, for whom he conveys admiration. And yet, when the Ford administration brought out its infamous WIN buttons (Whip Inflation Now), he thought: ''This is unbelievable stupidity. What am I doing here?''
 Only in 2006, three decades later, and after nearly 20 years as Fed chairman, did he leave service in Washington for good. ''Being at the center of things,'' he says, ''was admittedly fun.'' 
 He was not limited to the typical Fed chairman's Rolodex. In the Ford years, Mr. Greenspan dated Barbara Walters. During the Reagan years, he met Andrea Mitchell of NBC and invited her back to his apartment to read his essay on monopolies. They were married in 1997 in a ceremony with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg presiding.
 So much for the person: ubiquitous voice of American capitalism yet supposedly uncomfortable in the spotlight; serial intimate of almost every president yet engrossed in the substance of his Fed work as much as the power; not hesitant to employ only female vice presidents at his private-sector consulting firm because, he writes, it was more economical (cheaper than men would have been) and thus more rational.
 Another charm of the book is that Mr. Greenspan comprehensibly lays out his two big insights and presents a global theory of his tenure as well as a prognostication. 
 First, he says, he sensed a productivity surge from computers in the 1990s that was not showing up in productivity statistics, and he went with his hunch. Because productivity is what drives growth, the United States economy could be permitted to grow without undue risk of inflation.
 Second, he realized that globalization was doing his job for him. The vast changeover of hundreds of millions of workers, many educated and skilled, from centrally planned economies to competitive market systems that were relinked to the world economy ''reduced world wages, inflation, inflation expectations and interest rates, and accordingly significantly contributed to rising world economic growth.'' 
 Not just central bankers but also global flows held down interest rates and inflation worldwide. Conversely, housing prices rose around the world. (Mr. Greenspan has a point when he says the housing froth was not primarily the Fed's bubble.) 
 WHEN the technology-driven leap in productivity coincided with the global work-force shift, Mr. Greenspan was smart enough to go right along, letting United States employment expand, and embarrassingly accepting thanks on street corners from people giddy over their bulging 401(k) balances. Maestro!
 But, he predicts, the fortunate confluence that graced his Fed chairmanship will end, as the former Communist economies finish donating their people to the world economy. So the monster of inflation will return to haunt our house.
 It sounds plausible. United States productivity growth slows; inflation creeps up. But understanding the decisive role of the outside world for America's monetary policy does not mean Mr. Greenspan understands the outside world, as evidenced by the shallowness of the chapters on Russia, India and China; he appears to know little about the parts that make up those wholes. He got what he wanted, though: a global market economy, but that means that America's economic future is no longer solely in America's hands.
 Mr. Greenspan warns against economic populism as well as global financial regulation, insisting on free trade guided by the invisible hand of the market. He knows that our ''globalized financial behemoth stretches beyond the comprehension of even the most sophisticated market participants.'' 
 But there is nothing to fear, he assures readers, returning to his touchstone: that unfettered markets create crises, but also resilience. Let's hope so. Otherwise, the turbulence he feels in his soul over his part in what he characterizes as the debacle of Republican fiscal stewardship could become a genuine and global age of turbulence. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ENTRAPMENT (77%); TAX LAW (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (75%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); WRITERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (65%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



124 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Why Not Shift the Burden to Big Spenders?

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University, is the author of ''Falling Behind: How Rising Inequality Harms the Middle Class.'' Contact: www.robert-h-frank.com.

 BODY:
IN his memoir, Alan Greenspan joins a growing list of Republicans who now accuse President Bush of fiscal irresponsibility. As even veteran supply-siders now concede, the president's tax cuts have added hundreds of billions of dollars to the national debt. 
 Mr. Greenspan, who supported those cuts in testimony before the Senate Budget Committee in 2001, when he was the Federal Reserve chairman, now says he thought the president would be more disciplined about spending. It was an unreasonable expectation. Federal spending has risen during every modern presidency, even Ronald Reagan's. 
 Mr. Greenspan may have failed to convince critics that he bears no responsibility for the fiscal meltdown that is now under way, but his book has provoked long-overdue debate about what caused the crisis and what might be done about it. As all serious participants in this debate now agree, no strategy can succeed without increasing federal revenue substantially. The leading Republican presidential aspirants, advocating further tax cuts, have elected to skip this debate. Their Democratic counterparts have proposed allowing Mr. Bush's tax cuts for top earners to expire as scheduled. That step alone, however, would not be nearly enough. 
 Given the political risk of proposing painful tax increases in an election year, many fear that the crisis will remain unresolved. Yet a simple remedy is at hand. By replacing federal income taxes with a steeply progressive consumption tax, the United States could erase the federal deficit, stimulate additional savings, pay for valuable public services and reduce overseas borrowing -- all without requiring difficult sacrifices from taxpayers.
 Under such a tax, people would report not only their income but also their annual savings, as many already do under 401(k) plans and other retirement accounts. A family's annual consumption is simply the difference between its income and its annual savings. That amount, minus a standard deduction -- say, $30,000 for a family of four -- would be the family's taxable consumption. Rates would start low, like 10 percent. A family that earned $50,000 and saved $5,000 would thus have taxable consumption of $15,000. It would pay only $1,500 in tax. Under the current system of federal income taxes, this family would pay about $3,000 a year.
 As taxable consumption rises, the tax rate on additional consumption would also rise. With a progressive income tax, marginal tax rates cannot rise beyond a certain threshold without threatening incentives to save and invest. Under a progressive consumption tax, however, higher marginal tax rates actually strengthen those incentives.
 Consider a family that spends $10 million a year and is deciding whether to add a $2 million wing to its mansion. If the top marginal tax rate on consumption were 100 percent, the project would cost $4 million. The additional tax payment would reduce the federal deficit by $2 million. Alternatively, the family could scale back, building only a $1 million addition. Then it would pay $1 million in additional tax and could deposit $2 million in savings. The federal deficit would fall by $1 million, and the additional savings would stimulate investment, promoting growth. Either way, the nation would come out ahead with no real sacrifice required of the wealthy family, because when all build larger houses, the result is merely to redefine what constitutes acceptable housing. With a consumption tax in place, most neighbors would also scale back the new wings on their mansions.
 A progressive consumption tax would also reduce the growing financial pressures confronting middle-class families. Top earners, having received not only the greatest income gains over the last three decades but also substantial tax cuts, have been building larger houses simply because they have more money. Those houses have shifted the frame of reference for people with slightly lower incomes, leading them to build larger as well. The resulting expenditure cascade has affected families at all income levels. 
 The median new house in the United States, for example, now has over 2,300 square feet, over 40 percent more than in 1979, even though real median family earnings have risen little since then. The problem is not that middle-income families are trying to ''keep up with the Gateses.'' Rather, these families feel pressure to spend beyond what they can comfortably afford because more expensive neighborhoods tend to have better schools. A family that spends less than its peers on housing must thus send its children to lower-quality schools. 
 Some people worry that tax incentives for reduced consumption might throw the economy into recession. But total spending, not just consumption, determines output and employment. If a progressive consumption tax were phased in gradually, its main effect would be to shift spending from consumption to investment, causing productivity and incomes to rise faster.
 Should a recession occur, a temporary cut in consumption taxes would provide a much more powerful stimulus than the traditional temporary cut in income taxes can. People would benefit from a temporary consumption tax cut only if they spent more right away. In contrast, consumers who fear that they might lose their jobs in a recession are often reluctant to spend the dollars they are no longer paying as income tax.
 Failure to address the current fiscal crisis is not an attractive option. With baby boomers retiring and most voters now favoring universal health coverage, budget shortfalls will grow sharply. Annual borrowing from abroad, now more than $800 billion, will also increase, causing further declines in the slumping dollar. And the personal savings rate, which has been negative for the last two years, will fall still further, causing future reductions in economic growth.
 THE progressive consumption tax is perhaps the only instrument that can reverse these trends at acceptable political cost. It has been endorsed by a long list of distinguished economists of varying political orientations. It was proposed in the Senate in 1995 by Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat then serving his final term, and Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, who called it the Unlimited Savings Allowance tax. In short, this tax is not a radical idea.
 Although the Bush tax cuts for the nation's wealthiest families threaten American economic prosperity, they have done little for their ostensible beneficiaries. When the wealthy spend millions of dollars on ever-more-elaborate coming-of-age parties for their children, they only raise the bar that defines a special occasion. Even purely in terms of self-interest, they and their families would have fared much better if the money had been spent to repair aging bridges and inspect the cargo containers that enter the nation's ports. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); SALES TAX (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); FAMILY (70%); US 401K PLANS (68%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



125 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Fall From the Top Lands McCain In a Scaled-Back Comfort Zone

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, S.C., Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain is trying to come off as one of those of-the-moment, 21st-century presidential candidates. He did Jon Stewart's show, can use a BlackBerry. It's important to talk to bloggers, too, Mr. McCain says, ''painful as that might be.'' 
 And when a College of Charleston student asks Mr. McCain, a 71-year-old Republican from Arizona, what he personally is doing to reduce greenhouse gases, he offers that he bought one of those eco-trendy cars for his 22-year-old daughter, Meghan.
 ''What's it called, a Purr-ess? Pryuss? Peer-uss?'' 
 ''Prius,'' someone calls out.
 ''Yeah, Py-russ,'' the candidate clarifies.
 ''No, Prius.''
 ''O.K., Prius, Prius,'' Mr. McCain says like a chastened schoolboy. ''I ought to know the name of it; I paid for it.''
 Mr. McCain is still riding around in his campaign bus, christened the Straight Talk Express during his insurgent presidential campaign of 2000. On Thursday morning, Mr. McCain (running on cappuccino) was sprawled within it on a leather chair, giving a shout-out to that leading-edge comedian, Henny Youngman.
 ''I love Henny Youngman,'' Mr. McCain said en route to a Rotary Club. ''Take my wife -- please. I love that.'' Mr. McCain said he saw him perform in Atlantic City once. Mr. Youngman told the joke about how he and his wife both wore braces, and would kiss in the dark and watch the sparks fly.
 ''Isn't that great?'' said Mr. McCain, a one-man Borscht Belt in South Carolina. And yes, Mr. McCain adds in response to a question, Mr. Youngman would perform at his inauguration, if he weren't dead.
 Mr. McCain's campaign is still very much alive, if not quite alive and well. He is, at the very least, still here, which is more than what political wise-guys were predicting a few months ago. The fallen front-runner has endured well-documented staff turmoil, financial crises and large-scale ridicule from the political news media (''Let's have a moment of silence,'' Charlie Cook, editor of The Cook Political Report, told The Arizona Republic in July).
 The McCain campaign had been swollen with overhead and consultants. It seemed stage-managed and even cautious, fundamentally ill-matched to Mr. McCain's maverick sensibility. It also burned through most of the $24 million raised in the first half of 2007, not exactly buttressing Mr. McCain's message of fiscal discipline. 
 Roughly half of Mr. McCain's staff left or was let go. He split with his longtime political soulmate, John Weaver (whom Mr. McCain says he has not spoken to since). He was left alone to parry a blitz of ''Is McCain getting out?'' questions from once-swooning reporters he once jokingly referred to as ''my base.'' 
 And yet, here is Mr. McCain, the happy warrior on a last mission, an odd mix of liberated and subdued. Between jokes, he is steadfast in his support for the present course in Iraq, his voice hushing to a near-whisper during paeans to the United States military. He is also prone to solemn monologues against the evils of torturing prisoners and the atrocities committed by ''those thugs in Burma'' against pro-democracy demonstrators, neither of which are top-of-the-agenda issues for most Republican voters. But they are important to John McCain, never mind the polls and focus groups, which are too expensive anyway.
 ''It's hard to catch lightning in a bottle twice,'' Mr. McCain has said countless times in the last seven years when asked if he'd ever run for president again after 2000. ''And that's true,'' he said aboard his bus on Thursday. But like Henny Youngman kissing his wife, Mr. McCain is seeing sparks. It has been a good few weeks, he said. There has been movement in the polls, a well-received debate performance, energy in his crowds, a spate of ''Resurgent McCain'' stories in the news.
 ''I'm enjoying it more these days,'' he said, compared with his front-runner days. ''For whatever reason, it took me a while to hit my stride.'' 
 It also cost him a lot of money. ''I just have to be who I am,'' he said. ''It seems to me, if you're not going to enjoy it, it can be difficult. So I want to enjoy it.''
 Obviously he has made mistakes, he said, and, sure enough, his bus is rolling through Georgetown County, site of the event in April where Mr. McCain caused a small uproar by singing ''Bomb bomb bomb, bomb bomb Iran'' to the tune of the Beach Boys' ''Barbara Ann.''
 ''People got to lighten up, get a life,'' Mr. McCain said of the ''Bomb Iran'' flap. ''I've been saying the same thing for years: lighten up, get a life.'' 
 Mr. McCain's operation is scaled down, staffed heavily by 20-somethings, many of whom were in high school when their candidate stunned George W. Bush by 17 points in the 2000 New Hampshire primary. They giggle at his laugh lines, though they've heard them a few hundred times, as opposed to the thousands endured by longer-term McCainiacs. Like the one about how Congress's approval rating is so low, ''you're getting down into paid staff and blood relatives.'' And the one about how a man in California told him, ''Hey, you look just like that guy John McCain. Don't it make you mad?''
 And the one about the O'Reilly twins. (Never mind.)
 And that it's wrong to compare the spending habits of Congress to drunken sailors ''because it's unfair to drunken sailors.'' (When asked if he himself had ever fit the description of ''drunken sailor,'' Mr. McCain waxes long-windedly: ''I must say that in my misspent youth, on occasion I might have enjoyed the company of my fellow pilots at happy hour, and the convivial atmosphere was conducive to a certain number of libations.'')
 On Thursday, Mr. McCain was joined on the Straight Talk Express by three young staffers, all of whom, he says, were with the campaign ''on work-release.'' They roll their eyes, and Mr. McCain introduces Brooke Buchanan, his 26-year-old press secretary, as ''Pat Buchanan's illegitimate daughter.'' And, for good measure, ''a drunk.'' 
 There is, at times, an amateurish feel to the operation, as evidenced Wednesday when Ms. Buchanan circulated a speech to reporters that Mr. McCain was preparing to deliver in which he called Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton ''indecisive.'' But Mr. McCain, who had not seen the speech beforehand, decided to give a different one, which made it seem as if he was backing off his critique of Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic front-runner. The apparent reversal led ''The Drudge Report'' for much of the afternoon.
 ''Frankly, life goes on,'' Mr. McCain said. He was referring to the speech episode, but it could work as a campaign slogan.
 Despite his travails, there remains a baseline of appreciation -- even reverence -- for Mr. McCain, even among those who don't support him. ''Hey, I just got called a smartass by John McCain,'' bragged Jared Fernandez, high-fiving a friend. Indeed, Mr. Fernandez, a freshman at the College of Charleston, had just prefaced a question for Mr. McCain with a sarcastic aside that, sure enough, elicited that rejoinder. Mr. McCain meant it lovingly, and Mr. Fernandez, who was wearing a ''Hillary'' button, said he admired the candidate as ''a man of great conviction.'' 
 The episode was reminiscent of the time last month when Mr. McCain called another questioner a ''little jerk,'' and paid with another Drudge headline. Mr. McCain tends to use ''little jerk'' interchangeably with ''pal'' or ''buddy.'' And Mr. McCain pointed out that the kid had expressed concern that the candidate, given his age, could develop Alzheimer's in the White House.
 ''I hope the American people can see that I am not drooling nor senile,'' Mr. McCain said.
 Between Charleston and Pawleys Island, Mr. McCain keeps checking a BlackBerry and reading polls, which show him in the thick of the Republican race. He dons dark sunglasses, squeezes a black Sharpie in his left hand and offers the following: 
 He feels sorry for Britney Spears.
 He's due for a haircut, for which he'll pay $18, with a $5 tip.
 And speaking of haircuts, ''That YouTube clip of John Edwards doing his hair is one of the damnedest things I've ever seen.''
 He once spent three hours in Florida talking to one of his idols, Ted Williams. ''Might have been the most fascinating three hours of my life,'' he said. 
 Mr. McCain is reminded that Mr. Williams's dead body now resides in a cryonics lab in Arizona, which could technically make the Splendid Splinter a constituent. ''When it's time to go, it's time to go,'' he said. ''And I guarantee you Ted felt the same way.''
 He seems to contradict himself at his next speech, to the Pawleys Island Rotary Club, when he suggests that Alan Greenspan lead a panel on simplifying the tax code.
 ''If he's dead or alive, it doesn't matter,'' Mr. McCain said of the 81-year-old Mr. Greenspan, reprising one of the more memorable lines from his uninhibited 2000 campaign. ''Prop him up and put some dark glasses on him, like 'Weekend at Bernie's.''' 
 It's a tough balance in politics: turning back the clock while staying present. ''I'm older than dirt and have more scars than Frankenstein,'' Mr. McCain says (all the time), ''but I've learned a few things.'' He requires no propping up, even if his coffers might. He's back on the bus a few minutes later, rambling on. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain on his way to give a speech to the Rotary Club on Thursday in Pawleys Island, S.C., during a campaign visit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIS GLASSGOW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (57%); GREENHOUSE GASES (56%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); JON STEWART (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (77%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



126 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; QUESTIONS FOR MARIO VARGAS LLOSA; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: The Storyteller

BYLINE: Interview by DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
As Peru's most celebrated writer and a onetime contender for the country's presidency, you have written a surprisingly sentimental novel, ''The Bad Girl'' -- a love story narrated by a bookish Peruvian who moves to Paris and devotes 40 years to pursuing a woman he first met in high school. Ricardo is a translator, which is a reflection of his temperament. He's an intermediary. He has not much personality, and in his life there is only one adventure: the bad girl. Without her, his life is very mediocre, curtailed, without much horizon. 
 Yes, he lacks ambition. Well, his ambition is the bad girl! 
 Do you admire him? I admire most the bad girl. 
 Why is that? She is cold and opportunistic, a gold digger who winds up marrying businessmen in France, England and Japan without feeling an ounce of affection for any of them. I think she is more complicated than that. Look where she comes from. 
 She comes from a social background in which life is a kind of jungle, a place in which if you want to survive, you become an animal. She has been trained to be a kind of fighting animal, and she fights.
 Do you know any bad girls? Yes. Several. Absolutely. In Peru, there are many, but also in France and in Spain. There are a lot of bad girls in America too. 
 No. That's just wrong. We don't have bad girls here. You have been secluded in Manhattan all your life, but go to California, and you will see bad girls. 
 Let's talk about your brief and futile stint in politics. You ran for the presidency of Peru in 1990 and lost to Alberto Fujimori, who just last month was thrown into jail in Lima after being extradited from Chile. I am very happy, of course. It's an example for the future. He was a horrible dictator. He killed so many people; he stole so much money; he committed the most atrocious human-rights abuses. 
 You ran against him on a free-market platform styled after the conservatism of Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan. I am in favor of economic freedom, but I am not a conservative.
 Did you ever meet President Reagan? Once. I said to him, Mr. President, I admire many things that you do, but I cannot accept that for you the most important American writer is Louis L'Amour. How is this possible?
 In addition to fiction, you have written a substantial body of drama and literary criticism, including an appreciation of Gabriel Garcia Marquez, from whom you later became estranged. I don't talk about that. I don't talk about Garcia Marquez, that's all. 
 Compared with his magic realism, your style is more rooted in sprawling, panoramic narratives of the 19th-century novel. My God! I hope this is true. The apogee of the novel was in the 19th century, with Dostoyevsky, Tolstoy, Melville and Dickens.
 Like a character in a Victorian novel, you're married to your first cousin. I fell in love with her. The fact that she was my cousin was not taken into consideration. 
 Your first wife was the sister-in-law of your uncle and supposedly the inspiration for your comic novel ''Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.'' What does all this family romance signify? We would need a psychoanalyst to find out, but I am not in favor of psychoanalysis. So the mystery will prevail.
 What do you have against psychoanalysis? It's too close to fiction, and I don't need more fiction in my life. I love stories, and my life is principally concentrated on stories, but not with a pretense of scientific precision.
 Might you ever write your autobiography? Only if I reach 100 years old will I write a very complete autobiography. Not before. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK GREGORY PETERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LITERARY CRITICISM (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); EXTRADITION (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) PERU (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (73%); ENGLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



127 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Syria Is Said to Be Strengthening Ties to Opponents of Iraq's Government

BYLINE: By HUGH NAYLOR; David S. Cloud contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Syria is encouraging Sunni Arab insurgent groups and former Iraqi Baathists with ties to the leaders of Saddam Hussein's government to organize here, diplomats and Syrian political analysts say. By building strong ties to those groups, they say, Syria hopes to gain influence in Iraq before what it sees as the inevitable waning of the American presence there. 
 ''The Syrians feel American power is much weaker in Iraq than in the past,'' said Ibrahim Hamidi, the Damascus bureau chief of the pan-Arab daily newspaper Al Hayat. ''Now they can take a bold public initiative like helping Iraq's opposition organize without much fear, especially since President Bush has become a lame duck.''
 In July, former Baathists opposed to the Iraqi government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki scheduled a conference for insurgent groups -- including two of the most prominent, the 1920s Revolution Brigades and Ansar al Sunna -- at the Sahara Resort outside Damascus. 
 The meeting followed two others in Syria in January that aimed to form an opposition front to the government of Iraq, and an announcement in Damascus in July of the formation of a coalition of seven Sunni Arab insurgent groups with the goal of coordinating and intensifying attacks in Iraq to force an American withdrawal. That coalition has since expanded to incorporate other groups.
 The July conference was canceled at the last minute, however, indicating the political perils of Syria's developing strategy. It was called off by the government of President Bashar al-Assad, participants, diplomats and analysts said, primarily because of pressure from Iran.
 Iran is Syria's chief ally and a staunch supporter of Iraq's Shiite-dominated government. The Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, visited Damascus just days before the conference was to have taken place. 
 Still, hundreds turned up for the event, including Harith al-Dari, the leader of the Association of Muslim Scholars, a major Sunni opposition group, and other high-profile figures wanted by the Iraqi government. Several said they hoped to reschedule the conference in Syria in the near future.
 ''The American project in Iraq is collapsing, and we decided it was important to reach out to fellow Iraqis now,'' said Nizar Samari, the spokesman for the conference and a former media director for Mr. Hussein. 
 Syria, which the United States accuses of channeling Islamic militants into Iraq, denies any role in organizing groups opposed to the Iraqi government. Analysts and diplomats, however, said they strongly doubted that the groups could operate in Syria, a police state, without the approval of the government. 
 Western diplomats and political commentators differed on the extent of influence Damascus could ultimately wield over the opposition groups. But they agreed that Syria had been using them to show the United States and Iran, often described as the big brother in its longstanding alliance with Damascus, that it had the capacity to play a major role in Iraq's future. 
 ''Iran is the big player in Iraq,'' said Mr. Hamidi, of Al Hayat, ''but it lacks influence on the Baathists and the Sunnis.''
 That would seem to create a natural opening for Syria, a predominantly Sunni country governed by its own version of the Baath Party. But its relations with the Iraqi Baathists have long been strained. Syria backed Iran in its war with Iraq in the 1980s and supported the United States against Mr. Hussein during the Persian Gulf war of 1991.
 So Syria is walking a fine line, forging an ''enemy of my enemy'' relationship with the Iraqi Baathists and insurgents while still maintaining an alliance with Tehran. It is a risky strategy that carries the added danger of possibly incurring the wrath of Al Qaeda. 
 ''The conference brought together those people with a stake in Iraq and some of those who have not allied with America's biggest foe, Al Qaeda,'' said one political commentator, who asked not to be identified out of concern for his safety, referring to the canceled July conference. ''This was a risky move by Syria, because it could draw attacks.''
 After the United States-led invasion of Iraq, which Damascus strongly opposed, Syria became a haven for a number of high-ranking Baathists from Mr. Hussein's government, many of whom were wanted by the American military. Syrian political analysts say they brought with them millions of dollars stolen from Iraq and were given refuge on condition that they kept a low profile because Syria feared reprisals from American forces in Iraq. 
 The Iraqi government has in the past accused Damascus of harboring Iraqis who are aiding the insurgency. And Syria makes no secret of its sympathy for the insurgents.
 ''Syria looks to the resistance as freedom fighters, like George Washington fighting the British,'' said Mahdi Dahlala, a former Syrian minister of information. ''We understand that the rising up against occupation is a natural phenomenon.''
 Syrian authorities have on occasion turned over wanted Iraqis when they wished to placate Washington or Baghdad. In 2005, Mr. Hussein's half brother Sabawi Ibrahim al-Hassan, who was No. 36 of the 55 Iraqis most wanted by the United States military, and 29 other former Baathist officials hiding in Syria were handed over to the Iraqi government on suspicion of aiding the insurgency. 
 But during his visit to Syria in August, Prime Minister Maliki urged President Assad, to no avail, to hand over more wanted Iraqis widely believed to be hiding in Syria. 
 ''Syria is not going hand over any Iraqis to the Iraqi government unless they produce evidence of wrongdoing,'' Mr. Dahlala said.
 Officials in the Bush administration say that Syria has had a mixed record recently, taking some steps that American officials see as helpful in Iraq and others that show that Damascus is seeking to build its own influence there.
 In an interview, a senior Defense Department official praised Damascus for canceling the opposition conference and noted that the Syrians had cracked down to a degree on Islamic militants operating near the border with Iraq, a move long sought by Washington.
 An intelligence assessment released in August in Washington said that the Syrian government had gone after Islamic smuggling networks. But it did so not out of a desire to help the United States, the report said, but because it feared that the groups presented a threat to the Syrian government.
 The report also criticized the Syrians for funneling money to Sunni insurgent groups inside Iraq ''in a bid to increase Syrian influence.''
 Syria has long had a regional strategy of influencing its neighbors' politics by harboring their opposition groups. Washington imposed economic sanctions on Syria in 2004 for, among other things, its support of Hamas and several other militant Palestinian groups. 
 Suspected of orchestrating the 2005 assassination of a former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri, Syria has also come under increasing pressure from the United States and France for its support of Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite militia. 
 Thabet Salem, a Syrian political commentator, said Syria was also exploiting a rift between two former Iraqi Baath Party leaders, Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, a former vice president under Mr. Hussein, and Muhammad Younis al-Ahmed, who is believed to be living in Syria. The two men, accused by Washington and Baghdad of leading and financing terrorist operations in Iraq, have multimillion-dollar bounties on their heads. 
 ''Younis al-Ahmed is trying to go under the umbrella ofthe Syrians as a way to unite the Baathists,'' Mr. Salem said. ''And the Syrians quietly support him, because they could have more control over their actions.''
 In January, Mr. Ahmed held a conference in the northern Syrian city of Homs to try to revive the Iraqi Baath Party. Some Syrians speculated that he wanted to take a more conciliatory stance with the Iraqi government and the United States. His rival, Mr. Douri, who is suspected of having stronger ties with insurgent groups, rejected the conference.
 ''Douri deeply distrusts working with the Syrians because he distrusts the Iranians, who are strong allies with Syria,'' Mr. Salem said. 
 Mr. Ahmed is believed to be garnering increasing support in Syria from former Iraqi Baathists, at the expense of Mr. Douri and other rivals, by offering cash incentives and Syrian residency permits. Loyalty to his leadership is said to be particularly strong among the poorer, Sunni Arab, segments of Syria's two million Iraqi refugees.
 ''Syria could gain tremendous influence in Iraq if it could get control over the Iraqi Baathists,'' Mr. Salem said. ''It has much more in common, ideologically speaking, with them than it does with the Islamists in Hamas.'' 
 A spokesman for Mr. Douri's wing of former Baathists living in Syria, who goes by the nom de guerre Abu Muhammad, condemned Mr. Ahmed and denied suggestions that former Baathists were turning away from Mr. Douri or considering negotiating with Washington. 
 ''We want every American soldier out of Iraq, and we won't stop fighting until that happens,'' Mr. Muhammad said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, a former leader of the Baath Party in Iraq, is among rivals seeking to regain power there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASSIM MOHAMMED/ASSOCIATED PRESS, 2002) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RELIGION (73%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%)

ORGANIZATION: JAISH ANSAR AL-SUNNA (56%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (96%) SYRIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



128 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY12; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; THE CITY LONG ISLAND WESTCHESTER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Stalling Government in Albany

 BODY:
New York's lawmakers are scheduled to go into special session on Oct. 22 for a few hours, perhaps even an entire day. This paltry effort is clearly not enough considering what still needs to be done. 
 Some big items were left on the table when the lawmakers left Albany in June -- campaign finance reform, judges' salaries and a $600 million capital plan that needs to distribute money in ways that create jobs, not political contributors. Political pettiness has also left nearly 90 of Gov. Eliot Spitzer's appointees in limbo, many of them for months.
 This means that the governor's choices for a lot of top jobs, choices usually approved with a nod by the State Senate, cannot do their jobs as well as they could with the full force of the state behind them. Companies negotiating with the heads of state economic development groups, for instance, are left to wonder how long these people will be around since the Senate has yet to confirm them. 
 The fundamental problem here is that the Senate is controlled by Republicans who are still smoldering about the Spitzer administration's efforts to smear their leader, Joseph Bruno, for taking taxpayer-funded aircraft to political events. So the senators are moving in Albany slo-mo -- a speed that is just short of a full, stubborn stop. 
 One name expected to draw the Republicans' ire is H. Dale Hemmerdinger, a good choice by Mr. Spitzer to head the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Senator Bruno has threatened to take an especially hard look at Mr. Hemmerdinger's nomination because Mr. Hemmerdinger, a real estate mogul and former chairman of the Citizens Budget commission, has raised money for the governor. Mr. Bruno may have set a new standard for disingenuous criticism. In the previous administration of Gov. George Pataki, a Republican, fund-raising was practically a job requirement. 
 The Senate's failure to approve Mr. Spitzer's appointees to agencies charged with economic development is crippling. The list of those on hold includes people who should have full authority to negotiate for everything from Manhattan's Javits Center to a mall outside of Syracuse.
 Mr. Spitzer and his team have made missteps. Daniel Gunderson, who was chosen to be upstate economic development czar, first decided to live in Saratoga, one upstate area that plainly does not lack for economic development. He has since wisely rented another apartment in Buffalo, although even that might not be enough for some Republicans. 
 Mr. Spitzer's choice of Angela Sparks-Beddoe for chairwoman of the Public Service Commission, which oversees energy issues in the state, was another error. Ms. Sparks-Beddoe was accused of working for an energy company and the commission while waiting to be confirmed. The Republicans stalled, and eventually she withdrew her name from consideration. 
 The Senate never seemed particularly bothered in the days when Mr. Pataki was loading up state boards and authorities with his political friends. Now, however, it is treating each Democratic appointee like someone being vetted for the Supreme Court. 
 There must be a better, fairer way of approving a governor's appointments than either waving them through or blocking them altogether. The Senate needs to decide quickly on these appointments so that everybody can get back to work, or GBTW, as they are starting to call it in an unnecessarily idle Albany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (62%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



129 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2472 words

HEADLINE: A Made-for-TV Boss Helps Revive ABC

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
Los Angeles
 YOU know Michael Eisner. You know Barry Diller. Meet Stephen McPherson, the latest Hollywood executive cast in the dual roles of entertainment genius and volatile bulldozer. 
 Mr. McPherson, 42, runs the Walt Disney's broadcast television empire. As president of ABC Entertainment, he woos Hollywood divas and indulges advertisers, tweaks prime-time schedules and manages affiliates. Most important, he identifies hit scripts while balancing huge budgets, exhibiting what colleagues and competitors describe as an unusual combination of creative and business acumen.
 Still, Mr. McPherson finds himself on perpetual thin ice. Modern Hollywood -- with its reduced budgets, fraying business models and corporate overlords -- prefers its executives to showcase themselves as cogs toiling for shareholder returns. The brand-conscious Disney, in particular, expects its division chiefs to keep a modest profile, stay on message and play nice with corporate siblings.
 Mr. McPherson does few of those things. He exhibits a blunt, temperamental style that at times creates a frosty relationship with his superiors and leaves subordinates ducking for cover, say current and former Disney executives. He fires off nuclear e-mail messages, fumes over downbeat ratings and once yanked a $10 million comedy after a single broadcast because he didn't like its creative direction. 
 ''He's confident in his opinions. He doesn't sugarcoat. His position doesn't sway in the wind,'' said Rich Frank, former president of Walt Disney Studios. ''That can leave people raw.''
 Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, will decide in the coming months whether to renew Mr. McPherson's contract, which expires next spring. How ABC's schedule fares this fall -- anchored by hits like ''Grey's Anatomy'' and featuring promising newcomers including ''Pushing Daisies'' -- will factor prominently in that verdict. Mr. Iger's decision will also signal the kind of leadership he seeks for a crucial business unit that has only recently emerged from a long run of problems.
 ''Steve is a great television programming executive,'' Mr. Iger said. ''He knows what he likes and he works extremely hard to make ABC's shows better.''
 Keeping the broadcast unit humming is more important than ever for Disney. Its consumer products and theme-park businesses are facing a tougher economy than they did in recent years, and the film studio is grappling with an industrywide slowdown in DVD sales. ABC has its own problems, not the least of which is figuring out how to make money in the age of ad-skipping digital video recorders.
 MR. McPHERSON (pronounced Mc-FUR-son) is by all accounts a programming ace. He was responsible in full or in part for developing 5 of the top 15 shows for the 2006-7 television season, including ''Grey's Anatomy,'' ''CSI: Crime Scene Investigation'' and ''Desperate Housewives.'' Among his other credits are critical favorites like ''Scrubs'' and the drama ''Monk,'' both of which he helped develop in his previous role as head of Disney's internal television studio.
 Writers credit him with making specific creative tweaks that helped some of these shows become hits. Marc Cherry, the creator of ''Desperate Housewives,'' said Mr. McPherson persuaded him to rethink the casting of the show's narrator. ''He suggested -- not ordered, suggested -- that I consider a voice with more theatrics in it,'' Mr. Cherry said. ''I will be forever grateful for that observation.'' 
 When Mr. McPherson took over ABC three years ago, he made some important operational changes, too. He stopped marketing new shows equally, a vestige of the pre-cable era intended to keep producers happy. And he was the first Big Four network executive to aggressively court the country's growing Hispanic audience (including dubbing shows into Spanish and pushing his staff to cast more Hispanic actors).
 ''I didn't do that because I'm a nice guy,'' he said recently over breakfast near ABC's headquarters in Burbank, Calif. ''I did it because it's smart business.'' 
 He also does not dispute that he has left a long trail of hurt feelings and bruised egos in his wake, but he says disagreements are to be expected in any creative business. He also says that he is misunderstood. ''I don't see myself as a bully,'' he says. ''I know I'm demanding. My biggest gift and curse is that I want to win.''
 Mr. McPherson's unit has emerged as an important engine behind Disney's recent earnings momentum. The division reported $733 million in operating income for the first nine months of its 2007 fiscal year, compared with $320 million for the first nine months of 2004. Last spring, ABC secured fat increases in advertising prices, prompting some analysts to upgrade Disney's stock.
 Because more of Mr. McPherson's programming bets are paying off, ABC did not need to make as many pilots in 2007, leading to about $50 million in cost savings, analysts estimate. 
 Though impressive, these critical and financial successes don't guarantee a continued climb for Mr. McPherson at Disney. In an industry built as much on relationships and image as anything else, personal style still matters. 
 Mr. McPherson, who professes a distaste for Hollywood's schmoozy brand of politics and massaging of the press, is well known in the television business for baring his teeth. When Fox extended an episode of ''American Idol'' by 12 minutes in March in an attempt to torpedo ABC's premiere of ''Dancing With the Stars,'' he fired off an angry e-mail message to Fox's top scheduling executive. 
 When bidding on new projects, Mr. McPherson sometimes threatens to cease doing business with the people involved if things do not go his way, say agents who have negotiated with him.
 His personality was on display in May at the industry's high-stakes ''upfront'' presentations, where advertisers place some $9 billion worth of ads for the coming television season. While his counterparts wore dark suits and read scripted remarks off teleprompters, Mr. McPherson strutted the stage with no tie and improvised. Part of his opening line was ''I'm a little upset.'' 
 What followed was a joke about his presentation at the same event a year earlier, when he danced a suggestive cha-cha-cha on stage at Lincoln Center to mark the success of ''Dancing With the Stars.'' Mr. McPherson cracked that he was upset because NBC's president did not up the ante with a splashy performance of his own.
 And that was Mr. McPherson being diplomatic. On other occasions, his comments have made his superiors wince. In July, he called an NBC executive ''either clueless or stupid'' at a press event after the executive sidestepped a question about his involvement in a management shake-up at the network. At a television critics convention, he told a group of reporters that he hoped their absent colleague had been in a car crash, according to two people who were present.
 Mr. McPherson says he does not recall that situation but says he was probably just blowing off steam. ''This is a business where people are constantly throwing bricks at your head,'' he says. ''You would never walk up to a bank officer and say, 'Gee, I really hated that loan.' But people think nothing of ripping apart something I have put my heart and soul into.''
 HIS public comments add to an already strained relationship with his boss, Anne Sweeney, co-chairwoman of the Media Networks Group at Disney. The two are an odd couple in many ways, but their differences are particularly pronounced when it comes to their public personas. To put it in Disney theme-park terms: If she is a perfectly scripted animatronic figurine from It's a Small World, he is a Matterhorn bobsled veering off its track.
 Credit for ABC's turnaround can be a sensitive subject. Ms. Sweeney usually serves as the public face of Disney's television operation, which makes Mr. McPherson worry that his accomplishments go unseen. ''This is a one-person job,'' he said, referring to his ability to run ABC without heavy supervision.
 The pair's working relationship may not have hindered the division's growth -- at least not so far -- but Mr. Iger has made it clear in comments and actions since taking over the company that he does not view warring executives as a healthy dynamic.
 Mr. McPherson said, ''People love to gossip about office politics, but I think our success together speaks for itself.'' 
 Ms. Sweeney said, ''Steve's passion is one of the many things that makes him good at his job.'' 
 In recent months, he has worked to dispel tension between himself and other executives, particularly his successor at ABC Studios, Mark Pedowitz. At a company team-building retreat in July, he matched up with Mr. Pedowitz on stage to kick off a night of corporate karaoke. Their song was ''What the World Needs Now Is Love.''
 In April, Mr. McPherson doled out dollops of thanks to his staff -- literally. To recognize their work on the network's spring pilots, he flew in 12 tubs of ice cream from a New Jersey parlor and pushed a cart up and down the aisles of ABC's corporate headquarters, scooper in hand.
 Unlike many of his peers, Mr. McPherson did not grow up obsessing over television. For a large portion of his childhood, he lived in Europe, where his father was headmaster at the American School of Paris. His television diet consisted of reruns of ''Love Boat'' and ''M*A*S*H.''
 After graduating from Cornell with a political science degree, he went to work on Wall Street as a foreign exchange broker. He handled Australia, which meant going to work in the middle of the night.
 Fed up with Wall Street, he decided to try his hand in the entertainment business in 1990. He set off for Hollywood, where a fraternity buddy, Kevin Reilly, was working in television. With Mr. Reilly's help, he was hired as a production assistant for a producer of ''The Golden Girls.'' His duties, for which he was paid $180 a week, included baby-sitting and chauffeuring.
 He eventually got a programming job at Fox, and moved to Disney's TV studio in the mid-'90s, climbing the ladder to become chief of the division.
 ABC was largely written off by competitors when Mr. McPherson arrived in April 2004. The network, losing the ratings race, had limped along for years. Its handling of the game show ''Who Wants to Be a Millionaire'' had become the textbook example of how to kill a franchise through overscheduling. Some affiliates were in open revolt. Ad sales lagged behind those of some rivals by more than 20 percent.
 Guided by Mr. McPherson, ABC reversed course. The network is now home to a parade of hits, including ''Dancing With the Stars,'' the family drama ''Brothers & Sisters'' and the fish-out-of-water comedy ''Ugly Betty.'' This year, ABC received 70 Emmy Award nominations, the most of any broadcast network. And the network may have another successful series in ''Private Practice,'' which had its debut two weeks ago and is a spinoff of ''Grey's Anatomy.'' 
 Lucky timing helped. Mr. McPherson's predecessors started ''Desperate Housewives'' and the castaways drama ''Lost,'' although Mr. McPherson nurtured them. He also got a big boost from Mr. Iger, who ripped up the network's cumbersome decision-making process, giving Mr. McPherson more power to make programming choices. Now, ABC has been better positioned to beat rivals to hot projects.
 While Mr. McPherson's style may ruffle corporate feathers, it has made him beloved to many actors and producers. In an industry known for its knife-in-the-back approach to business, Mr. McPherson's knife-in-the-front manner stands out and is appreciated, and has been the reason ABC has nabbed some ratings-grabbing stars.
 The Oscar winner Sally Field, the star of the drama ''Brothers & Sisters,'' says she initially had no interest in the show after an earlier, ''horrible'' experience at ABC. Ms. Field, then starring in a series called ''The Court,'' said she got a call one day from an ABC executive professing love for the series. She says she learned a few days later -- by watching an episode of ''Entertainment Tonight'' -- that the network was canceling her series.
 Ms. Field says Mr. McPherson changed her mind about returning to ABC. ''He sent me the loveliest notes about how the network has changed and about his support for me and the show,'' she says. ''It felt like if ABC ended up canceling us overnight, at least someone would call me this time.'' Ms. Field, who won an Emmy Award last month for the role, keeps the e-mail messages on her bulletin board.
 Mr. McPherson has won respect from writers by developing a different kind of reputation. They see him as a type of Mr. Fix-It who has a unique ability to pinpoint subtle script problems.
 Damon Lindelof, executive producer of ''Lost,'' said that he originally planned to kill off the show's hero, Jack, in the first episode but that Mr. McPherson convinced him that it was a bad idea. ''He made us realize that if we killed Jack, the audience would never trust us again,'' Mr. Lindelof said.
 With ''Grey's Anatomy,'' Mr. McPherson made the unusual decision to halt production after just a few episodes because he didn't like the tone of the show. He said some central characters were emerging as too unlikable. Such calls are rare because of the tight production schedule for television shows, and any interruptions can cost millions of dollars.
 ''I don't think the heads of the other networks would have done that,'' said Shonda Rhimes, the ''Grey's Anatomy'' creator. ''It took guts.''
 ALTHOUGH the new television season is only two weeks old, ABC is off to a robust start. It currently ranks No. 1 among adults age 18 to 49, the demographic group that most advertisers pay a premium to reach, according to Nielsen Media Research.
 Of particular note is ''Cavemen,'' a comedy based on a popular series of Geico insurance commercials; it had its premiere on Tuesday. The comedy lured a strong 4.5 million young-adult viewers and was particularly popular with young men -- a group that ABC, heavy on soapy dramas, has struggled to attract. 
 If the series is successful, it could rewrite the relationship between programmers and advertisers. Marketers have long depended on so-called product placement, where items are written into the storyline. But as commercial-skipping DVRs become ubiquitous, some advertisers are pressing networks to create programming that subtly reminds viewers of a brand name.
 The network race is a brutal one, but Mr. McPherson still counts Mr. Reilly as one of his closest friends -- despite the fact that they are professional rivals. Mr. Reilly runs programming at Fox, a job he also held at NBC.
 ''As a friend, he would do anything for me,'' Mr. Reilly said. ''But as a competitor he would like nothing more than to cut off my head.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen McPherson was responsible in full or in part for 5 of the top 15 shows of the 2006-7 season, including ''Grey's Anatomy.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN NEAL/ABC) (pg. 9)
From left, Calista Flockhart, Sally Field and Tom Skerritt in the ABC hit ''Brothers & Sisters.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT GARFIELD/ABC) (pg. 9)
 Stephen McPherson, president of ABC Entertainment, danced onstage at Lincoln Center with Edyta Sliwinska of ''Dancing With the Stars'' last year to promote the network's fall lineup. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA SVENNEVIK/ABC) (pg. 1) CHART: BIG GAINS IN BROADCASTING: Over the last five years, a rebound at ABC has contributed to strong gains in Disney's media networks division. (Source: Walt Disney annual report) (pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (68%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (63%); CD & DVD DRIVES (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (54%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (85%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (66%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (66%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (78%); BARRY DILLER (73%); FRANK RICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



130 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Beth Schonmuller, John Williams

 BODY:
Beth Ann Schonmuller and John Sievert Williams were married yesterday at St. Peter's Catholic Church in Point Pleasant Beach, N.J. The Rev. Curt Kreml performed the ceremony. 
 Mrs. Williams, 28, is an associate at the Chicago law firm Kirkland & Ellis; she works in the Washington office, specializing in general and appellate litigation. From July 2005 to February 2006, she was a special counsel to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary for the confirmations of John G. Roberts Jr. and Samuel A. Alito Jr. to the Supreme Court. She graduated magna cum laude from Harvard, from which she also received her law degree. 
 She is a daughter of Judith Marie Schonmuller and Dr. Arnold Schonmuller of Toms River, N.J. Her father, a cardiologist, is a partner in Brick Cardiovascular Specialists in Brick, N.J. Her mother, who is retired, was the practice's business manager and a genetic counselor at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. 
 Mr. Williams, 30, is an associate at the Washington law firm Williams & Connolly, specializing in general litigation. He graduated magna cum laude from Princeton and received a master's degree in philosophy from Yale. He received his law degree cum laude from Harvard. 
 He is the son of Marsha M. and Lowell C. Williams of Scarsdale, N.Y. His mother is an economics and history teacher at the Bronx High School of Science. His father works in Scarsdale as an executive director of EquaTerra, a management consultancy in Houston. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); CARDIOLOGY (77%); LITIGATION (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DENTISTRY (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: WILLIAMS & CONNOLLY LLP (90%); UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (69%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (79%); SAMUEL ALITO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



131 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly, It's All Greenspan, All the Time

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
ROLL this phrase around in your brain: Alan Greenspan, chatterbox.
 For more than 18 years, that combination of words would have seemed absurd. You could hardly get Mr. Greenspan, the famously cryptic former head of the Federal Reserve, to say anything, lest a casual slip of the tongue send the economy into a tailspin.
 Now, you can't shut the guy up. 
 Watch him yakking with Lesley Stahl on ''60 Minutes'' and Tim Russert on ''Meet the Press'' -- and even with Jon Stewart on ''The Daily Show,'' which proudly bills itself as a fake newscast (though the Stewart interview was probably the most interesting of the bunch).
 There he is, too, on the cover of Newsweek with a rubbery grin from ear to ear. The cover image, like most of his recent appearances, raises an important question: Is he laughing with us, or at us? 
 He has been doing what former Bush administration officials all seem to do these days: criticizing the Bush administration. He joins Paul H. O'Neill, the former Treasury secretary; Colin L. Powell, the former secretary of state; and Richard A. Clarke, the former administration counterterrorism adviser, in denouncing all the terrible things that happened while they were in positions of influence, as if they hadn't been there, or perhaps had been hypnotized.
 Any day now, the ''first dog'' Barney will publish a rip-roaring memoir that compares the commander in chief to a fire hydrant.
 But still. Mr. Greenspan? Spilling beans and saying that the Bush folks have betrayed principle for power? That's awfully strong stuff from a guy who had been such a sphinx. 
 At the height of his power, he could simply say the word ''bubble'' in the context of the stock market and send share prices plummeting by more than 140 points, as he did one day in December 1996.
 I, on the other hand, could walk down Wall Street on stilts, naked except for a coat of viridian body paint, and the financial markets wouldn't respond at all.
 I DECIDED to get to the bottom of this and interview the man myself. How hard could it be? From all appearances, at this point he's working through the local weeklies and auto traders and penny papers to flog his book. So I called up Greenspan Associates L.L.C. -- a ''limited liability company,'' how perfect is that? -- and asked for an interview. The response reminded me of that wonderful New Yorker cartoon of a guy at his desk looking at a calendar and saying, ''No, Thursday's out. How about never -- is never good for you?''
 The actual e-mail message said: 
 ''Dr. Greenspan appreciates your interest. His commitments are so extensive for 2007 and much of 2008 that he must regret your request.''
 ''Regret your request,'' I guess, is the form of regret used in responses to R.S.V.P., where they write ''regrets only.''
 I like the idea that a request for an interview is anything quite as dignified and formal as an engraved invitation. In more literal terms, though, I am pleased to learn that Mr. Greenspan regrets anything. You couldn't tell it by the recent interviews.
 To be fair to him, I did warn his staff that I was hoping to interview him for a column in which I try to commit humor. At The New York Times, we don't pull that Ali G stuff: you get the interview honestly, or you don't get it at all. So I didn't get it. 
 Which goes to show that while he may have become a blabbermouth, he didn't become a fool.
 I'm not bitter. Instead, I'm going to put some of the questions here, and you, loyal readers (Hi, Mom!) can fill in your own answers:
 Mr. Greenspan, you were a gifted jazz musician in your youth. What was your favorite clarinet piece, and why in the world did you hawk those tax cuts of 2001 despite your reputation as a fiscal conservative?
 Who makes coffee in the morning -- you, or Andrea Mitchell?
 When you urged consumers in 2004 to get adjustable-rate mortgages, were you basing that advice on the historical option-adjusted spread and expected future trends, or were you simply reading the entrails of a goat? 
 A lime Rickey is to a chocolate egg cream as a subprime mortgage is to a (fill in the blank).
 If you were a tree, would you be a weeping willow, a spreading oak or a tall poplar?
 Innie or outie?
 And Mr. Greenspan, now that you've seen the kinds of questions I was hoping to ask, I hope that you'll change your mind and stop hiding from me. 
 We can talk at the end of next year, when your schedule opens up. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ISMAEL ROLDAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (60%); COUNTERTERRORISM (51%); TERRORISM (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); JON STEWART (79%); TIM RUSSERT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



132 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Savings Banks Fill the Gap

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
AS the nation's mortgage crisis deepens, consumers looking for loans may find themselves in a place they have not visited in years: their local savings bank.
 Savings banks have in recent weeks reported an increase in mortgage applications, partly because they have stepped up their marketing efforts to reach borrowers with good credit. 
 Take the Ulster Savings Bank in Kingston, N.Y. It recently began advertising mortgages in local newspapers for the first time in years. ''We've seen a window of opportunity to do some loans that we haven't done for some time,'' said Michael Shaughnessy, the chief lending officer.
 This represents a return, of sorts, to the market of 25 years ago, when savings banks dominated the mortgage industry, making low-risk loans to local borrowers and keeping the loans on their books until they were paid off.
 Since then, the mortgage industry has greatly evolved, with investors buying pools of loans from lenders other than depository institutions.
 There are generally three outlets for home loans: mortgage banks, like Countrywide, which issue mortgages and then sell the loans to investors; depositories, like local savings banks or bigger institutions like Wells Fargo Financial, which keep more of the loans on their own books; and mortgage brokers, who market loans for mortgage banks and depositories.
 According to Remoc Associates, a mortgage industry consulting firm in Essex, Conn., until the 1980s, roughly 75 percent of all mortgages originated through depositories. Today, about 75 percent of mortgages originate through mortgage banking operations, with independent brokers handling most of the applications.
 In recent years investors who bought loans from mortgage bankers gained an appetite for riskier loans, and lenders obliged. 
 Now investors have soured on most mortgages, even some to borrowers with excellent credit. Take so-called ''jumbo'' loans, which exceed $417,000, the limit for mortgages that lenders can sell through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored institutions that make a market in mortgages.
 Major lenders have struggled to find investors to buy these loans, and lenders that still offer them have levied high interest rates. (Fixed-rate 30-year jumbo mortgages have been available in recent weeks for 7.75 to 8 percent, more than a percentage point higher than the rate for 30-year loans at or below the $417,000 limit.) 
 Banks that do not sell their loans to investors have stepped into the breach, offering their own jumbo loans at competitive rates. Late last month, the Ulster Savings Bank was offering 30-year fixed-rate jumbo mortgages at 7.25 percent to borrowers with excellent credit. 
 For borrowers, the implications are subtle. Gene Tricozzi, the president of the New York Association of Mortgage Brokers and of the Northern Funding Corporation, a mortgage brokerage in Clifton Park, N.Y., said there were a few practical differences between the two types of mortgage originators.
 Mr. Tricozzi, who was previously a loan officer at a mortgage bank, said that banks sometimes offer customers special deals on services, like checking accounts, if they take out mortgages. And banks that hold their own mortgages can offer more flexible underwriting terms.
 But unlike mortgage brokers, who sell on behalf of multiple lenders, savings banks and mortgage banks typically sell only their own mortgages, Mr. Tricozzi said, limiting borrowers' selection.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (94%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); ULSTER SAVINGS BANK (57%); WELLS FARGO FINANCIAL INC (55%); WELLS FARGO CANADA CORP (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007



133 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Blackwater Chief at Nexus Of Military and Business

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Erik D. Prince, the crew-cut, square-jawed founder of Blackwater USA, the security contractor now at the center of a political storm in both Washington and Baghdad, is a man seemingly born to play a leading role in the private sector side of the war efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 He is both a former member of the Navy Seals and the scion of a fabulously wealthy, deeply religious family that is enmeshed in Republican Party politics. As a result, the 38-year-old Mr. Prince stands at the nexus between American Special Operations, which has played such a critical role in the war operations, and the nation's political and business elite, who have won enormous government contracts as war operations have increasingly been outsourced. 
 Republican political connections ran deep in his family long before Mr. Prince founded Blackwater in 1997. When he was a teenager, religious conservative leaders like Gary Bauer, now the president of American Values, were house guests. James C. Dobson, the founder of the evangelical organization Focus on the Family, gave the eulogy at his father's funeral in 1995. ''Dr. and Mrs. Dobson are friends with Erik Prince and his mother, Elsa Broekhuizen,'' Focus on the Family said in a statement. 
 Mr. Prince's sister, Betsy DeVos, married into one of the most politically active conservative families in the Midwest. She has served as the chairwoman of the Republican Party of Michigan, and last year, her husband, Richard DeVos Jr., ran unsuccessfully for governor of Michigan as the Republican candidate. Mr. Prince and his family have given hundreds of thousands of dollars to Republican candidates and other conservative and religious causes, records show. One favorite: the prison ministry of Charles Colson, the former Watergate felon turned Christian prison evangelist. 
 ''They are conservative Christians, and they have very strong views on the sanctity of human life and the defense of marriage and the role of faith in the public square,'' Mr. Bauer said of the Prince family. ''Those are issues I've been associated with, and so it was a natural relationship,'' he said of his ties to Mr. Prince's parents.
 Unlike many other young men who inherit great wealth, Mr. Prince also struck out on his own and joined the Navy Seals at a time when few other men of his economic class were willing to serve in the military. After his father died and left him a fortune, Mr. Prince's experience in Special Operations led him to found Blackwater, and he has made a point of hiring other former members of the Navy Seals, including some who now play prominent management roles. 
 But now that Blackwater is under scrutiny for its involvement in the Sept. 16 shootings of as many as 17 Iraqis in downtown Baghdad, some critics are questioning whether Mr. Prince's political connections have propelled the company's sudden rise.
 ''He is an ideological foot soldier, not only in the war on terror, but also in the broader Bush agenda,'' said Jeremy Scahill, the author of a new book called ''Blackwater: The Rise of the World's Most Powerful Mercenary Army'' (Nation). ''He is a visionary when it comes to military technology and asymmetric warfare. But he is also a bankroller of Republican and right-wing religious causes.'' 
 Yet supporters say the image of Mr. Prince as a Republican carpetbagger and war profiteer is nothing more than an inaccurate cartoon. ''Republican connections have nothing to do with Blackwater,'' said Chris Taylor, a former Blackwater vice president. 
 ''In the senior positions at Blackwater, there are Democrats,'' he added. ''If Erik is a conservative, I never heard anybody say that you have to be a conservative to be here. People need to know just how exceptional a guy he is. He's very generous, and greatly respected in the company.''
 Mr. Prince did not respond to a request for an interview. But during his Congressional testimony last week, when asked about his political connections, he responded by saying that he did not think his political contributions were ''germane'' to the lawmakers' inquiry into Blackwater's operations in Iraq. 
 Others who know him suggest that there is a more complicated dynamic tension between Erik Prince, the aggressive, no-holds-barred Navy Seals veteran, and Erik Prince, the well-mannered wealthy son, that explains the man and the corporation he has built in his image. 
 ''I think that he thinks he is like Bruce Wayne in Batman,'' said Robert Young Pelton, the author of ''Licensed to Kill'' (Crown Publishing Group), a book on contractors in Iraq, who is one of the few journalists to have interviewed Mr. Prince extensively. ''Bruce Wayne lives in a mansion and then at night he is out in the bat cave with the Batmobile. And that is Erik. I think he is conflicted.'' 
 Mr. Prince grew up in Holland, Mich., where his father, Edgar Prince, had founded the Prince Corporation, an automotive parts supplier to the major car makers based in Detroit. According to Mr. Scahill's book, the trauma of suffering a serious heart attack in the 1970s deepened Edgar Prince's religious faith, and by the 1980s he was helping to finance conservative religious groups like the Family Research Council. 
 Erik entered the Naval Academy, but later transferred to Hillsdale College, a small, conservative school in western Michigan. He also became politically active, working on campus for the presidential campaign of Pat Buchanan in 1992. 
 After college he made it into the Navy Seals following Officer Candidate School, and seemed eager to pursue a military career. But the death of his father, and the illness of Mr. Prince's first wife, who later died of cancer, intervened, and he left the Navy. His family sold the Prince Corporation for more than $1 billion in 1996, a windfall that gave Erik Prince the financial freedom to create Blackwater. 
 Working with another former Seal, Al Clark, Mr. Prince sought to create a world-class training facility that could be used by American military and law enforcement personnel. They built their facility in 1997 on a rural site in North Carolina, just south of the Virginia border near Norfolk, which is home to a major Navy base and other military posts. But it was only after the Sept. 11 attacks that Blackwater began to emerge as a major security contractor in war zones. 
 Mr. Pelton said it would be wrong to assume that Mr. Prince's political connections account for his success. ''It is a mistake to characterize him as his father, or by the right-wing groups his father supported,'' Mr. Pelton said. ''Politically, I think he is more of a libertarian. He hates government sloth, even as his company gets most of its business from the government.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 8 about Erik D. Prince, the founder of Blackwater USA, a security contractor, misstated the location of Hillsdale College, which Mr. Prince attended. It is in southern Michigan, not western Michigan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ali al-Dabbagh, a government spokesman for Iraq, talked to reporters yesterday in Baghdad about the Sept. 16 shootings.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY WATHIQ KHUZAIE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); RELIGION (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); MARRIAGE (76%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); FELONIES (63%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (82%); US NAVY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (96%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



134 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Talk Sense to Democrats

 BODY:
It was an interesting document: a letter from a group of former Democratic leading lights from the Clinton White House and Congress telling their Democratic brethren on Capitol Hill to get their act together and pass the pending free trade agreements with Peru, Panama and Colombia. At home, the trade pacts would provide opportunities for American exporters and help create jobs. In Latin America, the pacts would contribute to economic growth, shake off dependence on the narcotics trade and cement relationships in a region where Washington's influence is increasingly trumped by the well-oiled diplomacy of Venezuela's Hugo Chavez. 
 The arguments are sound. In economic terms, the letter should have also recommended passing the pending agreement with South Korea. These benefits seem unlikely to sway Congressional Democrats. Late last month, key committees in the House and Senate approved the agreement with Peru, but the other three remain snagged on the new Democratic majority's hostility toward trade. 
 The South Korean agreement faces especially stubborn opposition from the Ford Motor Company and Michigan Congressman Sander Levin, who believes Detroit's carmakers got a raw deal. There are winners and losers in all such agreements, and the overall benefit -- an estimated additional $10 billion for the American economy -- should carry the day. 
 With Panama, some lawmakers say they have turned against the pact after its national assembly elected as its leader a man wanted in the United States for the 1992 killing of an American soldier. This is a serious issue and one the White House and State Department should press with Panama's government. Over all, Panama's human rights record is good, and this should not block the agreement. 
 Only Colombia's deal should be delayed. President Alvaro Uribe and his government have not done enough to bring to justice the paramilitary thugs -- and their political backers -- responsible for widespread human rights violations. Colombia is eager for the trade deal, and it has made some progress on human rights. But more is needed and withholding ratification can still be used as a lever to change Mr. Uribe's behavior. Meanwhile, Congress should move quickly to pass the Peru deal, for all the reasons in the Democrats' sensible letter -- and to show Colombia what it's missing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); APPROVALS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (82%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (82%); F (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%)

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (58%); ALVARO URIBE (57%); HUGO CHAVEZ (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PERU (94%); PANAMA (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



135 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: 'Kid Nation' Slips in Viewers but Gains in Advertisers

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
''Kid Nation,'' the CBS reality program that had trouble attracting advertisers because of early criticism of its kids-alone-in-the-desert premise, has nearly tripled its number of advertisers since the series premiere, though the audience has continued to shrink.
 In the program's third episode, broadcast Wednesday, several marketers that had stayed away from the show bought advertising time, among them McDonald's, PetSmart, Lysol and T-Mobile. Those spots increased the number of advertisers supporting the show to more than 20, up 60 percent from a week ago and nearly triple the number on the series premiere. 
 As advertisers arrive, however, they are finding fewer viewers. According to estimates from Nielsen Media Research, the third episode of ''Kid Nation'' drew 7.4 million viewers, down from 7.6 million a week earlier and 9.4 million for the series premiere. Among viewers ages 18 to 49, the crucial group for advertisers, the number of viewers fell to 3.2 million last week from 4 million in its debut. 
 The lone bright spot in viewership has been among children. The number of 2- to 11-year-olds watching ''Kid Nation'' rose to an estimated 787,000 in the third week from 777,000 for the series premiere.
 A McDonald's executive said Friday that the company had decided to advertise on the show after finding that its content fit the company's family-friendly message. 
 ''We believe 'Kid Nation' brings families together and provides entertainment and a fun, shared experience for both children and parents,'' Anja Carroll, director of media for McDonald's USA, said in an e-mail message. 
 Some of the advertising commitments were made before the show went on the air. A spokeswoman for PetSmart said it had agreed to buy its commercial time in the third episode in August, before the premiere.
 ''Kid Nation'' began drawing criticism from child advocates and causing jitters among advertisers well before the program arrived last month. The show takes 40 children, ages 8 to 15, and has them live in a New Mexico ghost town for 40 days without adult supervision, to see if they can build a working economy and society.
 But after taping of the show ended last spring, the mother of one girl who had participated complained to New Mexico state authorities about the living and working conditions and said several children had been injured on the set. CBS acknowledged that one girl had been burned on her face while cooking and that three children had accidentally drunk bleach from an unmarked soda bottle. 
 The New Mexico attorney general's office began an inquiry into whether the program had violated state child-labor laws. A spokesman for the attorney general said last week that the inquiry was continuing; CBS, which during the taping denied access to a state labor department inspector, said it had violated no laws.
 A CBS spokeswoman said Friday that the network ''is pleased with the performance of the show.''
 No injuries have been shown on camera during ''Kid Nation,'' although there were some tense moments during the third episode when one child led a group that was harassing some obviously agitated cattle. 
 The third episode also included some less-than-friendly behavior. CBS censors bleeped out a string of vulgar words shouted by Greg, the 15-year-old from Nevada who is one of the oldest participants, during an argument with some of the younger children.
 The first episode of ''Kid Nation'' featured only three commercial breaks, the first one 38 minutes into the show. Advertisers in the premiere included Maybelline, Sears, Vagisil and Icy Hot pain reliever.
 The second episode attracted a broader array of advertisers, including General Motors' OnStar navigation system. But the roster expanded greatly last week to include the restaurant chain Denny's and the automakers Subaru, Hyundai and Mazda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (87%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); CHILD LABOR (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (73%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); BURN INJURIES (60%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%)

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (70%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (57%); PETSMART INC (57%)

TICKER: PETM (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (70%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS541940 VETERINARY SERVICES (57%); NAICS453910 PET & PET SUPPLIES STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



136 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Who'd Want to Be the Next President?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Politics of Confidence'' (column, Oct. 1):
 Roger Cohen describes the formidable challenge the next president will face trying to repair the damage created by the debacle of the George W. Bush presidency. We are divided, broke and up to our ears in debt, and there is little, even grudging, international respect. 
 We are bogged down in a war we can only lose. Our expensive high-tech military is powerless against our real enemies. 
 For the first time in at least a century, the incoming president will have to deal with other countries from a position of weakness on many problems -- economic, diplomatic, military and moral. 
 Before America can again lead the world toward a better day, a large portion of humble pie must be served up and eaten. 
 Ralph Averill New Preston, Conn., Oct. 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



137 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 3.97 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 4.19 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 3.55 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 TUESDAY
 New Hanover County, N.C., $50 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 WEDNESDAY
 Knoxville Waste Water System Revenue, $75 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Minnesota Public Facilities Authority, $80 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 North Thurston Public Schools, Wash., $67 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Orlando, Fla., $57.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive. 
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Allegheny Energy Supply Company, West Virginia, $215.5 million of debt securities. Goldman Sachs.
 City of Cleveland, $108.4 million of refunding certificates of participation. A.G. Edwards. Delaware Housing, $125 million of single family mortgage revenue bonds. George K. Baum.
 Douglas County Water and Sewer, Ga., $75 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Los Angeles Community College District, $350 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Louisiana Housing Finance Agency, $94.4 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Michigan State Revolving Fund, $275 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Mississippi Development Bond Bank, $52 million of debt securities for Marshall County Industrial Development Authority highway construction. UBS Securities.
 New York Power Authority, $400 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Omaha Public Power, Neb., $245 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Salt Verde Financial Corporation, Ariz., $1.2 billion of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Sherman Health Systems, Ill., $170 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
 State of Connecticut, $250 million of tax obligation bonds. Banc of America Securities.
 Tennessee Housing Development Agency, $150 million of homeownership program bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Regents of the University of California Limited Project, $418 million of revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 West Harris County Regional Water Authority, Tex., $55.2 million of revenue bonds. UBS Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (75%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FIRSTENERGY CORP (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); FE (NYSE) (69%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (69%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (56%); OMAHA, NE, USA (54%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



138 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: 'Socialized' Medicine: And the Problem Is ...?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''The Socialists Are Coming! The Socialists Are Coming!'' (Editorial Observer, Sept. 28), Philip M. Boffey shines some much-needed light on the meaning of the ''s-word,'' but he has barely scratched the surface of Americans' ignorance about socialism. 
 America's publicly financed and government-run systems include not only the Veterans Administration and Medicare -- our most advanced and most efficient health care systems, respectively -- but Social Security, public education, law enforcement at every level, and the biggest socialist boondoggle of all, the military (the recent privatization of which isn't going too well).
 The great Republican coup of the last half-century has been its successful demonization of socialism and its deification of market forces. This has created an ideology that Americans no longer question, despite its dissonance with our own reality, and the fact that it's contradicted by the experience of every other democracy in the world.
 Health care is not a commodity but a necessity, just like education, police protection and national defense, and if calling the efficient provision of health care ''socialism'' is too challenging for American sensibilities, let's just call it ''civilized.'' 
 David Berman New York, Sept. 28, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Who cares what modern health care-delivery methods are called? The elemental problem is that more and more people feel entitled to vast quantities of high-quality health care paid for by someone else. 
 And politicians, ever lusting for office, are only too happy to conjure the ridiculous illusion that A will get top-flight service from B when C is forced by G to pay the bills.
 Donald J. Boudreaux Fairfax, Va., Sept. 28, 2007 The writer is chairman of the economics department, George Mason University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); WRITERS (73%); VETERANS (71%); MEDICARE (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



139 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Newark Loses Unwanted Landmark as Lincoln Motel Goes

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
St. Louis has its swooping arch, San Francisco its bright red bridge and New York that copper-clad lady who stands sentinel in the harbor. 
 Since the 1970s, the northern gateway to this city has been graced by a giant, back-lighted profile of Abraham Lincoln, or at least a rough approximation of the 16th president, imprinted onto plastic. 
 But unlike the landmarks gracing entryways to other great American cities, the yellow sign over Broad Street honoring President Lincoln advertised an establishment best known as a hot-sheet motel and an incubator for prodigious amounts of crime. 
 ''A blemished, rat-infested drug-haven eyesore,'' is how Marc E. Berson, a local real estate developer, described the building, which sits next to Bears and Eagles Riverfront Stadium, where the minor-league baseball team of which he is a co-owner, the Newark Bears, plays to thin crowds. 
 The motel, which hugs Interstate 280 and the train tracks that connect New York to a strand of leafy suburbs, also faces New Jersey Transit's Broad Street Station and the terminus of a new light rail line that wends through downtown Newark. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Berson joined a group of elected officials and neighborhood residents to bid adieu to the Lincoln Motel. Following a rather unflattering eulogy, Mayor Cory A. Booker climbed into the cab of a giant excavating machine and, after a few misses, ripped a crowd-pleasing gash into the motel's ashy-white brick facade with the machine's jaws.
 ''One small blow for man, one giant blow for Newark,'' the mayor said as a plume of dust drifted toward the Passaic River behind him.
 Although there are promising signs of revival on the blocks south and west of Broad Street, it remains to be seen whether the demolition of the Lincoln Motel will spark the long-awaited resurgence that officials have been promising for generations. In the decade since city and county officials poured $30 million into the construction of Riverfront Stadium, the sports bars and restaurants conjured up in promotional material and architectural mockups never arrived to replace the parking lots and adult theaters that are there now.
 In 2000, Miles Berger, the Lincoln Motel's longtime owner, closed it for good and announced grand development plans for the site. Since then, the only activity at the moldering motel involved junkies and prostitutes who made use of its rooms. This time, however, things may be different.
 The Tucker Development Corporation of Chicago, a builder of shopping centers, has said it is planning a mixed-use project on the four-acre site. Rutgers University is building a new $83 million home for its business school one block away. And the Westinghouse factory, an asbestos-drenched beauty that looms over the Broad Street train station, is undergoing decontamination. In its place, city planners envision a high-rise offering market-rate apartments that would appeal to those working in New York, a mere 20-minute train ride away. 
 The quad, as the area is sometimes called, is also a brief stroll from the Newark Museum, the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, the Newark Library and Washington Park, a gracious 18th-century greensward that adjoins a stretch of restored brownstones known as the James Street Commons Historic District.
 ''I've never understood what's taken so long,'' said Steven J. Diner, the provost of Rutgers University's Newark campus, which has 10,500 students and 1,100 faculty members. ''The assets of the area just strike me as overwhelming.'' 
 But in a city whose assets have long been overshadowed by its blemishes, the neighborhood still faces a few hurdles. 
 Besides a jewelry store named Mister Lou's Gems and a grimly lighted fried chicken joint, there is precious little to eat or buy, although the Cameo Twin Theater, whose cinematic delights appeal to those of all sexual orientations, keeps its doors open day and night. Those who work downtown or study at one of the nearby colleges say they do not relish the walk to the Broad Street Station, especially after dark. 
 Ryan Broadlin, 23, a student at Rutgers Law School, said during one such walk last year he watched in disbelief as a man being pursued by the police was stopped by a gunshot to the leg. More recently he came across a stunningly large pool of blood in the middle of the street. 
 Before it began its decline, the Lincoln Motel provided the younger set with relatively wholesome distractions. In the late 1970s, it was home to Club Zanzibar, New Jersey's answer to Studio 54. Mr. Berger, the motel's owner, brought in some of the disco era's finest D.J.'s, and the club's opening night drew thousands of revelers, Kool and the Gang and caged lions. 
 It was 1976 when Mr. Berger, a 22-year-old entrepreneur, bought what was then an abandoned Holiday Inn for about $500,000. ''I saw an ad in the newspaper, came right out here with my brother one Sunday and said, 'This is ours,''' he recalled.
 Mr. Berger, who has since amassed one of the largest real estate portfolios in the city, said he renamed the motel for Lincoln after learning that the president, bound by train for his 1861 inauguration in Washington, had stopped at Broad Street for a quick speech.
 Despite Mr. Berger's lofty intentions, it was not long before the motel became a magnet for nefarious activity. For a time, arrests were so common that a motel floor plan graced the wall of the public defender's office to assist lawyers juggling cases. In the 1980s, Mr. Berger turned its 200 rooms into a haven for welfare recipients, earning about $1,000 a month per person. 
 When the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch of New York needed a place to send that city's overflow homeless population, it found Mr. Berger a willing partner. That provoked some anger from state and city officials here who thought it was unseemly for New Jersey to be housing New York's dispossessed. 
 Clement A. Price, a professor of history at Rutgers, said the Lincoln Motel's prominent sign stood as a depressing symbol of Newark's downfall. ''I always thought it a shame that it was on New Jersey's grandest street,'' he said. ''To me it became a metaphor for Newark's real and perceived pathologies.''
 City officials are hopeful that its demolition -- and replacement with privately financed housing -- will become a different kind of symbol. Stefan Pryor, Newark's deputy mayor for economic development, said the city was drawing up a master plan for the neighborhood that, over time, would transform the area into a vibrant node for New York-bound commuters, college students and downtown office workers. ''It won't happen overnight, but we think the area has one of the greatest development potentials in the city,'' he said. 
 Before taking a whack at the building, Mr. Booker stood before a small crowd and bid the motel good riddance. ''We're going to see an incredible new light shine from this site,'' he said. ''But right now, I have a lot of built-up energy that I need to unleash on this building.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in some editions yesterday about the demolition of the Lincoln Motel, an unsightly Newark landmark, misidentified the road that, along with nearby railroad tracks, forms a V that hugs the hotel. It is Broad Street, not Route 280.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Lincoln Motel lay near a Newark transportation hub. (PHHOTOGRAPH BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); TRAINS (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); COUNTIES (69%); BASEBALL (68%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); ASBESTOS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); RETAILERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



140 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Google and I.B.M. Join in 'Cloud Computing' Research

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Even the nation's elite universities do not provide the technical training needed for the kind of powerful and highly complex computing Google is famous for, say computer scientists. So Google and I.B.M. are announcing today a major research initiative to address that shortcoming. 
 The two companies are investing to build large data centers that students can tap into over the Internet to program and research remotely, which is called ''cloud computing.'' 
 Both companies have a deep business interest in this new model in which computing chores increasingly move off individual desktops and out of corporate computer centers to be handled as services over the Internet. 
 Google, the Internet search giant, is the leader in this technology. But companies like Yahoo, Amazon, eBay and Microsoft have built Internet consumer services like search, social networking, Web e-mail and online commerce that use cloud computing. In the corporate market, I.B.M. and others have built Internet services to predict market trends, tailor pricing and optimize procurement and manufacturing.
 Behind these services are data centers that typically use thousands of processors, store countless libraries of data and engage specialized software to tackle what scientists call Internet-scale computing challenges. This new kind of data-intensive supercomputing often involves scouring the Web and other data sources in seconds or minutes for patterns and insights.
 Most of the innovation in cloud computing has been led by corporations, but industry executives and computer scientists say a shortage of skills and talent could limit future growth. 
 ''We in academia and the government labs have not kept up with the times,'' said Randal E. Bryant, dean of the computer science school at Carnegie Mellon University. ''Universities really need to get on board.''
 Six universities will be involved in the initiative. They are Carnegie Mellon, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University, the University of California, Berkeley, the University of Maryland and the University of Washington. 
 Google is building a data center, at an undisclosed location, that will contain more than 1,600 processors by the end of the year. I.B.M. is also setting up a data center for the initiative.
 The centers will run an open-source version of Google's data center software, and I.B.M. is contributing open-source tools to help students write Internet programs and data center management software.
 The data centers under way have a small fraction of the computing firepower behind Google's Internet search service. But they will be big enough, scientists say, to do ambitious Internet research. Setting up and running such centers, including providing the electricity and technical staff, is difficult and expensive. The two companies, a person who was told of their plans said, have committed a total of $30 million over two years for the project.
 ''This is a huge contribution because it allows for a type of education and research that we can't do today,'' said Edward Lazowska, a computer science professor at the University of Washington.
 The companies' and academics' long-term goal is to expand the data-center clusters so students from many schools can participate and to enlist the support of other companies and the federal government. 
 The companies and university scientists involved in the initiative have talked to the National Science Foundation and other agencies. 
 The collaboration began after a meeting in December between Eric E. Schmidt, chief executive of Google, and Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M.'s chief executive, at Google's headquarters in Mountain View, Calif.
 In an interview on Friday, Mr. Schmidt recalled that he had sketched out his vision of cloud computing on a whiteboard, emphasizing its potential economic and social importance, and urged the I.B.M. chief to cooperate to build the skills needed.
 At the time, Mr. Palmisano said, he had just come out of a day of technology briefings at I.B.M., and his company is doing a lot of research in the same field. I.B.M. also has deep knowledge and experience in building and managing complex data centers.
 Mr. Schmidt said, ''I.B.M. has some of the best technology in the industry, and we couldn't have done this without them.''
 Mr. Palmisano noted that cooperation between the two companies was easier because Google is mainly a consumer company, while I.B.M. concentrates on the corporate market. ''We're more complementary than anything else,'' Mr. Palmisano said. ''We don't really collide in the marketplace.''
 And by helping university students, I.B.M. and Google hope to help themselves in the marketplace.
 ''We're trying to create the easiest possible on-ramp for universities into this world of cloud computing,'' said Stuart I. Feldman, a vice president of engineering at Google and a former senior researcher at I.B.M. ''But yes, this kind of computing is core value to Google and I.B.M. We have an interest, no doubt.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CLOUD COMPUTING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TRENDS (67%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



141 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: The Battle for the Consumer Online

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Quick, name the competitors of U.S. News & World Report. Time and Newsweek, right? Would you believe Consumer Reports?
 These are hard times for newsmagazines, and many of them are tweaking their offerings, looking for new ways to thrive -- or just to survive. But U.S. News wants to take on a new role, as a definitive source of information and ratings on a range of expensive consumer products.
 The first step in that strategy went public Friday on a magazine Web site (usnews.rankingsandreviews.com/cars-trucks) and today on newsstands -- rankings, reviews and information on nearly every model of car, truck, minivan or sport utility vehicle available on the American market.
 In the 1980s, U.S. News discovered a popular audience for authoritative-sounding statistical rankings, beginning with the annual report on colleges that is widely second-guessed -- and even more widely read. It later did the same thing with hospitals, graduate schools, high schools and even places to retire. 
 The magazine wants to extend that practice to mostly high-end goods, starting with the automotive rankings, followed over the next few years by detailed rankings of things like video cameras, television sets and digital music players. This is less about selling particular issues of the magazine than about driving traffic year-round to Web sites with vastly more material on those products than will fit on printed pages.
 The plan is a gamble on where U.S. News's future lies -- a future that its owner, Mortimer B. Zuckerman, describes in terms of shopping as much as news. In an interview in his office on the East Side of Manhattan, Mr. Zuckerman repeatedly cited market research showing that most Americans do research online before making big purchases.
 After two decades of rankings, ''we have branded credibility,'' he said. ''You'd have to be blind not to see what is the economic strength of the franchise.''
 Building credibility in a new area, however, may take some doing. In its automotive rankings, U.S. News assigns an overall numerical score to each vehicle -- along with subscores in a handful of areas -- and offers quick, easy-to-use comparisons of that grade to all the others in its class. 
 But the central feature, the score, is not the product of U.S. News's own detailed analysis of a car or truck. Rather, it is an analysis of other people's analyses.
 The magazine has searched the work of dozens of automotive reviewers at newspapers and magazines, assigned a numerical value to each review (a process U.S. News describes as complex, rigorous and top secret), and then aggregated those into final scores. The Web site offers a description of each vehicle, sprinkled with snippets of quotes from those reviewers, so that it reads as much like a Zagat's restaurant blurb as something you might find in Consumer Reports.
 ''The goal is to take as much subjectivity out of it as possible,'' said Rick Newman, a deputy business editor and writer who runs the magazine's automotive coverage. ''You read a car review, all you're reading is some guy's opinion. What we're doing is taking all the credible information that we think is out there. The end result certainly smoothes out a lot of the opinions.''
 Roberta Garfinkle, a senior vice president of TargetCast TCM, an advertising buyer, called the single-focus issues and the Web site ''an excellent way to draw some advertisers into the franchise that normally would not be there,'' like autos and luxury goods. 
 ''They've got to try something'' to set the magazine apart from its peers, she said. A magazine's reinventing itself used to be seen as a sign of desperation, Ms. Garfinkle added, ''but it's what everybody has to do now to survive.''
 Newsweeklies, like newspapers, have been bleeding revenue for years, and analysts, along with current and former executives, say that U.S. News breaks even, at best. (As a privately held company, it does not release financial information.) It had $126 million in ad revenue in the first half of the year, compared with $224 million for Newsweek and $252 million for Time, according to the Magazine Publishers of America. Paid circulation of U.S. News is about two million, while the two others are above three million. 
 U.S. News already stood apart from Time and Newsweek in 1984, when it was bought by Mr. Zuckerman, a big real estate developer based in Boston. It had a smaller staff and so, making a virtue of necessity, it offered less straight news coverage of recent events and more news analysis. And it had almost none of the lighter content, like sports or entertainment, that its competitors put in the back section of each issue.
 Mr. Zuckerman brought in new editors and strengthened the emphasis on analysis. He mandated a new ''back of the book,'' made up of practical advice for consumers on personal finance, health, technology, travel and education, an approach that grew indirectly into the rankings.
 The strategy worked. Readership rose and the magazine became highly profitable, according to analysts and former executives.
 But over the years, a lot of other magazines made similar changes, with more analysis and ''news you can use,'' while U.S. News experienced rapid turnover among top editors. By the mid-1990s, many people at the magazine were suggesting that Mr. Zuckerman's attention had moved on to his other pursuits -- New York's Daily News, The Atlantic and, of course, his real estate business -- and that U.S. News had lost much of its innovative edge.
 ''If Mort is engaged again,'' said Thomas R. Evans, who served as the magazine's president and publisher in the 1990s, ''it's a good thing for the magazine because the guy just sees the world better than other people do.''
 U.S. News says that at least one early sign of its online experiment is positive: at the outset, advertising on the automotive rankings site, which has thousands of pages, is sold out.
 In the printed magazine, ''we used to get 500 pages a year of ads out of Detroit, and now we're down below 50,'' acknowledged Mr. Zuckerman, who writes a column for U.S. News and has the title of editor in chief.
 When it came to rating hospitals and colleges for a mass audience, U.S. News all but invented the field, but any number of Web sites, magazines and newspapers rank cars and electronics. Rating consumer products ''is crowded territory,'' said Lee Rainie, a U.S. News managing editor in the 1990s, ''so it will be tougher to establish the kind of authority'' the magazine has with colleges. Current editors at the magazine agree.
 To be successful, U.S. News has to find a broad audience that is not comfortable with magazines aimed at enthusiasts, and wants some of the nuts-and-bolts practicality of Consumer Reports, but without the online subscription charges. ''They probably should have done something like this a lot sooner,'' Mr. Evans said.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Monday with an article in Business Day about efforts by U.S. News & World Report to build a business in information and ratings misstated the other journalism interests of its owner and editor in chief, Mortimer B. Zuckerman. Although he is indeed the publisher of The Daily News, he no longer owns The Atlantic Monthly. (He sold it to David G. Bradley, a Washington businessman, in 1999.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mortimer B. Zuckerman's interests include The Daily News and The Atlantic as well as U.S. News & World Report. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); RANKINGS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (75%); NEWSSTANDS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



142 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: As a Corporation Leaves Town, Grants for the Arts Go With It

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
For four decades, as New York's arts scene flourished, the most reliable source of corporate funds for the city's dance companies, theaters and art museums was the Philip Morris Companies, maker of the world's most popular cigarette.
 At first, some arts groups hesitated to take funds from a tobacco company. But most of them got over it, and now more than 200 organizations in New York, including many known for experimental work, receive a total of about $7 million every year from the company known for the last few years as the Altria Group.
 That money is about to go away as Altria prepares to move its headquarters out of New York because of a corporate reorganization of its tobacco business.
 The city's arts world is bracing for the money to run out. Arts groups as varied as the Urban Bush Women in Brooklyn and the Dance Theater Workshop in Manhattan are hustling to find other companies, hedge funds or real estate developers to replace Altria's grants. 
 Karen Brooks Hopkins, president of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, said she was initially stunned when she learned that Altria would discontinue its funding, which included a $375,000 donation last year. 
 The company has been the primary sponsor of the academy's Next Wave Festival since its inception in 1983, and Ms. Hopkins and her staff are seeking new sponsors.
 ''They did it because they saw the vision. They got it,'' she said. ''It's hard to get money for the arts. It's even harder the more experimental and unusual the program.''
 The separated companies will continue to make charitable contributions but are expected to spend most of their money in areas other than New York.
 Jennifer P. Goodale, a former actress who is Altria's vice president for contributions, said in an e-mail message: ''It is unlikely that Altria will be funding arts organizations in New York in the future because, as far as we know, there will be no Altria corporate contributions program, which is a result of the decentralization we've been working on over the past few years.''
 In New York and elsewhere, it is not uncommon for corporate benefactors to come and go because of mergers, economic downturns or relocations. For instance, the Metropolitan Opera scrambled to find a new sponsor for its Saturday broadcasts after ChevronTexaco withdrew its financing in 2003. (Texaco, which Chevron bought in 2000, had sponsored the show for decades; Toll Brothers, the home builder, is now the sponsor.)
 The Metropolitan Museum of Art, meanwhile, was forced to raise its optional admission prices in the late 1990s after the Reader's Digest Association cut its stock dividend during a slump. The museum was a beneficiary of a sizable chunk of stock.
 But few corporations have been as dependable in funding the arts over decades as Altria has. The company has been warning since 2005 that it would scale back its donations; the last checks to New York groups run through 2008. 
 Several arts groups said they were not optimistic that another patron the size of Altria would emerge.
 ''It's going to be hard for many of us,'' said Patricia Cruz, executive director of the Harlem Stage, which received $125,000 last year from Altria. ''I hope people look at this as a vacuum to be filled rather than leading an exodus.''
 Altria has consistently ranked among the top three corporate contributors to the arts in the city, while the other top spots rotated among companies that included Time Warner and American Express, said Will Maitland Weiss, executive director of the Arts and Business Council of New York. Nationally, Altria ranked 11th in corporate giving last year with about $200 million in cash and in-kind donations, according to The Chronicle of Philanthropy.
 Besides plowing millions into the arts across the country, Altria has been a major contributor to domestic violence shelters, hunger programs and disaster relief. In the last decade, the company and its subsidiaries donated $1.5 billion in cash and in-kind contributions to charity.
 The charitable work for which Altria, called the Philip Morris Companies until 2003, is best known is its contributions to the arts, particularly in New York. The company is credited with being an early pioneer in corporate giving, not just for the sums it donated but for the cleverness with which it did so, encouraging new and innovative works.
 David Parsons, co-founder and artistic director of Parsons Dance, said a donation from Philip Morris in 1985 gave his new dance company a much-needed ''shot in the arm.'' He has received annual donations from Altria since.
 ''Here's what it was -- the Good Housekeeping seal of approval,'' Mr. Parsons said during a break in a recent rehearsal. ''It opens doors. Other funders see that, and they take a second look at you.'' 
 Philip Morris made its first corporate donation in the mid-1950s to the United Negro College Fund. Its first donation to the arts was in 1958, when it offered the ''Philip Morris Festival of the Stars,'' a free outdoor concert in Louisville, Ky., where it operated a factory.
 In 1965, the company sponsored a traveling exhibition of modern art called Pop & Op that featured 65 artists, including Jasper Johns and Roy Lichtenstein. Two years later, it made its first contribution to the Whitney Museum of American Art, and a year after that to the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
 Philip Morris began providing money to dance companies in the 1970s and aggressively funded new works beginning in 1983 with the New York City Ballet. Since then, it has paid for new works by troupes as varied as the Mark Morris Dance Group and Shen Wei Dance Arts.
 The company focused its dollars on visual arts and dance because several former chief executives, including Joseph F. Cullman III and George Weissman, were passionate about them. Both Mr. Cullman and Mr. Weissman served on the boards of directors of arts organizations, like many subsequent Philip Morris and Altria executives.
 ''Our program is not about our products; it's about reputation,'' Ms. Goodale, the Altria vice president, said. ''Creativity and innovation are some of our greatest attributes. What better way to reflect that than to support the arts?''
 Others have long taken a warier view of Altria's donations and its motives. Over the years, a smattering of artists objected, and so did health advocacy groups trying to call attention to the death toll from smoking.
 The company's philanthropy ''has bought it a better image, and frankly, the silence of some powerful voices who would normally be expected to speak out about the tobacco public-health problem,'' said Matthew L. Myers, president and chief executive of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, in Washington. 
 He noted that arts organizations getting money from the company had sometimes served its corporate interests. In 1994, for instance, Philip Morris asked arts groups that it funded to put in a good word for them with the New York City Council when it was considering a bill to ban smoking in public places.
 Mr. Myers said he had long refused to attend cultural events sponsored by Altria, and added that his wife was thrilled by Altria's pending reorganization because she would finally be able to attend shows by companies like the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater.
 Altria is spinning off its international tobacco business, Philip Morris International, but will continue to hold Philip Morris USA and other American interests. Both Philip Morris companies sell Marlboro, the world's most popular cigarette. Altria also owns Kraft Foods, the maker of Jell-O and Maxwell House coffee, and about 29 percent of SABMiller, the maker of Miller beers. As part of the breakup, Altria will sell its headquarters on Park Avenue, which includes a satellite wing of the Whitney Museum, and move most of its operations to Richmond, Va. Philip Morris International will retain a small office in New York, but most of its corporate operations will remain in Lausanne, Switzerland.
 The goal of the breakup is to give the foreign arm, Philip Morris International, more freedom to pursue emerging cigarette markets without being hindered by the regulatory and legal problems facing its business in the United States.
 Neither the Whitney nor Altria has announced what will become of the Whitney Museum at Altria in the Park Avenue headquarters, though zoning rules currently require the space to be set aside for public use.
 The loss of Altria's annual donation is particularly painful for smaller arts groups like the Big Dance Theater, an experimental company that combines theater and dance. Altria has been its only corporate sponsor; as a parting gesture, it gave the group $15,000, three times the annual norm.
 Some of that money was used for its latest work, ''The Other Here,'' which includes a monologue with exaggerated hand gestures that was inspired by the evacuation manual for 120 Park Avenue, Altria's headquarters.
 ''They see a company that they think is doing valuable work and they'll say, 'Whatever you are doing next, we're there for you,' '' said Annie-B Parson, the theater's co-artistic director. ''I can't tell you how valuable that is. I can't think of a way to replace the hole they are leaving, yet.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about the effect Altria's decision to move its corporate headquarters to Virginia would have on financing for arts programs in New York misstated the corporation's current holdings. Altria owns Philip Morris USA and a stake in SABMiller. It does not own Kraft Foods, which was spun off from Altria in early 2007.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Altria has supported established groups and experimental work. Its sponsorships have included, from left, the 2006 Whitney Biennial, the New York City Opera and the Dance Theater Workshop.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); DANCE (90%); THEATER (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CHARITABLE GIVING (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); DIVIDENDS (60%)

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (98%); CHEVRON CORP (72%); READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (83%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (98%); CVX (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (98%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



143 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Same Old Party

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
There have been a number of articles recently that portray President Bush as someone who strayed from the path of true conservatism. Republicans, these articles say, need to return to their roots.
 Well, I don't know what true conservatism is, but while doing research for my forthcoming book I spent a lot of time studying the history of the American political movement that calls itself conservatism -- and Mr. Bush hasn't strayed from the path at all. On the contrary, he's the very model of a modern movement conservative.
 For example, people claim to be shocked that Mr. Bush cut taxes while waging an expensive war. But Ronald Reagan also cut taxes while embarking on a huge military buildup. 
 People claim to be shocked by Mr. Bush's general fiscal irresponsibility. But conservative intellectuals, by their own account, abandoned fiscal responsibility 30 years ago. Here's how Irving Kristol, then the editor of The Public Interest, explained his embrace of supply-side economics in the 1970s: He had a ''rather cavalier attitude toward the budget deficit and other monetary or fiscal problems'' because ''the task, as I saw it, was to create a new majority, which evidently would mean a conservative majority, which came to mean, in turn, a Republican majority -- so political effectiveness was the priority, not the accounting deficiencies of government.''
 People claim to be shocked by the way the Bush administration outsourced key government functions to private contractors yet refused to exert effective oversight over these contractors, a process exemplified by the failed reconstruction of Iraq and the Blackwater affair. 
 But back in 1993, Jonathan Cohn, writing in The American Prospect, explained that ''under Reagan and Bush, the ranks of public officials necessary to supervise contractors have been so thinned that the putative gains of contracting out have evaporated. Agencies have been left with the worst of both worlds -- demoralized and disorganized public officials and unaccountable private contractors.''
 People claim to be shocked by the Bush administration's general incompetence. But disinterest in good government has long been a principle of modern conservatism. In ''The Conscience of a Conservative,'' published in 1960, Barry Goldwater wrote that ''I have little interest in streamlining government or making it more efficient, for I mean to reduce its size.''
 People claim to be shocked that the Bush Justice Department, making a mockery of the Constitution, issued a secret opinion authorizing torture despite instructions by Congress and the courts that the practice should stop. But remember Iran-Contra? The Reagan administration secretly sold weapons to Iran, violating a legal embargo, and used the proceeds to support the Nicaraguan contras, defying an explicit Congressional ban on such support.
 Oh, and if you think Iran-Contra was a rogue operation, rather than something done with the full knowledge and approval of people at the top -- who were then protected by a careful cover-up, including convenient presidential pardons -- I've got a letter from Niger you might want to buy.
 People claim to be shocked at the Bush administration's efforts to disenfranchise minority groups, under the pretense of combating voting fraud. But Reagan opposed the Voting Rights Act, and as late as 1980 he described it as ''humiliating to the South.''
 People claim to be shocked at the Bush administration's attempts -- which, for a time, were all too successful -- to intimidate the press. But this administration's media tactics, and to a large extent the people implementing those tactics, come straight out of the Nixon administration. Dick Cheney wanted to search Seymour Hersh's apartment, not last week, but in 1975. Roger Ailes, the president of Fox News, was Nixon's media adviser.
 People claim to be shocked at the Bush administration's attempts to equate dissent with treason. But Goldwater -- who, like Reagan, has been reinvented as an icon of conservative purity but was a much less attractive figure in real life -- staunchly supported Joseph McCarthy, and was one of only 22 senators who voted against a motion censuring the demagogue.
 Above all, people claim to be shocked by the Bush administration's authoritarianism, its disdain for the rule of law. But a full half-century has passed since The National Review proclaimed that ''the White community in the South is entitled to take such measures as are necessary to prevail,'' and dismissed as irrelevant objections that might be raised after ''consulting a catalogue of the rights of American citizens, born Equal'' -- presumably a reference to the document known as the Constitution of the United States.
 Now, as they survey the wreckage of their cause, conservatives may ask themselves: ''Well, how did we get here?'' They may tell themselves: ''This is not my beautiful Right.'' They may ask themselves: ''My God, what have we done?''
 But their movement is the same as it ever was. And Mr. Bush is movement conservatism's true, loyal heir. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OUTSOURCING (86%); HISTORY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX LAW (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



144 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: The American Dream in Reverse

 BODY:
For the first time since the Carter administration, homeownership in the United States is set to decline over a president's tenure. When President Bush took office in 2001, homeownership stood at 67.6 percent. It rose as the mortgage bubble inflated but is projected to fall to 67 percent by early 2009, which would come to 700,000 fewer homeowners than when Mr. Bush started. The decline, calculated by Moody's Economy.com, is inexorable unless the government launches a heroic effort to help hundreds of thousands of defaulting borrowers stay in their homes. 
 These days, modest relief efforts are in short supply, let alone heroic ones. Some officials seem to think that assistance would violate the tenet of personal responsibility that borrowers should not take out loans they cannot afford. That is simplistic. 
 The foreclosure crisis is rooted in reckless -- and shamefully underregulated -- mortgage lending. Many homeowners -- mainly subprime borrowers with low incomes and poor credit -- are now stuck in adjustable-rate loans that have become unaffordable as monthly payments have spiked upward. Their predicament is not entirely of their own making, and even if it were they would need to be bailed out because mass foreclosures would wreak unacceptable damage on the economic and social life of the nation. 
 The relief efforts so far have been too little, too late. In August, the White House established a program to allow an additional 80,000 borrowers to refinance their loans through the Federal Housing Administration -- on top of 160,000 who were already eligible. That's not enough. Foreclosure filings soared to nearly 244,000 in August alone. 
 Federal regulators and Treasury officials are urging mortgage lenders and mortgage servicers to do their utmost to modify loan terms for at-risk borrowers, but saying ''please'' hasn't worked. To be effective, modifications must reduce a loan's interest rate or balance or extend its term, or some combination of the three. Gretchen Morgenson reported recently in The Times that a survey of 16 top subprime servicers by Moody's Investors Service found that in the first half of the year, modifications were made to an average of only 1 percent of loans on which monthly payments had increased.
 What's missing is executive leadership to bring together many players, including lenders, servicers, bankers and various investors. All of them are affected differently depending on whether and how a borrower is rescued, which makes it difficult to agree on a rescue plan. But all of them also made megaprofits during the mortgage bubble. Under firm leadership, they could come up with a way to modify many loans that are now at risk.
 Democratic Congressional leaders have called on the Bush administration to appoint one senior official to lead a foreclosure relief effort. The White House dismissed the idea, saying, in effect, that it's doing enough. 
 Congress should move forward on other remedies. The most important is to mend an egregious flaw in the current bankruptcy law that prohibits the courts from modifying repayment terms of most mortgages on a primary home. Two bills, one in the House and one in the Senate, would treat a mortgage like other secured debt, allowing a bankruptcy court to restructure it so that it's affordable for the borrower. That would give defaulting homeowners and their advocates much needed leverage in dealing with lenders and servicers. Creditors would presumably prefer to cut a deal with a borrower rather than be subject to the decision of a bankruptcy judge.
 The administration and Congress should work to avoid mass foreclosures. Meanwhile, bankruptcy reform would give borrowers a shot at keeping their homes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



145 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Kim Jong-il's Last Card

BYLINE: By JASON T. SHAPLEN and JAMES LANEY. 
Jason T. Shaplen was a policy adviser at the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization from 1995 to 1999. James Laney was the ambassador to South Korea from 1993 to 1997.

 BODY:
ONE year ago tomorrow, North Korea conducted its first nuclear test, a small explosion that established it as the newest member of the world's nuclear club. Strangely, since then, the prospects for peace and stability in northeastern Asia have never been better. North Korea's agreement, last week, to disable all its nuclear facilities by year's end is the biggest step so far in the right direction. 
 The nuclear test seemed to give President Bush focus. He took control of his administration's policy toward the North, ending a six-year feud between hard-line conservatives who favor the collapse of Kim Jong-il's regime and others who favor negotiation. Eager for a foreign policy success before leaving office, Mr. Bush granted substantial negotiating power to Christopher R. Hill, the State Department's point person on North Korea, and instructed him to reach a deal. 
 By January, Mr. Hill had met in Berlin with his North Korean counterpart and worked out the broad outline of an accord under which the North would end its nuclear program in exchange for economic, energy and humanitarian aid and better relations with Washington. By February, talks in Beijing that included the United States, China, North and South Korea, Japan and Russia formalized the agreement. The North would shut down its nuclear program within 60 days and then, on a timeline to be determined, disable it.
 Almost immediately, the deal ran into trouble over the agreed-upon transfer of $25 million that had been frozen in North Korean bank accounts in Macao. North Korea wanted the funds transferred through a process that would in effect readmit it to the global banking system. The United States did not. The issue was creatively resolved in June through a web of international transfers, and the next month North Korea shut down its nuclear facilities, with the International Atomic Energy Agency watching. 
 The speed of progress over the past year has surprised almost all North Korea watchers. Whether by necessity or desire, the North seems more genuine about wanting to improve its relations with the global community today than at any time since fighting in the Korean War ended in 1953. In addition to shutting down its nuclear program, North Korea agreed to last week's summit meeting between Kim Jong-il and South Korea's president, Roh Moo-hyun, during which they discussed further economic cooperation and the prospects of a peace treaty.
 Still, the nuclear accord is ambiguous on one issue that threatens to derail it: the question of what will happen to North Korea's existing stockpile of fissile material. The country has reprocessed approximately 50 kilos of weapons-grade plutonium -- enough for as many as 10 nuclear bombs -- and this stockpile will soon be Mr. Kim's last remaining card. Were he to give it up he would find himself seriously weakened and, quite possibly, at the mercy of those who seek to bring down his regime. Recently, however, South Korea's foreign minister, Song Min-soon, has argued that the accord requires North Korea to ship the fissile material out of the country. 
 To break the impasse, we propose that China, North Korea's closest remaining ally, assume physical custody in North Korea of the fissile material. This would ensure that the North does not use it to make additional bombs, send it to another country for safekeeping or sell some of it to a terrorist organization for much-needed cash. 
 While the International Atomic Energy Agency could serve as this watchdog, the North is unlikely to trust an agency that it believes to be controlled by the United States. Also, the North has already demonstrated that it has no qualms about breaking agreements with the agency; in 2002, Mr. Kim expelled its inspectors just before restarting his nuclear program. 
 China, on the other hand, offers some significant advantages. Kim Jong-il may tussle with Beijing's leaders from time to time, but he knows they do not seek the collapse of his regime. And if the North fails to abide by its commitments, China could use its huge fuel and food subsidies to bring added pressure to bear, which is something the International Atomic Energy Agency could not do. At some point down the road -- after the North has become better integrated into the world community -- the fissile material could be shipped out of North Korea. 
 To be sure, allowing weapons-grade plutonium to remain in the country for any period of time is less than ideal. But no agreement that is practical will be ideal for all parties. Compromise is essential to the accord's success.
 The goal of a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula is closer today than it was a year ago. But there are still hurdles to clear. To ensure continued progress in ending the North's nuclear threat, it is essential to acknowledge the elephant in the room and think creatively about how to deal with the fissile material. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RICHARD BEARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); KOREAN WAR (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); MACAO (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007



146 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Special Fund Proposed For Hurricane Insurance

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
New York regulators are proposing that insurance companies set aside extra money to pay for damage in the event of a significant hurricane, seeking to ease, at least in the state, the soaring premiums faced by millions of Americans along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts. But insurers have expressed reservations. 
 Under the New York plan, insurers would for the first time be required to use money that now goes directly to profits to create contingency funds to pay for hurricane losses. Then, when a big storm hits, money would already be designated to pay for much of the damage. The financial shock would be eliminated or reduced, the regulators say, and there would be no justification for raising premiums sharply. 
 The state Senate's insurance committee is holding a hearing on coastal insurance problems at 10 a.m. today at the western campus of the Suffolk County Community College in Brentwood. 
 Consumer groups and insurance companies have long advocated creating special funds for significant hurricane damage. And the consumer advocates said New York's proposal could lead to the introduction of similar plans in other hurricane-prone states along the coast.
 ''Other states may look at this and say, 'Why don't we have this sort of requirement,''' said J. Robert Hunter, the director for insurance of the Consumer Federation of America. ''If every state had a reserve like this, they could actually work together so that the money could flow to wherever a hurricane struck. This would help stabilize prices and might even lower prices.''
 After Hurricane Katrina and other big storms, prices began rising sharply along the coasts from Texas to Massachusetts. To lower their chances of big payouts, the insurers have refused to renew coverage for hundreds of thousands of homeowners and have stopped selling new policies in the areas most threatened by storms. 
 Responding to appeals from insurers, members of Congress have introduced several bills that would provide for the federal government to pay for much of the damage from a destructive hurricane. Government backing, the insurers argue, would help make insurance more affordable and more widely available.
 The insurers have so far been unwilling to put money aside to pay for hurricane damages unless they were able to deduct it from federal taxes as a business expense. Most money set aside for claims receives the tax credit, but because so many variables are involved, claims related to hurricanes and other natural disasters do not. 
 Under the New York plan, which is to be presented to insurers as a draft of a new regulation in the next few days, the insurers would be required to set aside the portion of their annual premiums that is designated to cover hurricane damage. Regulators estimate that to be about $250 million. 
 New York has no ability to change federal tax law. So the regulation would require the insurers to set aside the money after they had paid taxes on it. They would receive a tax deduction after they paid for hurricane damage. But in the meantime, they could not use the money for other purposes. 
 In Long Island, as much as 25 percent of the annual premium is now designated to pay for hurricane damage, said Eric Dinallo, the superintendent of insurance in New York. If there are no hurricanes, which is usually the case in New York, the companies simply keep the hurricane portion of the premium as profit. With no hurricanes in the country last year, the insurers reported record profits. 
 Despite dire predictions, this year has also been quiet, and the insurers are headed for another year of high profits. The last significant storm to hit New York was Hurricane Gloria in 1985, at a cost of more than $780 million in today's dollars. But New York has nearly as much coastal property as Florida, and the insurers say that the recent increase in hurricane activity raises the potential for heavy losses. 
 As for why the insurers might be willing to accept the new regulation, Mr. Dinallo said that reducing financial shocks to the companies could make them more attractive to investors. But insurance experts said the industry is likely to fight the new regulation.
 ''No one wants to be at loggerheads over this,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the president and chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. ''But this becomes very difficult. The insurance department is basically asking business to spend hundreds of millions of dollars that they will not be able to record as an expense for perhaps many, many years.''
 Allstate and State Farm, the two largest home insurers in the state, were far from enthusiastic. ''We need to know more to determine if this is the right approach,'' said Krista Conte, a spokeswoman for Allstate. At State Farm, Jonathan Freed said, ''it's not clear how workable'' Mr. Dinallo's plan might be.
 But some insurance executives said they welcomed Mr. Dinallo's plan. At Travelers, for example, Jay S. Fishman, the chief executive, said the new regulation would not add significantly to his costs and was ''a great first step'' toward reducing volatility in insurance prices and perhaps making coverage more available.
 Mr. Dinallo said he hoped the new regulation would go into effect by early next year. But he said he was open to compromise. ''I believe you're going to see other states agreeing with this,'' he added. ''I hope this is the beginning of a national model.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1985, Hurricane Gloria did extensive damage to Long Island. The storm was the last significant hurricane to hit New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); HURRICANES (91%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); WEATHER (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); HOMEOWNERS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



147 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Stealthily, Stores Start Christmas In October

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
It's a subliminal Christmas. 
 Eager to expand the holiday shopping season without provoking consumers, retailers are experimenting with a novel approach: earlier-than-ever advertising that deliberately plays down the tinsel and holly.
 Shattering records for an early start, Wal-Mart is cutting prices on toys in mid-October, but the company is not calling it a holiday sale. L. L. Bean has started advertising free shipping -- but it is shying away from the H word. And Toys ''R'' Us is marketing a temporary store in Manhattan, but consumers have to study ads to find the name: Holiday Express.
 The furtive marketing campaigns are intended to jump-start what stores expect to be a listless buying season, one dragged down by economic jitters and large-scale toy recalls. 
 The National Retail Federation predicts that sales will rise 4 percent this holiday, to $474.5 billion -- the slowest growth rate in five years. Rosalind Wells, chief economist for the federation, a trade group, warned that ''retailers are in for a somewhat challenging holiday season.'' 
 Rather than waiting to see how the season unfolds, big retail chains are introducing advertisements in early October aimed at holiday shoppers, an unusual intrusion into Halloween shopping territory. 
 But the Christmas-in-October gambit requires finesse, lest stores confuse or annoy shoppers. Many consumers bemoan the ever-earlier start to the holiday shopping season, which traditionally commenced the day after Thanksgiving.
 So stores are sneaking up on Christmas. Despite balmy weather throughout much of the country, Sears (on Wednesday) and Montgomery Ward (on Thursday) have published their holiday shopping catalogs -- with the word ''holiday'' written in small type, like a footnote. A new ad for family portraits at J. C. Penney features a woman holding a small child, a blurry Christmas tree behind them. 
 Wal-Mart said it would not begin its formal holiday marketing campaign until the end of the month. But the company has already begun the kind of price cuts on toys that it typically employs closer to Christmas. (Wal-Mart is calling the price cuts a ''rollback,'' its term for a discount. But a news release from the company, not intended for consumers, describes them as ''an aggressive move to lead the market on holiday savings.'') 
 Nick Agarwal, a spokesman for Wal-Mart, said the company is ''not embarrassed at having rollbacks available now for shoppers. We know many like to plan ahead and spread the cost of Christmas.'' 
 An ad for Toys ''R'' Us's so-called pop-up store, open from now till February in downtown Manhattan, is stripped of traditional holiday trappings. There are no ribbons or sleds or Christmas tree ornaments. But the company mascot, Geoffrey the Giraffe, wears a small Santa hat. ''It's understated,'' said Kathleen Waugh, a spokeswoman for Toys ''R'' Us.
 Why begin marketing a holiday store in early October, seven weeks before the official start of the season and 12 weeks before Christmas?
 ''Everyone can use a little Christmas right now, after a summer of toy recalls,'' Ms. Waugh said. ''It's time to remember what toys are all about.'' 
 L. L. Bean wants customers to know it will offer free shipping but does not want to hit them over the head with a holiday theme. An ad running in print publications features a red backdrop and green ribbon but leaves out any explicit reference to Christmas.
 A spokeswoman for the retailer, Carolyn Beem, conceded that the ad is ''a little toned down.'' Is the chain worried about upsetting shoppers with too much holiday too early in the year?
 ''It's safe to say there is always anxiety,'' she said. The ad ''serves the marketing purpose. It gets people thinking that the holiday is coming.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Santa Claus in an ultralight aircraft featured in the Neiman Marcus Christmas catalog for $80,000. Neiman offered a preview last week of its Christmas items in Dallas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA MCWILLIAM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); HALLOWEEN (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



148 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Diet and Fat: A Severe Case Of Mistaken Consensus

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
In 1988, the surgeon general, C. Everett Koop, proclaimed ice cream to a be public-health menace right up there with cigarettes. Alluding to his office's famous 1964 report on the perils of smoking, Dr. Koop announced that the American diet was a problem of ''comparable'' magnitude, chiefly because of the high-fat foods that were causing coronary heart disease and other deadly ailments. 
 He introduced his report with these words: ''The depth of the science base underlying its findings is even more impressive than that for tobacco and health in 1964.''
 That was a ludicrous statement, as Gary Taubes demonstrates in his new book meticulously debunking diet myths, ''Good Calories, Bad Calories'' (Knopf, 2007). The notion that fatty foods shorten your life began as a hypothesis based on dubious assumptions and data; when scientists tried to confirm it they failed repeatedly. The evidence against Haagen-Dazs was nothing like the evidence against Marlboros. 
 It may seem bizarre that a surgeon general could go so wrong. After all, wasn't it his job to express the scientific consensus? But that was the problem. Dr. Koop was expressing the consensus. He, like the architects of the federal ''food pyramid'' telling Americans what to eat, went wrong by listening to everyone else. He was caught in what social scientists call a cascade.
 We like to think that people improve their judgment by putting their minds together, and sometimes they do. The studio audience at ''Who Wants to Be a Millionaire'' usually votes for the right answer. But suppose, instead of the audience members voting silently in unison, they voted out loud one after another. And suppose the first person gets it wrong. 
 If the second person isn't sure of the answer, he's liable to go along with the first person's guess. By then, even if the third person suspects another answer is right, she's more liable to go along just because she assumes the first two together know more than she does. Thus begins an ''informational cascade'' as one person after another assumes that the rest can't all be wrong. 
 Because of this effect, groups are surprisingly prone to reach mistaken conclusions even when most of the people started out knowing better, according to the economists Sushil Bikhchandani, David Hirshleifer and Ivo Welch. If, say, 60 percent of a group's members have been given information pointing them to the right answer (while the rest have information pointing to the wrong answer), there is still about a one-in-three chance that the group will cascade to a mistaken consensus.
 Cascades are especially common in medicine as doctors take their cues from others, leading them to overdiagnose some faddish ailments (called bandwagon diseases) and overprescribe certain treatments (like the tonsillectomies once popular for children). Unable to keep up with the volume of research, doctors look for guidance from an expert -- or at least someone who sounds confident. 
 In the case of fatty foods, that confident voice belonged to Ancel Keys, a prominent diet researcher a half-century ago (the K-rations in World War II were said to be named after him). He became convinced in the 1950s that Americans were suffering from a new epidemic of heart disease because they were eating more fat than their ancestors.
 There were two glaring problems with this theory, as Mr. Taubes, a correspondent for Science magazine, explains in his book. First, it wasn't clear that traditional diets were especially lean. Nineteenth-century Americans consumed huge amounts of meat; the percentage of fat in the diet of ancient hunter-gatherers, according to the best estimate today, was as high or higher than the ratio in the modern Western diet.
 Second, there wasn't really a new epidemic of heart disease. Yes, more cases were being reported, but not because people were in worse health. It was mainly because they were living longer and were more likely to see a doctor who diagnosed the symptoms. 
 To bolster his theory, Dr. Keys in 1953 compared diets and heart disease rates in the United States, Japan and four other countries. Sure enough, more fat correlated with more disease (America topped the list). But critics at the time noted that if Dr. Keys had analyzed all 22 countries for which data were available, he would not have found a correlation. (And, as Mr. Taubes notes, no one would have puzzled over the so-called French Paradox of foie-gras connoisseurs with healthy hearts.)
 The evidence that dietary fat correlates with heart disease ''does not stand up to critical examination,'' the American Heart Association concluded in 1957. But three years later the association changed position -- not because of new data, Mr. Taubes writes, but because Dr. Keys and an ally were on the committee issuing the new report. It asserted that ''the best scientific evidence of the time'' warranted a lower-fat diet for people at high risk of heart disease.
 The association's report was big news and put Dr. Keys, who died in 2004, on the cover of Time magazine. The magazine devoted four pages to the topic -- and just one paragraph noting that Dr. Keys's diet advice was ''still questioned by some researchers.'' That set the tone for decades of news media coverage. Journalists and their audiences were looking for clear guidance, not scientific ambiguity.
 After the fat-is-bad theory became popular wisdom, the cascade accelerated in the 1970s when a committee led by Senator George McGovern issued a report advising Americans to lower their risk of heart disease by eating less fat. ''McGovern's staff were virtually unaware of the existence of any scientific controversy,'' Mr. Taubes writes, and the committee's report was written by a nonscientist ''relying almost exclusively on a single Harvard nutritionist, Mark Hegsted.''
 That report impressed another nonscientist, Carol Tucker Foreman, an assistant agriculture secretary, who hired Dr. Hegsted to draw up a set of national dietary guidelines. The Department of Agriculture's advice against eating too much fat was issued in 1980 and would later be incorporated in its ''food pyramid.'' 
 Meanwhile, there still wasn't good evidence to warrant recommending a low-fat diet for all Americans, as the National Academy of Sciences noted in a report shortly after the U.S.D.A. guidelines were issued. But the report's authors were promptly excoriated on Capitol Hill and in the news media for denying a danger that had already been proclaimed by the American Heart Association, the McGovern committee and the U.S.D.A.
 The scientists, despite their impressive credentials, were accused of bias because some of them had done research financed by the food industry. And so the informational cascade morphed into what the economist Timur Kuran calls a reputational cascade, in which it becomes a career risk for dissidents to question the popular wisdom.
 With skeptical scientists ostracized, the public debate and research agenda became dominated by the fat-is-bad school. Later the National Institutes of Health would hold a ''consensus conference'' that concluded there was ''no doubt'' that low-fat diets ''will afford significant protection against coronary heart disease'' for every American over the age of 2. The American Cancer Society and the surgeon general recommended a low-fat diet to prevent cancer. 
 But when the theories were tested in clinical trials, the evidence kept turning up negative. As Mr. Taubes notes, the most rigorous meta-analysis of the clinical trials of low-fat diets, published in 2001 by the Cochrane Collaboration, concluded that they had no significant effect on mortality.
 Mr. Taubes argues that the low-fat recommendations, besides being unjustified, may well have harmed Americans by encouraging them to switch to carbohydrates, which he believes cause obesity and disease. He acknowledges that that hypothesis is unproved, and that the low-carb diet fad could turn out to be another mistaken cascade. The problem, he says, is that the low-carb hypothesis hasn't been seriously studied because it couldn't be reconciled with the low-fat dogma. 
 Mr. Taubes told me he especially admired the iconoclasm of Dr. Edward H. Ahrens Jr., a lipids researcher who spoke out against the McGovern committee's report. Mr. McGovern subsequently asked him at a hearing to reconcile his skepticism with a survey showing that the low-fat recommendations were endorsed by 92 percent of ''the world's leading doctors.'' 
 ''Senator McGovern, I recognize the disadvantage of being in the minority,'' Dr. Ahrens replied. Then he pointed out that most of the doctors in the survey were relying on secondhand knowledge because they didn't work in this field themselves.
 ''This is a matter,'' he continued, ''of such enormous social, economic and medical importance that it must be evaluated with our eyes completely open. Thus I would hate to see this issue settled by anything that smacks of a Gallup poll.'' Or a cascade.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY VIKTOR KOEN)(pg. F1)(pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (90%); OILS & FATS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SMOKING (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); HEART DISEASE (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



149 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Impact Report Clears Russian Oil Project

BYLINE: By SOPHIA KISHKOVSKY

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
An environmental impact report produced for potential lenders to the Sakhalin II oil and gas development in the Russian Far East gives overall approval to the project, with some reservations. 
 The report, to be formally released Tuesday, is vital to the $20 billion project because it allows a series of multibillion-dollar loans to be exercised.
 Sakhalin II has been tangled in controversy for years, and the Russian government has cited environmental issues as a reason to exert economic control. 
 In 2006, Royal Dutch Shell and two Japanese partners sold a controlling stake in the project to Gazprom, Russia's state-controlled natural gas monopoly, after persistent accusations by Russian officials that pipeline construction would harm salmon streams. Gazprom has not faced such problems during its involvement in the project.
 The wide-ranging report was produced by AEA Technology, an international consultant, for the potential lenders: the Export Credits Guarantee Department of Britain; the Japan Bank for International Cooperation; and the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
 The report covers subjects ranging from the impact on wetlands and whales to the effect on indigenous populations.
 It cites some shortcomings, like problems with erosion control, wetland crossings, construction in delicate bird-nesting zones and protection of the western gray whale. But the report praises the development for ''commitments to many specific areas of laudable best practice'' and underscores the benefits of the Sakhalin II for the island, which is near Japan and has long been known for its poverty.
 Because of its location, Sakhalin II is regarded as a future important source for the shipment of liquefied natural gas to Asia. 
 ''The project will bring economic prosperity to the island, improved infrastructure and other benefits such as new skills and training,'' the report said.
 Ian Craig, the chief executive of the Sakhalin Energy Investment Company, presented the report at a briefing in Moscow on Monday.
 The key for me in this report is that it notes the high level of compliance with the requirements in the area of health, safety, environment and social that was achieved.'' Mr. Craig said. ''It also lists a number of best practices in the Sakhalin II project.''
 Yuri Trutnev, Russia's natural resources minister, said at a news conference last week that he would travel to Sakhalin ''around November'' to assess the situation.
 Nongovernmental environmental organizations working in Russia have been critical of the course of Sakhalin II's development, highlighting the dangers to the region's whales and rivers and violations by contractors.
 In a telephone interview on Monday, Evgeny Shvarts, the director of conservation policy for the Moscow office of the World Wildlife Fund, stressed that many serious problems remain but noted improving lines of communication with the corporate and Russian government participants in the project.
 Mr. Shvarts said there had been a recent meeting in Moscow in which representatives from Sakhalin Energy, the government and, for the first time, Gazprom, were present. ''After meeting with Sakhalin Energy on a high level, we discussed this separately with Gazprom representatives on a high level and now we're expecting answers,'' he said. 
 Alex Turkeltaub, managing director of the Frontier Strategy Group, a political risk consultancy based in Washington, said in a telephone interview that he had seen the report and was not surprised by the findings. 
 ''It demonstrates that the Russian government will use environmental assessments for its own political purposes,'' Mr. Turkeltaub said. ''Companies that cooperate will receive positive assessments, and those that don't will have problems.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prigorodnoye, Russia, site of the $20 billion Sakhalin II oil and gas project. Critics say the hotly debated development would endanger whales and rivers and cause other problems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI KARPUKHIN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); BEST PRACTICES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); WETLANDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (78%); RIVERS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (73%); WILDLIFE (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); EROSION CONTROL (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (68%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (68%); EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); EROSION (54%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (91%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (71%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (69%); JAPAN BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION (69%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (91%); GAZP (RTS) (91%); RDSA (LSE) (71%); RDSA (AMS) (71%); RDS.B (NYSE) (71%); RDS.A (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (91%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (71%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (69%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



150 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: From the Depths of the Arctic, Gas to Heat Homes in the U.S.

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: HAMMERFEST, Norway 

 BODY:
For a quarter-century, energy executives were tantalized by vast quantities of natural gas in one of the world's least hospitable places -- 90 miles off Norway's northern coast, beneath the Arctic Ocean.
 Bitter winds and frequent snowstorms lash the region. The sun disappears for two months a year. No oil company knew how to operate in such a harsh environment.
 But Norway has finally solved the problem. The other day, on an island just offshore, a giant yellow flame illuminated the sky here. It was just a temporary flare for excess gas, but it signaled a new era in energy production.
 Across the bay from this small fishing town, where reindeer wander the streets, one of the world's most advanced natural gas plants is coming to life. 
 Within weeks, gas will start crossing the ocean in specially designed ships, feeding into the pipeline network for the American East Coast. Before Christmas, furnaces in Brooklyn and stoves in Washington will be burning the gas. It will be the first commercial energy production from waters north of the Arctic Circle.
 As global demand soars and prices rise, energy companies are going to the ends of the earth to find new supplies.
 In Kazakhstan, petroleum engineers are braving wild temperature swings in the shallow waters of the Caspian Sea to tap the biggest oil discovery of the last 30 years. They are drilling wells six miles deep in the Gulf of Mexico. And on the island of Sakhalin, off far eastern Russia, they have drilled horizontal wells through miles of rock to produce oil from a stretch of ocean notable for giant icebergs.
 But as the industry extends its reach, the quest is becoming more arduous. The cost of producing new oil and gas is rising fast, and companies are troubled by worsening delays. Drilling rigs are scarce. Engineers, geologists and petroleum specialists are in critically short supply.
 And the politics of oil and gas are getting trickier, with producing countries demanding a bigger share of the revenue and growing angry about project delays that postpone their payments.
 Industry executives say their ability to keep up with global demand is badly strained.
 ''We're facing bigger risks and bigger difficulties when we go into new frontier regions,'' said Odd A. Mosbergvik, a senior manager at the dominant Norwegian energy company, StatoilHydro. ''But this is why the oil industry is for big boys. It's a big gamble.''
 The industry's new reach is shifting the economics of energy extraction. According to a recent study, discovery and development costs, a key indicator for the industry, tripled from 1999 to 2006, to nearly $15 a barrel.
 Last year alone, companies spent $200 billion developing new energy projects worldwide, according to the study by the consulting firms John S. Herold Inc. and Harrison Lovegrove -- an amount larger than the economies of 147 countries.
 These higher costs mean that the industry needs higher energy prices to finance new projects. They are also constraining its ability to expand quickly. 
 ''There are no easy barrels left,'' said J. Robinson West, chairman of PFC Energy, an industry consulting firm in Washington. ''The only barrels are going to be the tough barrels.''
 There is plenty of oil and gas still in the ground, energy executives say. But global consumption is rising so fast that they must keep looking for new sources. Despite worldwide concern over global warming and the role of fossil fuels in causing it, United States government specialists project that global oil and gas demand will increase by some 50 percent in the next 25 years.
 At the same time, the big discoveries of the last three decades, like those in the North Sea and on the North Slope of Alaska, are drying up. This is leading oil companies to remote places like Hammerfest.
 The United States will need to import about a fifth of the natural gas it uses by 2030, mostly in a liquefied form shipped across the seas in tankers. Such imports are expected to swell more than sixfold from 2005 to 2030, according to the Energy Information Administration. And consumption is rising fast in the economically booming Asian countries.
 Producing oil and gas in polar regions is not entirely new, of course. Russian engineers have been doing it in Siberia for decades, with mixed results, and Alaska's North Slope was long the most important United States oil field.
 But those fields are on land. The Norwegian field is the first Arctic project to tap oil and gas reserves far offshore, in water more than 1,000 feet deep, where traditional exploration methods would be too costly. 
 The gas field, 340 miles north of the Arctic Circle beneath a stretch of ocean more commonly known as the Barents Sea, is called Snow White -- Snohvit in Norwegian, where energy projects are named after mythical characters. Though the field was discovered in 1981, oil executives long considered Snohvit out of reach, because of the Barents Sea's shifting ice packs, brutal waves and extreme cold.
 ''This is considered an unfriendly place, even by Norwegian standards,'' Mr. Mosbergvik said. 
 Another big problem the engineers faced here was that Snohvit is situated hundreds of miles from Norway's traditional pipeline network.
 Over the years, Statoil considered many ways to get at the gas, including huge offshore platforms armored against the waves, but discarded them as too costly. Building a vast undersea pipeline that would take the gas south along the country's stretched coastline was also out of the question.
 Statoil engineers eventually came up with an ingenious solution. They installed production equipment directly on the seafloor, with no rigs breaking the surface. The wellheads are linked by 90 miles of pipe to a small island just off Hammerfest. Anti-freeze is injected into the pipes to prevent the natural gas from clogging on its way to shore. 
 On the island, Melkoya, Statoil built a processing facility to separate the brew of natural gas, oil, water and carbon dioxide that flows out of the field. The natural gas is cooled to a temperature of 260 degrees below zero, shrinking its volume to one-six hundredth and turning it into a liquid that can be shipped in tankers.
 Construction of the liquefaction plant over the last several years involved 22,000 workers, one of the largest industrial projects in Europe, and cost nearly $10 billion, up from $6 billion when the project was begun in 2002. 
 ''We did not have the experience to operate in an environment like this,'' Mr. Mosbergvik acknowledged. 
 The field is so large that it could eventually supply nearly 10 percent of the demand for natural gas demand in eastern states of the United States. Dominion, an energy company, has expanded a gas import terminal at Cove Point, Md., to accommodate the Arctic gas, according to Donald R. Raikes, its vice president for marketing and customer services. 
 By the end of October, Statoil's gas will begin flowing through a network of pipes to a stretch of the country from Maryland to Massachusetts, the largest consumer market in the United States, with some 16 million residential customers and 5 million industrial clients. 
 With the plant nearly ready, Statoil maintains that the Barents Sea could turn into a major oil and gas region in coming decades. Indeed, the world's fast-rising use of fossil fuels, by contributing to global warming, could eventually make the Arctic more accessible for oil and gas production.
 In Hammerfest,residents have welcomed Statoil's project, hoping it will offset declines in fishing. Modern buildings are rising to house the influx of gas workers. New taxes from the gas plant are helping finance a cultural center.
 Statoil hopes to double its capacity on Melkoya by 2015. That will require finding new gas fields in the Barents Sea.
 Hans M. Gjennestad, strategy manager at Statoil for the Barents region, said, ''We believe this resource potential may contribute significantly to the long-term security of supplies of Europe and the United States.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A natural gas cargo ship passing Melkoya Island, across the bay from Hammerfest, Norway. Gas from this region is to start crossing the ocean, feeding into pipelines for America's East Coast.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEIR JENSSEN) CHARTS: Farther Afield: Energy companies are tapping energy reserves in more remote places as part of their effort to keep up with rising demand.
Sakhalin Island, Russia: A drilling rig has been built on land that extends a pipeline seven miles out from shore to extract oil from under icy waters that are inhospitable to floating platforms.
Gulf of Mexico: Oil companies are pioneering many of the ultra-deep water drilling techniques here that allow them to tap energy reserves once thought to be out of reach. Some gas reserves are beneath 10,000 feet of water and 20,000 feet below the sea floor.
Hammerfest, Norway: The first plant by energy companies to tap abundant natural gas reserves in the Arctic region. Chart shows map of world.
 A Need for Gas: Natural gas demand in the United States is expected to grow in the next two decades. During that time, pipeline imports from Canada and Mexico are expected to decline, while imports of liquefied natural gas rise. (Source: Energy Information Administration)Chart shows line graph for natural gas and pipeline. (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); WEATHER (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%)

COMPANY: JOHN S HEROLD INC (60%); STATOIL ASA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: STO (NYSE) (58%); STL (OSL) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (60%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); ARCTIC OCEAN (92%); CASPIAN SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (94%); NORWAY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



151 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Distribution of Nets Splits Malaria Fighters

BYLINE: By REUBEN KYAMA and DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.; Reuben Kyama reported from Maendeleo, Kenya, and Donald G. McNeil Jr. from New York.

DATELINE: MAENDELEO, Kenya 

 BODY:
Veronica Njeri, 45, says she has ''never healed'' since losing two of her six children to malaria 20 years ago, and she still feels vulnerable. While her oldest are adults or teenagers, and have presumably built up immunity to the disease, she worries about her youngest, Anthony, who is 4.
 But since hundreds of free mosquito nets came to Maendeleo, her rice-farming village in west-central Kenya, ''malaria epidemics have become rare,'' she said happily, even though the village sits amid stagnant paddies where swarms of mosquitoes breed.
 Villages like Maendeleo are at the center of a debate that has split malaria fighters: how to distribute mosquito nets. 
 Recently, Dr. Arata Kochi, the blunt new director of the World Health Organization's malaria program, declared that as far as he was concerned, ''the debate is at an end.'' Virtually the only way to get the nets to poor people, he said, is to hand out millions free.
 In doing so, Dr. Kochi turned his back on an alternative long favored by the Clinton and Bush administrations -- distribution by so-called social marketing, in which mosquito nets are sold through local shops at low, subsidized prices -- $1 or so for an insecticide-impregnated net that costs $5 to $7 from the maker -- with donors underwriting the losses and paying consultants to come up with brand names and advertise the nets.
 ''The time for social marketing of bed nets in a big way is over,'' Dr. Kochi said in an interview. ''It can become a supplemental strategy for urban areas and middle-income countries.''
 Two years ago, social marketing was at the heart of a scandal when it was revealed that the United States Agency for International Development, or USAid, which distributes foreign aid, was spending 95 percent of its malaria budget on consultants and 5 percent on goods like nets, drugs and insecticide. Under attack from several senators championing the fight against malaria, the agency later announced that it would spend at least half its budget on goods.
 Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, called the new W.H.O. policy ''a great move,'' adding, ''We knew social marketing doesn't work.'' 
 In practice, nothing much had been working. In 2000, a world health conference in Abuja, Nigeria, set a goal: by 2005, 60 percent of African children would be sleeping under nets. By 2005, only 3 percent were.
 The theory behind social marketing, which is also used to distribute condoms and oral rehydration salts, is that the poor see more value in brand-name goods they pay for than handouts they get free, and that the trade creates small entrepreneurs.
 The usual comparison made is to Coca-Cola, which reaches Africa's remotest corners. But Dr. Kochi rejected that model, saying, ''I'm not sure whether the poorest of the poor actually drink Coca-Cola.''
 He argues that the insecticide-filled nets, when used by 80 percent or more of a village, create a barrier that kills or drives off mosquitoes, protecting everyone in the area, including those without nets. Individual nets tended to just drive mosquitoes next door, to bite someone else. As such, he said, nets ought to be treated as a public good, like the measles or polio vaccines, which the world does not charge the poor for. 
 Free net distributions are usually done in a week or two, by armies of workers who are paid a few dollars a day by the Red Cross or health ministry to cover a country or other large region. Distributions have been tried in Sierra Leone, Niger, Togo and elsewhere, sometimes in conjunction with measles shots or deworming drugs. 
 The new model is beginning to prevail but has not completely swept the field. Some donors still use some social marketing. Unicef, the world's largest buyer of nets, distributed 25 million last year, of which 92 percent were given away, said its medical director, Dr. Peter Salama. The main American program, the President's Malaria Initiative, plans to hand out more than 15 million nets by 2008, of which about 75 percent will be free, said its coordinator, Rear Adm. Tim Ziemer.
 In June, Admiral Ziemer and the first lady, Laura Bush, who has made malaria her crusade, helped hand out 500,000 free nets in Mozambique and Zambia.
 Social marketing may be useful during gaps between mass distributions, said Trent Ruebush, a malaria expert at the initiative and USAid. The best insecticide-filled nets last three to five years, but babies will be born in that time, or new families will move into an area. ''We feel it is one of various effective ways to go,'' Dr. Ruebush said.
 Experiences in Kenya played a large part in persuading the W.H.O. to change its policy, said Dr. Peter Olumese, a medical officer in the agency's malaria program.
 Maendeleo, a village of about 140 mud-walled shacks with tin roofs, was part of a five-year study of 40 health districts. When it started in 2002, the only nets were those for sale in small shops, Dr. Olumese said, and only about 7 percent of people had them.
 Social marketing was introduced by Population Services International, a large aid contractor. That increased coverage to about 21 percent by early 2006.
 Then, late last year, the health ministry got a big grant from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria that allowed it to hand out 3.4 million free nets in two weeks. Coverage rose to 67 percent, and distribution became more equitable. Under social marketing, Dr. Olumese said, the ''richest of the poor'' had 38 percent coverage, while the ''poorest of the poor'' -- like Maendeleo's rice farmers -- had only 15 percent. After the handouts, they were about equal.
 Deaths of children dropped 44 percent.
 It also turned out to be cheaper, Dr. Olumese said. With consultant fees, transportation, advertising and shipping, social marketing added about $10 to the cost of each net beyond the $5 to $7 that Danish or Japanese makers charged. But even with payments to volunteers, the added cost of free distribution was only about $1.25 per net.
 ''There has been a paradigm shift,'' Dr. Olumese said. ''We need to use the momentum we have right now.''
 Between the giveaways, he said, nets should be handed out free to all pregnant women and mothers who visit health clinics. Some women struggle to afford even the 10 cents per child cost of identity cards that let them visit clinics. ''Asking a mother to make a decision to feed her child or buy a net is not fair,'' he said.
 In Maendeleo, a village elder, Benson Gacu, confirmed that price was a major impediment. ''Our people are poor, and very few could afford to buy a mosquito net even for 50 shillings,'' or about 75 cents, he said. ''We are happy that the nets are free.''
 Francis Mureithi, a local shopkeeper, said he still had some 50-shilling nets for sale because the government had given free ones only to families with children under 5.
 But, Mr. Mureithi noted, sales of malaria pills were way down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WET LANDS: Kenyan rice fields are breeding sites for mosquitoes.(pg. F1)
 A KILLER: Veronica Njeri, top, lost two children to malaria. Above, a health center sign in Mwea, Kenya, says malaria kills 36,000 children under 5 every year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVELYN HOCKSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (92%); CHILDREN (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); INSECTICIDES (89%); BUDGETS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: TOM COBURN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENYA (94%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



152 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Tranquil Session Before Earnings Data

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street finished a quiet session mostly lower yesterday as investors cashed in some gains from last week's rally and awaited quarterly corporate earnings reports.
 The aluminum producer Alcoa, one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones industrial average, starts the earnings season today. 
 Earnings are expected to reflect the difficulty some companies, particularly in the financial and housing sectors, have faced because of upheaval in the credit markets amid overly leveraged debt and defaults in subprime mortgages. The reports will also give insight into the fourth quarter, which market participants predict will bring more robust growth.
 ''There's room for a rally if third-quarter earnings come in stronger than expected, but they do want to see that the fourth quarter is going to be strong as well,'' said Ryan Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research.
 The trucking company Ryder System contributed to Wall Street's wariness yesterday when it lowered its third-quarter and full-year forecasts on weakness in its fleet management business. Ryder fell $3.33, or 6.8 percent, to $45.92. The Dow fell 22.28, or 0.16 percent, to 14,043.73.
 Broader stock indexes were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.01, or 0.32 percent, to 1,552.58, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 7.05, or 0.25 percent, to 2,787.37. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 4.74, or 0.56 percent, to 840.14.
 The Treasury bond market was closed for the Columbus Day holiday.
 The market is also waiting for today's release of minutes from the Federal Reserve's Sept. 18 meeting, when policy makers lowered interest rates by a half-point. Wall Street is hoping for hints of more rate cuts, which could further loosen the credit markets and fuel spending.
 The tech-heavy Nasdaq got a boost from Google, which surpassed $600 for the first time after upbeat projections about third-quarter earnings. The company's shares rose $15.57, or 2.6 percent, to $609.62.
 The Nasdaq was also lifted by Business Objects, a French company with American-traded shares that rose $7.56, or 15 percent, to $57.83. The German software company SAP said late Sunday it would pay $6.79 billion for Business Objects. SAP fell $2.87, or 4.9 percent, to $56.36.
 Yesterday, the diversified conglomerate Textron bid $1.1 billion for United Industrial. Textron fell $1.37, or 2.1 percent, to $64.01, and United Industrial rose $4.77, or 6.3 percent, to $80.39.
 ''We find it encouraging that there were two major buyouts this morning,'' Mr. Detrick said. ''It shows that the credit markets are firming up and companies are coming back into play.'' 
 Many analysts predict third-quarter percentage growth to be in the low-to-mid single digits, but the S.& P. forecasts a modest decline in total earnings per share for S.& P. 500 companies. S.& P., along with many other market watchers, anticipates double-digit percentage growth in the fourth quarter.
 Light crude fell $2.20, to $79.02 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Falling oil prices can be taken positively and negatively by the stock market: they tend to encourage consumer spending, but they dampen energy company profits.

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); BONDS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); FLEET MANAGEMENT (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (56%); TRUCKING (53%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: SAP AG (80%); ALCOA INC (58%); RYDER SYSTEM INC (56%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: SAP (NYSE) (80%); SAP (FRA) (80%); SAP (BIT) (80%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); R (NYSE) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (80%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (80%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (80%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (80%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



153 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Some New and Better Information On How to Make an Ad Work

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE venerable Starch service, which measures the effectiveness of print advertising, is undergoing a significant makeover of its methods in another sign of the growing importance of accountability to advertisers.
 Starch -- formally known as GfK Starch Communications -- plans to introduce today what it calls the eStarch Ad Readership service, which uses new techniques to help determine how advertisements in magazines and newspapers affect the purchase behavior of consumers.
 Starch has been surveying advertising readership for more than 80 years, interviewing consumers in person. The new service will also report responses gathered online from readers of magazines and newspapers in which the ads appear.
 Among the types of information the service will now report to advertisers are whether readers of an ad recommend a product or brand to others; whether attitudes toward a brand are changed by an ad; what actions, if any, readers take as a result of seeing an ad; and how much (or little) readers of an ad are ''favorably disposed'' toward the advertiser's brand. 
 The changes GfK Starch is making are indicative of how marketers are pressing companies that provide ratings and survey data -- among them Arbitron, Nielsen and Taylor Nelson Sofres -- to deliver information that is more relevant and predictive about consumer attitudes and habits.
 The purpose of those efforts is to sharpen the ability to determine the return on investment for ad spending, as the cost of advertising climbs and it becomes easier for consumers to avoid ads.
 The media choices that face marketers ''can be almost bewildering,'' said Chris Gaebler, a GfK Starch client who is the vice president for marketing at Sony Electronics in San Diego, part of the Sony Corporation of America.
 ''Print is very important to us still, because print has the ability to connect emotionally with people,'' Mr. Gaebler said, ''if you can get them to stick on a page.''
 Data about readers of ads ''helps guide our thinking to make our campaigns get better in a measurable way,'' he added, which can ''give the chief marketing officer a seat at the table with the chief financial officer to talk about how to sell more product.'' 
 One financial benefit of improving the effectiveness of print ads, Mr. Gaebler said, is that ''you could advertise less if consumers are responding more to your brand'' in the ads that are already running.
 Media companies that sell advertising space in magazines and newspapers may not embrace the idea of marketers buying fewer ads. But they would rather sell fewer ads than none at all, as marketers turn instead to newer media like the Internet. The online alternatives promote themselves as more measurable and therefore more effective in proving return on investment.
 ''There's a tremendous need for more research on how advertising works, whether it's print, online or cross-platform,'' said Caryn Klein, vice president for research and insights at Time Inc. in New York, a unit of Time Warner.
 Not only are advertisers seeking better ways to measure return on investment, she added, they also want to know more about their ''return on objectives,'' which can range from ''moving more product'' to ''moving the needle on general awareness'' to ''changing a perception'' about a brand image.
 GfK Starch ''has made great strides in the past few years in improving its services,'' Ms. Klein said, adding that she expected ''greater accountability with some of the new measures'' that are part of the eStarch service as well as ''deeper insight into how a reader engages -- and becomes involved with -- advertising.''
 GfK Starch, part of the GfK Custom Research North America division of the GfK Group, has been working on changes in its surveys for six years. Tests of eStarch, using publications like Reader's Digest magazine, took place during the past few months.
 ''Most mainstream publications do an excellent job of delivering qualified readers'' for advertisers, said Philip W. Sawyer, senior vice president at GfK Starch in Harrison, N.Y., ''and most media buyers do a very good job of selecting the right magazines for their clients.''
 ''The failure of an ad to deliver the goods is most often -- though not by any means always -- due to a failure of the creative to gain attention, to enhance the brand and to answer the reader's most pressing question, 'What's in it for me?''' Mr. Sawyer said.
 The new survey methods are an attempt ''to place the emphasis back on the creative'' aspects of print ads, he added, ''where we feel it belongs.''
 Since the rise of online advertising, there has been more of a focus on the ability of the print media to engage readers in general, Mr. Sawyer said, than on the ability of a print ad ''to engage the individual'' reader.
 Adding metrics to the GfK Starch surveys that ask about engagement and involvement should help ''redress that imbalance,'' he added.
 In other words, in contrast to what the media theorist Marshall McLuhan said, the medium is not the message; the message is the message.
 One finding from the tests of the new eStarch service showed that ''if you love a brand, you're more likely to read an ad'' for that brand, Mr. Sawyer said.
 So ads aimed at consumers who may lack that ardor ought to be ''more persuasive, offering more reasons to buy,'' he added, rather than making the types of emotional pitches that would appeal to the brand's existing customers.
 Mr. Gaebler of Sony Electronics described that result of the new research as particularly valuable.
 ''The insight from Starch is to focus on the ones who love a brand first,'' Mr. Gaebler said, which, for example, would mean ''reinforcing with Sony fans that their next LCD TV should, of course, be a Bravia.''
 After that, ''there's an interesting opportunity to steal share from your competitors,'' he added, ''if you can identify an audience who is open to a competing brand'' and then aim the right types of ads at them.
 Another finding, Mr. Sawyer said, is that word of mouth -- that is, talking about a brand or product with the people you know -- can be ''the definable proof of engagement with an ad.''
 That could be significant because many marketers are seeking to stoke ''buzz'' about their brands by advertising online rather than in the traditional media like print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (91%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); ADVERTISING COPY TESTING (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (64%)

COMPANY: TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (55%); SONY ELECTRONICS INC (53%); SONY CORP OF AMERICA (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



154 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: The Family Empire That Built Lefrak City Is Developing a Global Vision

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Samuel J. LeFrak, the voluble patriarch of New York's most prolific real estate family, often declared, ''We serve the mass, not the class,'' during the five decades he presided over an empire of apartments in sturdy brick buildings from Queens to Manhattan, office towers on both sides of the Hudson River, and oil wells in Louisiana.
 Mr. LeFrak died in 2003, and now, as the fourth generation of LeFraks prepares to take the reins of a multibillion-dollar empire that comprises more residential and commercial property than can be found in most medium-size cities, the family is striking out in a dramatically new direction to serve, well, the class, not the mass.
 Mr. LeFrak's son, Richard, 62, has for the first time in family history reached beyond the New York area to buy office buildings in the Golden Triangle area of Beverly Hills, Calif., and a development site on Hollywood Boulevard for a luxury high-rise apartment building. The LeFrak Organization is also actively hunting for a big development site in London. 
 Known for boxy, unremarkable buildings, the LeFraks are now using brand-name architects like Arquitectonica to design stylish towers. They also sold 2,000 of their older working-class apartments in Brooklyn and Queens earlier this year for $250 million, and more are headed for the auction block.
 Richard and his two sons, Harrison and Jamie, have moved the family's longtime headquarters from the sprawling Lefrak City complex in Queens to 57th Street in Manhattan, belatedly following a well-worn path beaten by other members of the city's real estate aristocracy whose roots are in the more humble outer boroughs.
 ''We have a huge amount of assets in this city,'' Richard LeFrak said during an interview in his blond-wood offices, where the walls are lined with images of the family's buildings and paintings of Sam LeFrak. ''It's the best market in the country. But we need diversification. I think L.A. has a lot of pluses.''
 Richard LeFrak, a genial, straightforward and even-keeled tycoon, displays none of the noisy flamboyance of his father, but all of the family's work ethic and aversion to high-risk financing. There is little or no debt on the family's holdings: 22 million square feet of residential property, the equivalent of about 25,000 apartments, and 12 million square feet of office space. When the LeFraks build, as they are doing at their 600-acre Newport complex on the waterfront in Jersey City, they do so without any loans. 
 The LeFraks have an increasingly rare knowledge of every aspect of the real estate business, from buying steel and building foundations to marketing. They also have a reputation for hard bargaining and a knack for building at a lower cost than anyone else. And unlike the modern real estate moguls of New York who buy and sell buildings as if they were pork bellies or some other commodity, the LeFraks generally ''build and hold.'' That is, until now.
 ''They're in a league of their own in terms of owning assets,'' said Tom Elghanayan, a principal in another family-owned real estate empire, Rockrose Development. ''Now they're upgrading. It's sort of against their religion to do it. It's probably his kids pushing him to do that.''
 Many of New York's best-known real estate families got their start building apartment houses for working- and middle-class New Yorkers in the outer boroughs, like the Roses and Rudins, whose roots go back to the Bronx. Fred Trump created a residential empire in Brooklyn and Queens before his son, Donald, made the leap to Midtown in the early 1980s to build glass and brass towers.
 ''Every real estate family that made its money in Brooklyn, Queens or the Bronx eventually has children and grandchildren who want to make their mark in Manhattan or some other glamour location,'' said Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban planning at New York University. ''But for most New Yorkers of a certain generation, LeFrak will always mean Lefrak City, no matter what they do in Hollywood.''
 Richard LeFrak's two sons are already deeply embedded in the family business and, according to real estate executives who know them, eager to take on new projects. Harrison, 35, handles the financial aspects of the business. His nickname is the Brain, a reference to the fact that he attended Harvard Law School and Columbia Business School simultaneously, shuttling four times a week between Cambridge, Mass., and New York. (He earned degrees from both.)
 Jamie, 34, is an engineer who graduated from Princeton and M.I.T. He has been involved on the residential side of the business, including the luxury Shore Club buildings at Newport, and the acquisition of the properties around Los Angeles.
 ''We're going to continue to build an awful lot of buildings,'' Jamie said. ''We'd like to have more assets in London and Los Angeles. We'll have a little more of a global perspective. But we're not just looking for the Tiffany-brand customer.''
 The LeFrak empire was founded by Harry Lefrak, a glazier who moved to New York in the early 1900s and did customized glasswork for Louis Comfort Tiffany. Harry Lefrak, who chose to Americanize his name by using a lowercase ''f,'' made enough money to buy a 120-acre farm in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. He later split off 10 acres on DeKalb Avenue to build small houses. Over time, he started building walk-up apartment buildings.
 His son, Sam, took over the family business in 1948, after studying engineering at the University of Maryland. Courting publicity, Sam took a small company into the big leagues, buying some swampy land in Queens from the Astors, and transforming it in 1959 into Lefrak City, a sprawling complex of 20 18-story towers, comprising 5,000 apartments and 15,000 residents, as well as two million square feet of retail space. 
 Richard spent a lot of time there, including two summers counting ''whether we were getting shorted on the rebar,'' the steel rods inserted into concrete to provide additional strength. ''Father-son time meant either going to construction sites or the office,'' he said.
 From then on, Sam LeFrak did big things, whether it was building the 1,800-unit Gateway complex in Battery Park City, assembling a stable of 55 horses, moving into oil and gas exploration, or buying decrepit railyards in Jersey City in the late 1970s and creating Newport, which he once described as the largest construction job ''since the pyramids.''
 His oversize business card was embossed with honorary degrees and knighthoods. Although Sam consistently denied craving acceptance by the Manhattan elite, he donated $10 million to the Guggenheim Museum in return for having his name placed on its famous Fifth Avenue building. He also restored the capital ''F'' in his last name to emphasize his French heritage.
 He could rail loudly at rivals, politicians and rent control.
 Richard, who became president of the LeFrak Organization in 1975 but was often overshadowed by his father's larger-than-life persona, initially said he had no desire to ''comment on who came before me.'' But he acknowledged that his father, whom he described as a visionary, could be blustery and ''a master of the inappropriate comment.''
 ''He was fun like that,'' Richard said. ''He could be provoked into saying almost anything. He was a character. He talked a lot, but unlike most people, he did a lot too.''
 Although he has sold some of the working- and middle-class apartment buildings in Queens and Brooklyn that made his father famous, Richard said that he would never sell Lefrak City, where he is planning a $50 million capital improvement program.
 Mr. LeFrak said his buildings in Brooklyn and Queens account for about only 15 percent of the family's income today, while commercial properties generate almost half. He said he and his sons now want to balance their portfolio with acquisitions in Los Angeles and London, major cities with growing populations and thriving economies with diverse industry.
 ''He is changing course, and I think it's very much for the better,'' Donald J. Trump said of Mr. LeFrak, who often stays at Mr. Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach, Fla. 
 ''I used to say, 'How did Sam produce such a gem?''' Mr. Trump said of Richard. ''That's not a knock on Sam, who was a rough-and-tough guy inside and out. Richard's a very strong guy, but he doesn't show it the way Sam did.''
 A friend of Richard's, Mr. Trump did not always get along with Sam, who referred to Mr. Trump as ''Mr. Glitz and Ritz.''
 Richard has a different view of Mr. Trump. ''He's the smartest marketing guy I ever met,'' he said. ''He's a showman. It isn't what I do.'' 
 Mr. LeFrak's friends describe him as smart and well liked, noting that he is the chairman and sole member of the membership committee at the Atlantic Golf Club in Bridgehampton, where he is known as Mr. Golf.
 ''It's a job nobody wants,'' Mr. LeFrak explained. ''The reason I have that nickname is because I rarely finish a round.''
 Like his father and his sons, Mr. LeFrak said his most satisfaction comes from developing buildings and complexes like Newport from the ground up.
 ''The capacity to make something from nothing -- that's the sex,'' Mr. LeFrak said. ''The other stuff is kissing.''
 Howard Milstein, the scion of another real estate family now heavily involved in banking, said the LeFraks were among the last of New York's real estate aristocracy.
 ''One thing New York City needs to do is make sure the LeFraks remain interested in New York City,'' he said. ''They're not hit-and-run players. They have all the strength to weather any adversity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PAINTING (76%); INTERVIEWS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



155 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Film Drop-Off Sites Fading Fast As Digital Cameras Dominate

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER

 BODY:
Fresh from a family vacation in California, Rick Wallerstein went to the Stop & Shop supermarket in Berkeley Heights, N.J., last month to drop off a roll of film, as he has done for about two decades. 
 But a sign on the familiar drop-box next to the juice aisle informed him that because of the advent of digital photography, film would no longer be accepted at the store. ''The sign said something like, 'Thanks for your past patronage and good luck,''' Mr. Wallerstein said.
 When he returned to the store 10 days later, both the box and the sign were gone. ''It's like it never even existed,'' he said. ''As if it had all been a dream.'' 
 Mr. Wallerstein had stumbled upon a trend that materialized not gradually, as many trends do, but instantly -- like, well, an image on a digital camera.
 ''With the prevalence of digital cameras, to continue to do film processing where demand has continued to decline just wasn't feasible,'' said Robert Keane, a spokesman for Stop & Shop, which discontinued film processing services at all 300 of its stores throughout the Northeast on Sept. 15.
 Stop & Shop, operated by Royal Ahold, is hardly the first and it will definitely not be the last to abandon film processing. 
 ''Over the past few years it's gotten increasingly difficult to find next-day service for film,'' said Gary Pageau, publisher of PMA Magazine, a photo industry trade publication.
 Some 35,000 locations in the United States still develop film, mostly drugstores, supermarkets and discount retail stores, as well as photo specialty stores. ''But you're not going to get the same level of service, where you'd drop off a roll of film at 2 p.m. and have it back the next day,'' he said.
 Mr. Pageau said he was not surprised to hear that Stop & Shop had stopped offering its film processing service. ''They probably weren't even doing enough business to warrant the five square feet of space the drop-off box was occupying,'' he said.
 The rate of decline is apparent from film sales -- since only people who buy film need to have it developed. Over the last four years, the sale of film has been dropping at a rate of 25 to 30 percent each year. In 2006, 204 million rolls were sold, a quarter of the 800 million sold at the peak in 1999. ''It's pretty alarming,'' said Bing Liem, senior vice president of sales for the imaging division of Fujifilm USA.
 Sales of single-use cameras are declining, too, but more slowly than film, said Mr. Pageau. ''You'll still get people using one-time-use cameras in places like amusement parks where people don't want to damage their digital camera,'' he said. Mr. Pageau said that about 6 percent of households in the United States used single-use cameras exclusively.
 Still, Mr. Pageau said, film developing is becoming a niche service, thanks to digital cameras. ''It's all about the replacement cycles of the technology,'' he said. ''Most reloadable films are 35 millimeter, and there hasn't been a significant new 35-millimeter camera introduced in two or more years.'' 
 ''The photo finishing ecosystem has fragmented,'' said Mr. Liem. It used to be a matter of dropping off a roll and choosing between one-hour and overnight processing, matte and glossy, 4x6 and 5x7. ''Now you can bring your media card in and go to a kiosk and have it printed in a second. Or you can have it printed at a one-hour photo lab. Or you can upload the image to a wholesale facility on the Internet and have it delivered to a retail store.''
 Mr. Liem said he, too, was not surprised to hear of Stop & Shop's decision to stop processing film. ''We knew retailers were most likely going to do that, because they can no longer do just two things. They have to do 10 things now.''
 And although retail stores with large film processing departments, like Wal-Mart and Walgreens, still do the traditional film processing, the new emphasis on digital processing is pronounced.
 Walgreens said its digital photofinishing sales increased 58 percent in 2006, although the company would not disclose actual sales figures. ''Digital is absolutely the fastest growing part of our photo finishing department,'' said Carol Hively, a Walgreens spokeswoman. In addition to film developing, Walgreens has self-service kiosks for printing from digital camera memory cards in all of its nearly 6,000 stores.
 The Eastman Kodak Company's film business has plummeted, and the company has spent the last few years making a transition to digital technology.
 There is no dearth of images. In the heyday of film, said Mr. Liem, some 25 billion images were not just captured but printed as well. By 2009, as the use of digital cameras continues to grow, some 135 billion images will be captured, but far fewer printed. Instead, those images tend to stay on people's computers in electronic shoeboxes. The challenge, say companies like Kodak and Fujifilm, is getting people to print those images out.
 Kodak is aiming at third world economies where home computers are less common, to extend the life of film. It is selling low-cost film cameras throughout Asia, said Christopher Veronda, a spokesman for Kodak. ''We're seeding places with large populations and limited incomes, trying to take picture taking to those markets,'' he said. In India last month, Kodak had a record sales month. 
 In the United States, when digital camera owners do print out their digital images, they are increasingly doing so in stores rather than on home printers, according to the Photo Marketing Association. Instead of silver halide photo processing equipment, stores are now installing kiosks made by companies like Kodak, Fujifilm and Hewlett-Packard. Among them, those companies have sold more than 100,000 photo kiosks.
 As Fujifilm has seen a decline in sales of its analog-based minilabs, it has seen a corresponding rise in sales of kiosks. Some of those kiosks are free-standing, and others are connected to an in-store minilab.
 As for Mr. Wallerstein and his roll of film, he let it languish at home for a couple of weeks, and finally took it to Wal-Mart. He had to go there anyway.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A former film processing business sits empty in Berkeley, Calif. Sales of film have plunged the last four years, as much as 30 percent a year, sharply cutting into demand for processing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pgs. C1 & 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL CAMERAS (92%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (89%); RETAILERS (78%); CAMERA & PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES STORES (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (71%)

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (91%); STOP & SHOP SUPERMARKET CO (58%); FUJIFILM USA INC (50%)

TICKER: AHOE (FRA) (91%); AH (BIT) (91%); AH (AMS) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (91%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (91%); NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3695 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



156 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: High-Stakes Flimflam

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
It's time to rein in the test zealots who have gotten such a stranglehold on the public schools in the U.S.
 Politicians and others have promoted high-stakes testing as a panacea that would bring accountability to teaching and substantially boost the classroom performance of students.
 ''Measuring,'' said President Bush, in a discussion of his No Child Left Behind law, ''is the gateway to success.'' 
 Not only has high-stakes testing largely failed to magically swing open the gates to successful learning, it is questionable in many cases whether the tests themselves are anything more than a shell game.
 Daniel Koretz, a professor at Harvard's Graduate School of Education, told me in a recent interview that it's important to ask ''whether you can trust improvements in test scores when you are holding people accountable for the tests.''
 The short answer, he said, is no.
 If teachers, administrators, politicians and others have a stake in raising the test scores of students -- as opposed to improving student learning, which is not the same thing -- there are all kinds of incentives to raise those scores by any means necessary.
 ''We've now had four or five different waves of educational reform,'' said Dr. Koretz, ''that were based on the idea that if we can just get a good test in place and beat people up to raise scores, kids will learn more. That's really what No Child Left Behind is.''
 The problem is that you can raise scores the hard way by teaching more effectively and getting the students to work harder, or you can take shortcuts and start figuring out ways, as Dr. Koretz put it, to ''game'' the system.
 Guess what's been happening?
 ''We've had high-stakes testing, really, since the 1970s in some states,'' said Dr. Koretz. ''We've had maybe six good studies that ask: 'If the scores go up, can we believe them? Or are people taking shortcuts?' And all of those studies found really substantial inflation of test scores.
 ''In some cases where there were huge increases in test scores, the kids didn't actually learn more at all. If you gave them another test, you saw no improvement.''
 There is not enough data available to determine how widespread this problem is. ''We know it doesn't always happen,'' said Dr. Koretz. ''But we know it often does.''
 He said his big concern is where this might be happening. ''There are a lot of us in the field,'' he said, ''who think that if we ever really looked under the covers, what we'd find is that the shortcuts are particularly prevalent in lower-achieving schools, just because the pressure is greater, the community supports are less and the kids have more difficulties. But we don't know.''
 One aspect of the No Child Left Behind law that doesn't get enough attention is that while it requires states to make progress toward student proficiency in reading and math, it leaves it up to the states themselves to define ''proficiency'' and to create the tests that determine what constitutes progress.
 That's absurd. With no guiding standard, the states' tests are measurements without meaning.
 A study released last week by the Thomas B. Fordham Institute and the Northwest Evaluation Association found that ''improvements in passing rates on state tests can largely be explained by declines in the difficulty of those tests.''
 The people in charge of most school districts would rather jump from the roof of a tall building than allow an unfettered study of their test practices. But that kind of analysis is exactly what's needed if we're to get any real sense of how well students are doing.
 Five years ago, President Bush and many others who had little understanding of the best ways to educate children were crowing about the prospects of No Child Left Behind. They were warned then about the dangers of relying too much on test scores.
 But those warnings didn't matter in an era in which reality was left behind.
 ''No longer is it acceptable to hide poor performance,'' said Mr. Bush, as if those who were genuinely concerned about the flaws in his approach were in favor of poor performance.
 During my interview with Dr. Koretz, he noted that by not rigorously analyzing the phenomenon of high-stakes testing, ''we're creating an illusion of success that is really nice for everybody in the system except the kids.''
 That was a few days before the release of the Fordham Institute Study, which used language strikingly similar to Dr. Koretz's. The study asserted that the tests used by states to measure student progress under No Child Left Behind were creating ''a false impression of success.''
 The study was titled, ''The Proficiency Illusion.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



157 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Stock Sales Are Creating Chinese Tycoons

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Shares of SOHO China, a Beijing property developer, soared 15 percent on their first day of trading Monday in Hong Kong in the latest hot public stock offering.
 The strong debut of SOHO, which values the company at $6 billion, comes at a time when stock prices in China are skyrocketing and some of the country's biggest cities are being transformed by a huge building boom.
 Despite China's efforts to curb real estate speculation, housing prices continue to rise, encouraging even more construction and a frenzy of public stock offerings by big real estate companies. 
 Over the last few years, a surge in the number of initial public offerings has created a new class of Chinese real estate tycoons, many of whom are already worth billions of dollars.
 While the United States is in the grips of a subprime mortgage crisis, investors in Chinese real estate are celebrating and pushing the value of housing and housing shares to new heights.
 SOHO China's initial public offering on Monday raised nearly $1.7 billion, or as much as Google raised in its 2004 public stock offering in the United States. 
 SOHO's founders, Pan Shiyi and Zhang Xin, a husband and wife team known for their stylish developments in Beijing, are now worth close to $4 billion on paper, based on the closing price.
 This year, a Chinese real estate developer named Country Garden raised $1.9 billion in a Hong Kong stock offering.
 Country Garden's largest shareholder is the founder's 25-year-old daughter, Yang Huiyan, to whom the founder gave all of his shares in 2005. She is thought to be the richest person in China, with shares now valued at about $16 billion. 
 Last year, the richest individual in China, according to Forbes, was Wong Kwong Yu, a retailing entrepreneur who was said to be worth $2.3 billion.
 ''This is sort of the best play in this market,'' said Michael Pettis, an associate professor of finance at Beijing University and a former investment banker. ''In real estate, you're getting overinflated profits from borrowing money to get cheap land and then selling at inflated prices. And then you've got a stock market that is valuing a dollar of earnings at about 40 or 50 times. So you've got a bubble on top of a bubble.''
 The rise of SOHO China and its real estate peers is emblematic of the economic growth in China, as well as the country's ambitions. An unprecedented construction boom in China is helping drive up the prices of commodities around the world.
 As China becomes more urban, millions of people are being moved, sometimes against their will, to make way for sprawling housing developments and central business districts.
 Many big projects, however, are erected in helter-skelter fashion, sometimes with as many as 50 look-alike high-rises crowded onto a single plot.
 ''The scale of what's happening there is unimaginable,'' said Thomas J. Campanella, an assistant professor of city and regional planning at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill and the author of the coming book ''The Concrete Dragon,'' a chronicle of China's rise. ''The greatest chapters of American urban development just pale in comparison to what is happening today in China.''
 Property developers who held valuable land near large urban centers are now sitting on enormous fortunes.
 On lists of China's wealthiest individuals, there are many real estate developers, like Shimao's Xu Rongmao ($6.7 billion) and Chen Zhuolin of Agile Properties ($4.7 billion).
 There have been warnings, of course, about a real estate downturn and the dangers of a recent jump in inflation, which some analysts fear could slow the economy, particularly after the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.
 But in spite of talk of housing bubbles, illegal land grabs and corrupt developers, China remains in a real estate bonanza.
 Global investment banks are among those cashing in. Goldman Sachs and HSBC took SOHO public. Merrill Lynch, UBS and Credit Suisse have played a role in big real estate offerings. 
 And Morgan Stanley has done more than most, helping raise $6 billion over the last three years by taking eight Chinese real estate companies public, including Shimao, Agile and Country Garden, whose shares are now valued at more than $27 billion.
 Shares in most of the developers climbed even higher after being listed. Shares of Shimao, for instance, have almost quadrupled since trading began in June last year. Agile's stock has climbed more than 300 percent in less than two years.
 For SOHO China, going public means paying down debt and refilling the coffers of a company that already has prime land in Beijing's central business district, where a crush of luxury residences and office towers are going up, seemingly all at once.
 Zhang Xin, a former Goldman Sachs investment banker, and her husband, Pan Shiyi, a real estate developer who also has a popular blog, have used a blend of marketing wizardry, savvy land deals and international architects to help create a huge fortune in just over a decade.
 The company's residential developments, like Jianwai SOHO in central Beijing, are populated by entrepreneurs, movie stars and Western executives, and even accompanied by Starbucks coffee shops.
 ''I'm really amazed at what I've been seeing in China,'' Professor Campanella said. ''It's as if home improvement and decoration are the No. 1 avocations there.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: SOHO China, the latest big real estate company to raise more than a billion dollars by going public, is building not only residences but also office projects like this one in Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REINHARD KRAUSE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); LAND SUBDIVISION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (53%); SUBPRIME LENDING (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: SOHO CHINA LTD (92%); EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (92%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: 0410 (HKSE) (92%); 3333 (HKSE) (92%); PANASONIC (NSE) (68%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (92%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (92%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



158 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: A Communist He Was, but Today, Che Sells

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
SANTA CLARA, Cuba, Oct. 8 -- Aleida Guevara March, the 46-year-old daughter of Che Guevara, says she can bear the Che T-shirts, the Che keychains, the Che postcards and Che paintings sold all over Cuba, not to mention the world. 
 At least some of the purchasers truly cherish Che, she says. On Monday she was surrounded by thousands of Che fans wearing his image here in Santa Clara, where her father's remains are kept, and where she sat in the front row of a ceremony to observe the 40th anniversary of his death. 
 Raul Castro, the acting president, attended. A message was read from his older brother Fidel, who ceded power in August 2006 after emergency surgery, likening his former comrade-in-arms to ''a flower that was plucked from his stem prematurely.''
 But amid all the ceremony, what really gets to Ms. Guevara is the use of the man she calls Papi in ways that she says are completely removed from his revolutionary ideals, like when a designer recently put Che on a bikini.
 In fact, 40 years after his death, Che -- born Ernesto Guevara de la Serna -- is as much a marketing tool as an international revolutionary icon. Which raises the question of what exactly does the sheer proliferation of his image -- the distant gaze, the scraggly beard and the beret adorned with a star -- mean in a decidedly capitalist world?
 Even in Cuba, one of the world's last Communist bastions, Che is used both to make a buck and to make a point. ''He sells,'' acknowledged a Cuban shop clerk, who had Che after Che staring down from a wall full of T-shirts. 
 But at least here he is also used to inspire the next generation of Cubans. Schoolchildren invoke his name every morning, declaring with a salute, ''We want to be like Che.'' His quotations are recited almost as often as those of Fidel Castro. 
 ''There's no doubt that when Fidel dies someday, his image will be just like Che's,'' said Enrique Oltuski, the vice minister of fishing and a contemporary of both men. But Che's mythic status as a homegrown revolutionary does not extend everywhere, even if his image does. When Target stores in the United States put his image on a CD carrying case last year, critics who consider him a murderer and symbol of totalitarianism pressed the retailer to pull the item. 
 ''What next? Hitler backpacks? Pol Pot cookware? Pinochet pantyhose?'' Investor's Business Daily said in an editorial, calling the use of the image an example of ''tyrant-chic.'' 
 That famous image of Che, by a Cuban photographer, Alberto Korda Diaz, was taken at a March 5, 1960, funeral rally for dozens of Cubans killed in a boat explosion for which Cuba blamed the United States. The picture became famous after appearing in Paris Match magazine in 1967, just weeks before Che was killed by soldiers in Bolivia, apparently aided by the C.I.A.
 Mr. Korda, who died in 2001 at age 72, never received royalties but did sue a British advertising agency over the use of the photo for a campaign promoting vodka. He won $50,000, which he donated toward buying medicine for children.
 Ms. Guevara and her family, too, have tried to stop the marketing of Che's image in ways that they find abhorrent. She says they have reached out to lawyers in New York, whom she would not identify, to pursue companies the family thinks are misusing the image, not to sue them for damages, but to ask them to stop. 
 ''We're not after money,'' she said. ''We just don't want him misused. He can be a universal person, but respect the image.'' 
 Some of Che's star power has rubbed off on his four surviving children, one of whom is named Ernesto Guevara and drove to the memorial on a motorcycle, just like Dad. Cubans hug the Guevaras in the street, and tourists are giddy when they learn who they are. 
 ''I have goose bumps,'' said Alfredo Moreno, 32, a Mexican who posed for a picture with Ms. Guevara, clearly overcome with emotion. ''I can't describe to you what this moment means to me.'' 
 As Mr. Moreno went on and on, Ms. Guevara told him to stop his fawning words.
 ''I'm a child of Che,'' she explained, ''but I'm not Che.'' 
 Ms. Guevara is in fact a pediatrician and mother of two who favors pantsuits over military fatigues. She resembles a Cuban soccer mom more than a revolutionary. 
 Her sister is a veterinarian. One brother manages a center devoted to Che in Havana. Then there is Ernesto, a Harley-Davidson aficionado. All are called on by the Cuban government from time to time to help continue their father's legacy. 
 It is not hard to detect a bit of exhaustion in all this, particularly now, when Cuba and much of Latin America are holding major events to honor both his death and, next June, what would have been his 80th birthday. 
 ''I can't be everywhere,'' Ms. Guevara said. ''I can't multiply myself.''
 Ms. Guevara travels the world speaking at conferences dealing with Che. At one in Italy, she learned after signing T-shirts for some young people that they were fascists. ''They knew nothing about him,'' she said with a sigh.
 Once, she said, she bumped into John F. Kennedy Jr. in Europe and discussed with him the challenges of being the offspring of a famous man.
 She called him ''a beautiful person,'' and said she was able to separate him from his father, who ordered the Bay of Pigs invasion to try to topple the government that Che had helped put in place in Cuba. 
 But bring up United States foreign policy, and the resemblance to her father really emerges. The fiery speech flows when she discusses the war in Iraq. She calls the economic embargo of Cuba that has stretched on for 50 years ''so brutal, so stupid, so irrational.'' 
 And don't even get her started about the Bush administration.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Raul Castro with Aleida Guevara March, right, daughter of Che Guevara, and Aleida March, center, Che's widow, at a ceremony yesterday for the 40th anniversary of Che's death. Che lives on as merchandise like these postcards in Santa Clara.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); MURDER (55%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (55%); CHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (51%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (51%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (51%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (78%); RAUL CASTRO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



159 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Obama Proposes Capping Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Making Polluters Pay

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Patrick Healy contributed reporting from Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama presented a plan on Monday to decrease the nation's dependence on foreign oil and fight global warming by creating an auction system requiring power companies and other industries to pay for their pollution. By the year 2020, he said, emissions would be reduced to levels from 1990. 
 In a speech in New Hampshire, Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential candidate from Illinois, called for imposing a national cap on carbon emissions, investing $150 billion over 10 years to develop new energy sources and reducing dependence on foreign oil by 35 percent by 2030.
 ''No business will be allowed to emit any greenhouse gases for free,'' Mr. Obama said in Portsmouth, N.H. ''Businesses don't own the sky, the public does, and if we want them to stop polluting it, we have to put a price on all pollution.''
 The energy speech was the latest effort by Mr. Obama to cast himself as a critic of how business has been conducted in Washington. Every president since Gerald R. Ford, Mr. Obama argued, has pledged to curb fossil fuel use, but the United States' dependence on foreign oil has climbed.
 He proposed instituting a mandatory ''cap and trade'' program across the economy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to the level recommended by top scientists, a figure that he did not specify Monday. Under his plan, businesses would be required to buy allowances to pollute, which would create financial incentives to limit energy use or reduce emissions.
 Mr. Obama said if he was elected, the government would set a national cap on carbon emissions, which by 2050 would be reduced to 80 percent below the levels in 1990. Though he did not mention his campaign rivals by name, Mr. Obama criticized those who opposed gradual increases in gasoline mileage standards for cars, which included Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York. 
 ''When they had the chance to stand up and require automakers to raise their fuel standards, they refused,'' Mr. Obama said. ''When they had multiple chances to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by investing in renewable fuels that we can literally grow right here in America, they said no.''
 Mr. Obama, who had faced criticism from some environmental groups for supporting the Bush administration's energy bill in 2005 and for pushing legislation to help Illinois' coal industry, was praised Monday by the League of Conservation Voters, an independent group. The group's president, Gene Karpinski, said, ''By embracing a mandatory cap-and-trade program, the Obama energy plan would provide incentives to cut production of carbon dioxide and other pollutants that cause global warming.''
 In Iowa, meanwhile, Mrs. Clinton began a ''rebuilding the middle class'' bus tour on Monday that included a 50-minute speech on economic prosperity with new proposals to benefit unions and homeowners in particular.
 Speaking in Cedar Rapids, she called for reviewing pacts like the North American Free Trade Agreement every five years -- not as aggressive a position as John Edwards's call for renegotiating Nafta or Representative Dennis J. Kucinich's call for canceling it, but an idea that received applause nonetheless.
 And she proposed giving Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac new flexibility to help companies and homeowners replace expiring adjustable-rate mortgages with fixed-rate loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); BIOFUELS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); LEGISLATION (60%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



160 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Captives of The Supply Side

BYLINE: By JONATHAN CHAIT. 
Jonathan Chait, a senior editor at The New Republic, is the author of ''The Big Con: The True Story of How Washington Got Hoodwinked and Hijacked by Crackpot Economics.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 REMEMBER the Republican presidential debate a few months ago, when three candidates raised their hands to indicate they didn't believe in evolution? Something just as laughable is likely to happen today, at the first Republican debate on the economy. Every candidate will probably embrace the myth that cutting taxes increases government revenues. At the very least, no one will denounce it as a falsehood.
 It's been said for years that the Republican nominating process is controlled by social conservatives, and that any aspiring nominee must kowtow to their demands. But this year's Republican primary is making it increasingly clear that a different tiny minority -- the economic far right -- truly calls the shots. 
 Last year, Senator John McCain earned widespread ridicule for publicly embracing Jerry Falwell, whom he had once described as ''evil.'' But an equally breathtaking turnabout occurred earlier in the year, when Mr. McCain embraced the Bush tax cuts he had once denounced as an unaffordable giveaway to the rich. In an interview with National Review, Mr. McCain justified his reversal by saying, ''Tax cuts, starting with Kennedy, as we all know, increase revenues.'' It was the political equivalent of Galileo conceding that the Sun does indeed revolve around the Earth.
 Mr. McCain is not alone. Every major Republican contender -- Rudy Giuliani, Fred Thompson, Mitt Romney -- has said that the Bush tax cuts have caused government revenues to rise. No prominent Republican office-seeker dare challenge this dogma for fear of offending the economic far right.
 Yet there is no more debate about this question among economists than there is debate about the existence of evolution among biologists. Most economists believe that it is theoretically possible for tax rates to be high enough that a reduction in rates could actually produce more revenues. But I do not know of any tenured economist in the United States who believes this is true of the Bush tax cuts. 
 Granted, economic growth sometimes causes revenues to rise faster than expected after a tax cut, as has happened since the 2003 tax cut. But sometimes revenues fall faster than expected after a tax cut, as they did after the 2001 tax cut. And sometimes revenues rise faster than expected after a tax increase, as they did after the 1993 Clinton tax increase.
 Even very conservative economists who have worked for the Bush administration -- including Greg Mankiw, a former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Bush who is now an adviser to Mr. Romney -- have publicly stated that today's tax revenues would be even higher were it not for the Bush tax cuts.
 No Republican candidate can risk committing heresy by acknowledging this bipartisan consensus among economists. On social issues, however, Republicans actually tolerate diversity of thought. For example, Mr. McCain, Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Thompson all oppose, on federalist grounds, a constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage.
 The Republican Party is organized around a strategy of building political capital on social issues while spending political capital on economic issues. Republicans will advance the social conservative agenda, but they will rarely risk their popularity to do so.
 As Trent Lott, the former Senate majority leader, recently observed: ''Republicans tend to squabble, but when it's fiscal issues, when it's economic issues, we tend to come together. That's what makes us Republicans.'' Mr. Lott is right if he's referring to the members of the Washington establishment who run the Republican Party. But when it comes to the party's rank-and-file members, he has it exactly backward. Grassroots Republicans agree on social issues but disagree on economics. 
 The most recent Pew survey of the electorate, which came out two years ago, revealed that Republicans find common ground on social issues like discouraging homosexuality and teaching creationism alongside evolution in the public schools. They disagree on economic policy. In the survey, most members of the Republican coalition preferred deficit reduction to tax cuts. 
 Ardent anti-tax conservatives represent a clear minority among Republican voters. And yet the most extreme and counterfactual subgroup among them -- supply-siders -- remain firmly in control of the party. 
 The party's economic priorities are reinforced at Grover Norquist's weekly ''Wednesday Group'' meetings, where conservative activists, politicians, business lobbyists and pundits meet to hash out a common agenda. Mr. Norquist is known to cut off any mention of issues like abortion or homosexuality with a curt ''No sex talk, please.''
 A handful of fanatical ideologues, along with a somewhat larger number of money men who stand to gain a fortune from supply-side policies, relentlessly enforce the faith. They do so with far more success than the religious right, and they receive far less mockery for their efforts.
 Just last month President Bush insisted, yet again, that ''supply-side economics yields additional tax revenues.'' Hardly an eyebrow was raised.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (DRAWING BY CARL WIENS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); FRED THOMPSON (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



161 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: In India's Coalition Math, Marxists' Power Is Magnified

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
To a stranger, Prakash Karat and the organization he leads, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), would seem like anachronisms in the roaring capitalist economy that is India today. 
 But quite improbably, by seizing on India's deepening friendship with the United States, Mr. Karat and his party have lately emerged as a sharp and dangerous weapon against the coalition government, making it plain that though the Communists do not have the strength to rule India, they have the power to spoil the plans of those who do. 
 On Monday night, as the International Atomic Energy Agency's director general, Mohamed ElBaradei, was due in India for what the government described as a routine, long-planned visit, political squabbling intensified, and speculation was rife that the increasingly strained relations between Mr. Karat's party and the government that it has supported were about to give way. 
 India's electoral math makes it impossible for Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's coalition government, which is led by the Congress Party, to govern without the backing of its Communist allies, principally Mr. Karat's party. And so, if Mr. Karat carried out his veiled threats to withdraw support, the government could not continue, and fresh elections would have to be called before its five-year term expires in 2009. 
 In a vague bit of saber rattling, Mr. Karat has threatened ''serious consequences'' if Mr. Singh's government advances its negotiations on its nuclear deal with the United States. He sees it as a part of a strategic alliance with the United States, intended to increase American weight in Asia -- and he wants none of it. 
 ''We don't want to be another Japan,'' Mr. Karat said. ''It's not in our interest.''
 The nuclear accord -- initiated by the Bush administration, approved provisionally by the United States Congress and described as a centerpiece of a new relationship between the countries -- would allow India to buy nuclear technology to generate energy. It would require India to negotiate separate agreements with the International Atomic Energy Agency and the 45-member Nuclear Suppliers Group. 
 The Congress Party seems to be rolling up its sleeves for a battle. The fourth-generation scion of the Gandhi-Nehru dynasty, Rahul Gandhi, was recently elevated in the party, becoming one of 11 general secretaries. His mother, Sonia Gandhi, the party chairwoman, said Sunday that those who opposed the nuclear deal were ''enemies'' of progress.
 ''We need not surrender our vital interests to America,'' the leftist parties roared back on Monday in a statement. 
 Government officials have contended that the deal does not signify the surrender of an independent foreign policy, an assertion that seems to have been borne out most recently with respect to Myanmar, formerly Burma. India has cultivated good relations with Myanmar's military rulers, and in contrast to American calls for sanctions, it has said little about the latest crackdown on antigovernment protests, except to gently suggest a investigation into the killings of protesters.
 Oddly, Mr. Karat's group has been closer to the American position on Myanmar in that it has urged greater pressure on its military rulers. He is fond of excoriating American policy in Iraq and equally fond of highlighting India's traditional strategic and cultural links with Iran.
 It was the nuclear deal that prompted Mr. Karat's most ferocious threats against the government and not a host of issues that might be expected to anger the Communists, like the dismal statistics on child malnutrition in India or the poor state of the country's public health system. 
 The Communists, long a part of the Indian political fabric, have rarely wielded as much influence as they have in the past three years as the government's allies. They have been blamed for blocking further liberalization of the economy, including the entry of foreign retail chains, for putting the brakes on proposed changes in labor laws and for opposing the nuclear deal on the basis of a lingering cold war mind-set. 
 ''There is a knee-jerk anti-Americanism,'' said the historian Ramachandra Guha. ''In some sense they can't forgive America for having won.'' 
 Mr. Guha also took pains to credit the Communists for having been less corrupt than other parties and for preventing violence against religious minorities in the states they have controlled. Such violence has engulfed many other places across India. 
 Shekhar Gupta, editor of the English-language daily The Indian Express and one of Mr. Karat's sharpest critics, said the Communist Party of India's opposition to the government had nothing to do with performance, only ideology. 
 ''Nothing irritates the left more than people of the other persuasion running a government successfully,'' Mr. Gupta said. 
 The Indian Communists are buffeted by ideological disagreements of their own, with Mr. Karat beating an anti-American drum, while his comrades in West Bengal, a state governed by the Communists, woo American industry to revitalize a sagging economy. 
 That state-led industrialization drive -- call it the Bengal Communists' more hammer, less sickle policy -- has invited violent peasant protests, and some say it has weakened the party's hold on one of its two key states. Kerala State is the other. The party holds 43 of 545 seats in Parliament, and forcing elections soon would not necessarily improve its standing. 
 Whether realpolitik will trump ideology remains to be seen. Mr. Karat, at any rate, casts himself as an ideologue. ''We're not going to come into power,'' he said flatly. ''We may win seats. We may lose seats.'' 
 For the government, Mr. Karat represents only one kind of Communist worry. India has another set of Communists: the Maoist guerrillas, uninterested in elections but increasingly, and violently, active to varying degrees in 13 of 28 Indian states. The prime minister has described those Communists as India's biggest internal security threat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prakash Karat is the general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist).(PHOTOGRAPH BY DESHAKALYAN CHOWDHURY/AFP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (78%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MYANMAR (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



162 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Thomson Deal With Reuters Draws European Scrutiny

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The European Union said yesterday that the Thomson Corporation's plan to buy the Reuters Group raised competition concerns for the supply of financial information. 
 The European Commission, Europe's antitrust authority in Brussels, told the companies it needed more time to study the $:8.7 billion ($17.7 billion) acquisition. Thomson and Reuters said in a separate statement that they would work with the commission on issues requiring further review.
 ''A second phase would give us the time to find out what we need to come to a proper and balanced decision,'' the competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, said yesterday.
 She declined to comment on what aspects of the combination the extended investigation would focus on. The commission said it would rule on the deal by Feb. 25.
 The acquisition of Reuters, a news organization based in London with 2,400 journalists in more than 130 countries, would increase Thomson's sales to $11 billion and triple its share of the financial data market to 34 percent. Thomson, based in Toronto, owns the Westlaw legal database and TradeWeb bond-trading network.
 The United States Justice Department will make a decision by Jan. 15, Thomson and Reuters also said yesterday.
 Bloomberg, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with Thomson Financial and Reuters in selling information and trading systems to the financial services industry.
 Reuters's 196 bureaus would expand Thomson's news organization beyond Thomson Financial News in North America and the AFX News service in Europe. Most of Thomson's management and staff work in the company's offices in Stamford, Conn.
 The companies said they expected to save more than $500 million annually three years after the combination.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ONLINE INFORMATION VENDORS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); BOND MARKETS (67%)

COMPANY: THOMSON REUTERS CORP (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (93%); WEST PUBLISHING CO (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (98%); TRI (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (98%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (98%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: NEELIE KROES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



163 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Glaxo Appoints New Chief

BYLINE: By ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
GlaxoSmithKline named Andrew Witty as its new chief executive on Monday, ending a yearlong internal competition for a successor to Jean-Pierre Garnier, who retires next year.
 Mr. Witty, 43, the current head of Pharmaceuticals Europe for GlaxoSmithKline, was chosen over the chief operating officer, David Stout, and the president of United States pharmaceuticals, Chris Viehbacher, for the top post at the drug maker. 
 Analysts and investors have been speculating about who would replace Mr. Garnier since he extended his contract at Glaxo until May 2008, to see the company through the introduction of a series of key drugs. His term had been due to expire this month on his 60th birthday.
 Mr. Garnier is leaving the company with a healthy pipeline of promising products, but Glaxo's share price remains deflated after a tough year in which there was a challenge to a key product and as a number of its United States patents near expiration.
 Glaxo shares are down about 8 percent since late May, when The New England Journal of Medicine had an article that evaluated dozens of studies on the company's diabetes treatment Avandia, and concluded that the drug increases the risk of heart attack and death.
 The Food and Drug Administration ruled in July that Avandia could stay on the market, but the drug's sales had already fallen.
 The company's shares slipped 0.98 percent to close at 1,317 pence ($26.90) in London. In the United States, GlaxoSmithKline shares slid 45 cents, to $53.62.
 Mr. Witty has been at Glaxo since 1985. An economics graduate of Nottingham University, Mr. Witty has worked around the world, including as managing director of Glaxo South Africa and senior vice president for the Asia-Pacific region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DIABETES (52%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (92%); LABORATOIRE GLAXOSMITHKLINE SAS (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (92%); GSK (LSE) (92%); BIOC (EGX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%)

PERSON: JEAN-PIERRE GARNIER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007



164 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Turkey Authorizes Troops to Enter Iraq to Fight Rebels

BYLINE: By SEBNEM ARSU and SABRINA TAVERNISE; Sebnem Arsu reported from Istanbul, and Sabrina Tavernise from Baghdad.. 
Sebnem Arsu reported from Istanbul and Sabrina Tavernise from Baghdad.

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Turkey took a step toward a military operation in Iraq on Tuesday, as its top political and military leaders issued a statement authorizing troops to cross the Iraq border to eliminate separatist Kurdish rebel camps in the northern region.
 Turkey moved toward military action in the face of strong opposition by the United States, which is anxious to maintain peace in the region, one of the rare areas of stability in conflict-torn Iraq. But more than two dozen Turkish soldiers have been killed in recent days, and the government of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan seemed far more determined than before to act decisively. 
 A government official without authorization to speak publicly on the issue who asked not to be identified by name, said preparations were under way to seek parliamentary approval for a cross-border military operation, a request that would be the first formal step toward an offensive. 
 The Associated Press reported that the request would be submitted to Parliament as early as Wednesday. 
 Government offices and institutions have been ordered ''to take all economic and political measures, including cross-border operations when necessary, in order to end the existence of the terror organization in a neighboring country,'' said the statement, which was released by Mr. Erdogan's office, after he met with political and military leaders in Ankara.
 A Turkish military offensive into northern Iraq, while unlikely, would have far-reaching consequences for the United States. Turkey is a NATO member and has the region's most powerful army. Turkey's support of the United States in the Iraq war is crucial. The United States' Incirlik Air Base in southern Turkey supplies the military in central Iraq. 
 Sean McCormack, a State Department spokesman, said the United States had encouraged Turkish officials to work together with the Iraqi government. 
 ''In our view, it is not going to lead to a long-term, durable solution to have significant incursions from Turkey into Iraq,'' he said at a news briefing in Washington. 
 But Iraq's government has little authority in the region, which is controlled exclusively by Kurds, and an accord reached by Iraq's interior minister and senior Turkish officials last month did not include permission for military operations, a formulation that frustrated Turkey.
 Relations between the United States and Turkey are delicate on another front. A bill on the Armenian genocide -- the killing of more than a million Armenians by Turkey at the end of World War I -- is due before the House Foreign Relations Committee on Wednesday. Turks have been working to prevent its consideration, with Mr. Erdogan making phone calls Tuesday, according to a Turkish member of Parliament in Washington to work against the bill. 
 Its passage ''would be insulting to Turkey,'' said Egeman Bagis, the Parliament member. ''It would mean losing Turkey's support in the region.''
 He did not say precisely what that might mean. Turkey ended military cooperation with France last year after France voted to make denial of the Armenian genocide a crime. 
 ''It could make it very difficult for Turkey to continue supporting'' the United States in Iraq, Mr. Bagis said.
 Turkey's foreign minister, Ali Babacan, made a similar appeal to Israeli authorities on a visit over the weekend, asking them to press Congress to drop the matter. Turkey has close relations with Israel, and Turkish officials have bristled at a recent statement by the Anti-Defamation League declaring that the killing of Armenians was ''tantamount to genocide.'' 
 Some analysts said that given the complex relationships among Turkey, Iraq and the United States, Turkey would continue to consider military action a last resort. 
 Edip Baser, a retired general who was special coordinator in a United States-Turkey effort against the Kurdish Workers' Party in 2006, said it was likely that political and military leaders would wait for the appropriate time to act.
 The government official who asked not to be identified by name said: ''Our government will soon start technical consultation with the military to see what they need in order to end this violence that make our hearts bleed. First, there needs to be necessary preparations and assessments. We can say that they have already started.'' Senior cabinet members, state officials and high-ranking military officials met Tuesday after President Abdullah Gul, Mr. Erdogan and Gen. Yasar Buyukanit, the leader of the Turkish Army, vowed to strengthen efforts against the Kurdish Workers' Party, the Kurdish rebel group.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Turkish military trucks towed tanks yesterday on a road between Cizre and Sirnak Province near the border with Iraq. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); WORLD WAR I (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); GENOCIDE (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); APPROVALS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); ARMENIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



165 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 517 words

BYLINE: By

 BODY:
WHOM CAN SHAREHOLDERS SUE? Shareholders looking for deep pockets to sue in securities fraud cases faced an uphill battle at the Supreme Court. In arguments over a closely watched shareholders' suit, the court appeared strongly inclined to leave it to Congress to define the circumstances under which investment banks, auditors and vendors can be sued in private securities fraud actions. 
 HEDGE FUNDS' NINE LIVES The raucous hedge fund and private equity party of recent years hit a rough patch over the summer, but don't declare these investment vehicles dead. [C1.] 
 MUM ON THE DOLLAR The dollar is slumping near all-time lows against the euro and has weakened considerably against several other major currencies, but officials in Washington are reacting to the dollar's slide with almost contented silence. [C1.] 
 FED UNCERTAINTY SPURS RALLY Members of the Federal Reserve were concerned about a credit squeeze and uncertain about the direction of the economy when they decided to lower interest rates last month. The release of that meeting's minutes prompted a rally on Wall Street. [C1.] 
 WAL-MART SEEKS LOWER TAXES Wal-Mart has sought to reduce the property taxes it pays on 35 percent of its stores and 40 percent of its distribution centers, according to a report to be released today by a group critical of Wal-Mart. The company wins lower taxes in half the challenges it brings, the group found. [C3.] 
 A MERGER OF BREWERS SABMiller and Molson Coors, the nation's No. 2 and No. 3 brewers, said they would merge their operations in the United States and Puerto Rico. The joint venture, to be known as MillerCoors, will have $6.6 billion in annual sales. [C3.] 
 HEATING COSTS GOING UP The government said American consumers should expect sharply higher heating bills this winter. Average spending for households is expected to jump by 10 percent, and spending on heating oil is expected to jump 22 percent. [C1.] 
 NBC ACQUIRES OXYGEN NBC Universal announced the acquisition of Oxygen, a cable television channel aimed at women. NBC, a division of General Electric, said it would pay $925 million including debt for the company. The price was widely seen as a bargain for NBC Universal. [C9.] 
 THANK THEM FOR YOUR IPOD Two physicists -- from Germany and from France -- who discovered how to manipulate thin layers of atoms to store vast amounts of data on tiny disks, making iPods and other wonders of modern life possible, were named winners of the Nobel Prize in Physics. [A11.] 
 RECYCLING YIELDS PAY DIRT Recycling is in the doldrums in many parts of the country, but not in Seattle, where residents recycle 44 percent of their trash (the national average is 30 percent). The city's latest effort: using yard waste and food scraps to create loamy compost sold throughout the Northwest. [A14.] 
 POTPIES ON HOLD ConAgra Foods voluntarily stopped production at the Missouri plant that makes its Banquet potpies after health officials said the pies may be linked to 139 cases of salmonella in 30 states. ConAgra said that its pies are safe if they are cooked properly. [A20.] 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RETAILERS (77%); WOMEN'S MARKET (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); EURO (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (66%); HEATING OIL (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (68%); SABMILLER PLC (54%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: SOSAB (JSE) (54%); SAB (LSE) (54%); TAP (NYSE) (54%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (54%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (54%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); FRANCE (78%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



166 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: States and V.A. at Odds on Cancer Data

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Until recently, the nation's cancer surveillance program was humming along. In every state, investigators were getting reports from every hospital describing every cancer patient they had seen. 
 The data, which include the name, address, age, race and medical history of patients, are used to compile cancer rates. They also are used to investigate survival and other issues, like unusual cancer clusters and whether patients' experiences are different depending on their racial or economic group.
 While other hospitals are required by state laws to submit data, Veterans Affairs hospitals are not. And now, for the first time, veterans hospitals have stopped providing information on their cancer patients. The concern, the Veterans Affairs Department says, is protecting patient privacy. The department has set up a new national directive setting conditions for using patients' personal information and has said it cannot provide data unless and until states sign it.
 At issue, says Dr. Joel Kupersmith, chief of the department's research and development office, is ''the dynamic tension between patient privacy and the desire to use patients' private information to do research.'' 
 Only a handful of states have signed the directive so far, and Veterans Affairs is just starting to send some of them data. Other states, including California, whose population includes more veterans than any other state's, have not signed and say the department's conditions are almost impossible to meet. 
 In the meantime, when the National Cancer Institute publishes its latest national cancer statistics next summer, they will be missing data from V.A. patients. And that will make them hard to interpret. If prostate cancer rates fall is that because V.A. patients were excluded, for example?
 ''Cancer research will be severely impacted,'' said Dr. Brenda K. Edwards, associate director of the cancer institute's surveillance research program. 
 Dr. Edwards added that the situation was so complicated that investigators could not even find a good way to estimate what the new rates would have been if the veterans' data had been provided. 
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also relies on data from the state registries. Christie R. Eheman, acting chief for the C.D.C.'s cancer surveillance branch, says she has been talking to V.A. administrators, trying to resolve the situation.
 ''I think we've got some hard work to do,'' Dr. Eheman said.
 But the veterans agency says there is a limit to how much it can compromise. 
 ''The V.A. has come down clearly,'' Dr. Kupersmith said. ''The paramount issue for us is the protection of patient privacy and the protection of patient information.''
 He added that the department was especially sensitive to privacy concerns in light of incidents like the theft by teenagers last year of a laptop computer containing personal information on 26.5 million veterans.
 The impasse over the cancer data began innocuously enough in California, in October 2005, with a routine request. The state's central cancer registry needed to renew its agreement with V.A. hospitals in the state, as is required every three years. 
 But this time, the veterans agency had some questions. When California sent in its renewal materials it made clear that the state had provided V.A. data to qualified outside scientists. 
 But who, the agency asked, was getting that medical and personal information? And what were they doing with it?
 There was no way to reply, said Dr. Dee West, the chief scientific officer for the Northern California Cancer Center, one of several surveillance centers in the state. The data go to many researchers and the veterans' data are mingled with those from all the other hospitals. It would be impossible to sort everything out.
 And the agency's requests came out of nowhere, said William E. Wright, who was chief of the California cancer registry. The V.A. had been providing its patient data since 1972 without incident. 
 Finally, after a barrage of e-mail messages between Dr. Wright and the V.A., the state asked Veterans Affairs to clarify its position. The department replied with a directive on Aug. 22 that applied to every veterans hospital. And the agency told its hospitals to stop providing information on cancer patients unless and until the states signed its new directive.
 Among other things, it says that anyone who wants to use personal data involving Veterans Affairs patients must either get permission from the V.A.'s under secretary of health or find an agency researcher to collaborate with and get permission from the hospital's ethics board. The directive also says that patient information must be encoded so that unauthorized people cannot read it. 
 Cancer researchers say they have no idea how they will meet the conditions, said Tina Clarke, an epidemiologist at the Northern California Cancer Center.
 For example, Dr. Clarke said, it is not so easy to find a V.A. researcher to collaborate with.
 ''It means the V.A. collaborator has to have time and has to want to work with you on your research question,'' she said. 
 As for the ethics board, Dr. Clarke said it could take a year or more to get the required permissions from a local board, the registry's board and, now, the V.A.'s board. Any time a board wants a change that the others did not approve, the proposal would have to go back to the others.
 ''Privacy concerns are serious,'' Dr. Clarke said. ''But at the same time, this is a baby with the bath water problem.''
 The directive leaves states with three options: do not sign, sign and use the data for research under the V.A.'s conditions, or sign and use data only to compile numbers of cancers. Investigators do not need patient names or other identifying patient information to simply count how many cancers were reported. 
 With the third option, however, research is limited. For example, finding death rates requires following cancer patients. That means knowing their identities. So do investigations of questions like whether people who lived near a chemical dump were developing cancers. Investigators would need the names and addresses of cancer patients in the area, including V.A. patients. 
 V.A. administrators say they understand the difficulties but have to protect patients. 
 ''We serve mostly an older population,'' said Raye-Anne Dorn, the department's national coordinator for cancer programs. Many, she said, do not want to be contacted by researchers. 
 In fact, Ms. Dorn said she felt that way herself. ''I'm a vet and I'm also a cancer survivor,'' she said. ''I wouldn't take kindly to getting a call from researchers.''
 Senator Daniel K. Akaka, the Hawaii Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs oversight committee, expressed sympathy for the V.A.'s position.
 Researchers, Mr. Akaka said, ''need to try to see what they can do about working with the system and the process.'' 
 Now, states are asking: Is it better to go along with the V.A. and get the data, even if the restrictions make it almost impossible to use the patient information in research? Or is it better to hold firm and not sign?
 New Jersey decided to sign, said Dr. Eddy A. Bresnitz, the state epidemiologist. ''We don't have a choice,'' Dr. Bresnitz said. ''What are we going to do? At the end of the day we want the data.''
 Yet the situation, with some states signing and others holding firm, creates a new problem, Dr. Bresnitz said. How can anyone accurately compare cancer rates among states? 
 In the meantime, V.A. patients will be missing from the latest cancer reports, creating gaps in the cancer record, researchers say. These patients constitute 4 percent of the cancer patients in California, or about 3,000 cases, said Dr. Dennis Deapen, director of the Los Angeles Cancer Surveillance Program. 
 California has not signed the directive, and its centers have not been getting data in the two years since the impasse began.
 It is especially difficult now to compile national statistics, said Dr. Edwards of the cancer institute. In some states, V.A. hospitals reported data until last month. In others, limited amounts are being reported, and in still other states, no data have been reported for a year or more. 
 Dr. Edwards is working with other statisticians to see if she can estimate of how many cases are going to be missing in this year's cancer report. 
 But, she said, ''it's not clear how that accurate that estimate is going to be.'' 

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Restricting Cancer Data'' Veterans Affairs hospitals have stopped reporting cancer data to state registries, a change that will affect national cancer statistics. (Source: California Cancer Registry) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); CANCER HOSPITALS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); ONCOLOGY (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); MEN'S HEALTH (73%); PROSTATE CANCER (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); PROSTATE DISEASE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



167 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Indians Count on an Old Friend's Appeal

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
PERHAPS the trickiest thing about launching the Tanka bar, a sweet, smoky energy snack made from buffalo and berries, wasn't developing the recipe or designing the package. It was describing MySpace to the leaders of the Great Plains tribes.
 ''You should have heard me try,'' said Karlene Hunter, chief executive officer of the Native American Food Company in Kyle, S.D., which makes the bars. ''It was a foreign entity to them.''
 The social networking site's youthful cultural impact is central to the marketing strategy for the Tanka bar, which is aimed at a generation of young people raised on grab-and-go food. But the makers also needed formal approval from the elders of the Oglala Sioux and other tribes. Without it, Ms. Hunter said, all the Internet buzz in the world could not keep the Tanka bar from tanking. 
 The bar was created on the Pine Ridge Reservation of the Lakota tribe, in South Dakota, and the first buffalo used to make the bars was donated by the tribe's parks and recreation department. 
 ''Tanka'' means ''larger than life'' in Lakota, and the makers of the little bar are thinking big -- like establishing a presence in every convenience store east and west of the Mississippi. With its slick marketing plan, reservation roots and list of healthy ingredients, the Tanka bar could be the first national break-out product made on a reservation.
 But first, its creators want to make sure most of the 1.5 million bars in the initial run get into the hands of Native Americans. ''The first part of the launch is for the native people, who usually haven't been anyone's first focus for products,'' said Ms. Hunter, a member of the Lakota tribe. 
 Samples have been handed out at basketball games on reservations and Indian health conferences. Last weekend, the bar had its formal launch at the big He Sapa Wacipi Black Hills Pow Wow at the Rushmore Plaza Civic Center in Rapid City, S.D., where last Friday was declared Tanka Bar Day by the mayor. 
 The one-ounce bar and its half-ounce sibling, the Tanka Bite, are also sold online at www.tankabar.com. A box of 12 full-size bars costs $24.89 plus shipping. (Early word caused the product to sell out, so orders made this week won't be shipped until Oct. 22.) 
 The Tanka bar is a modern version of a traditional food called wasna, a mix of meat and berries that Plains Indians used to pack into buffalo horns to sustain them on long journeys. Its creators hope the bar will be a bridge to the past for young people who are more accustomed to grabbing chips or a hot dog. 
 ''We want to show them that this is our original fast food,'' Ms. Hunter said.
 But it's all in the pitch. 
 ''In Indian country we don't say, 'this is good for you,''' she said. ''That will turn them away. We say, 'In traditional times our people could run great distances eating this food. So taste it. It tastes good.''' 
 Its creators hope the bar, with its high protein, low-fat profile and a mere 70 calories, will be one small step in bringing young Native Americans back to a healthier, traditional diet. Others have made versions of wasna, but none on this scale.
 The obesity and diabetes epidemic has disproportionately affected Alaska Natives and Native Americans, who are more than twice as likely as whites to have type 2 diabetes. On the Pine Ridge Reservation, almost half the adults have diabetes. 
 The reservation is also ranked as one of the 10 poorest places in America, where as many as three-quarters of the residents don't have work. Because the Tanka Bar had the potential to create new jobs, the Native American Food Company received a $99,000 economic development grant from the Department of Agriculture and loans from funds designed to create jobs on the reservation. 
 Native American food has not gained a foothold in grocery stores. Shelf space for Mexican, Chinese and other so-called ethnic food products continues to grow. But not so for Native American food, of which there are fewer products. 
 But that, say the sellers of Native American food, may be changing.
 ''Our challenge is that so many products are coming out every year, and we're considered a new ethnic group, but technically it's the oldest ethnic group,'' said Pam Atcitty. 
 For the past three years, she and her husband, R. Threehawk Atcitty, have run a food distribution company with about 25 products, including their best-seller, Two Flaming Arrows hot sauce.
 Figuring out the Tanka Bar's basic recipe and finding a way to keep the bars fresh and moist took two years. Ms. Hunter and Mark Tilsen, the company president, interviewed elders who tried to remember how their mothers made wasna. The mix included buffalo, chokecherries and some kind of fat, usually from buffalo kidney.
 They quickly figured out that kidney fat was not going be very appealing, so they tinkered with honey, pineapple and cherry juice to keep the meat moist. And they tried fillers like oats and flax to bulk up the bar. 
 In the end, the development team decided to just stick with the basics -- bison and cranberries. The bison is raised on prairie grass, and the makers buy as much as they can from Native American ranchers. The cranberries, from Wisconsin, are more easily available than the wild, local chokecherries. (The bars also contain small amounts of sea salt, granulated garlic and onion, hydrolyzed soy protein, flavorings and lactic acid.) 
 Researchers at South Dakota State University helped with the food science, and the bars are made at a local specialty meat processor using a method that involves nine hours of slow smoking.
 To keep the bars fresh, they added a small card that contains a powder that absorbs oxygen. On the card is printed the word ''pilamaya,'' or ''thank you'' in Lakota, aimed at both the buffalo and the consumer, Mr. Tilsen said. 
 The bumpy, dark bars are better than one might expect from a packaged meat snack. The buffalo is slightly smoky and softer than jerky, and the sweet-tart flavor of the cranberries plays off a light touch of garlic and onion.
 Already, members of the South Dakota band The Reddmen are fans, the creators said, and the snack has gotten some early press and blog mentions. 
 But will the bar catch on among Native Americans from other parts of the country?
 Native American health educators spend a lot of time encouraging people to return to healthy, traditional foods, said Henry Haskie, a health and nutrition specialist who grew up in the Southwest, on the Navajo reservation. He said he thinks the Tanka bar has promise.
 ''I haven't heard of it but it sounds good, to tell you the truth,'' he said. 
 Mr. Haskie did have one piece of advice if the Lakotas want to sell Tanka bars to the Navajo nation: Change the recipe to reflect the traditional foods of his region.
 ''They should make one with mutton,'' he said. ''And maybe blue corn.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HERITAGE: Jayson Brave Heart, below, hands out Tanka bars, made of buffalo meat and cranberries, at a powwow of the Morongo tribe in Cabazon, Calif., where dancers perform. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AXEL KOESTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F6) MARKETED: Buffalo meat is used in snack made by Native Americans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW D. BROSIG/THE MORNING SUN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); PREPARED FOODS (74%); CONVENIENCE STORES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MARKETING PLAN (70%); MARKETING STRATEGY (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (66%); BASKETBALL (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RAPID CITY, SD, USA (79%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



168 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks Rules to Allow Increase in Guest Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Bush administration officials said yesterday that they were developing new rules so the nation's farmers could bring in more foreign guest workers to prevent a recurrence of problems like growers' letting their fruit rot because there were not enough laborers for the harvest.
 Farm groups have long pressed the administration to eliminate hurdles that make it hard to bring in guest workers, saying they face a crisis because stepped-up federal immigration enforcement has reduced the number of farm workers. By many estimates, more than half of the nation's 2.5 million farm workers are illegal immigrants. 
 Administration officials said they saw a need to make procedural changes and larger regulatory changes in the guest worker program after Congress killed an immigration overhaul last summer.
 ''The current temporary agricultural worker program has become too antiquated and too cumbersome to be used effectively by producers,'' said a White House spokesman, Scott Stanzel. ''The program needs to be updated to reflect today's economy and to utilize technological and other advances.''
 Under the H-2A program, farmers can bring in temporary workers after demonstrating that American workers are not interested in the jobs and after going through a lengthy application process. Currently, they bring in about 50,000 such workers a year. 
 After President Bush called for changes in the program on Aug. 10, the White House, the Department of Labor and the Department of Homeland Security solicited recommendations from farm groups on how to streamline the program. 
 The administration is pressing ahead on that effort, first reported in The Los Angeles Times, after some growers in the Northwest let their cherries and apples rot because of a shortage of workers and after some growers in North Carolina did not plant cucumbers this year because they feared not having enough workers for the harvest.
 The National Council of Agricultural Employers has written to the administration to urge changes like speeding up the H-2A application process, easing housing requirements for guest workers, reducing the required wage for these workers and increasing the types of work they are allowed to do -- poultry processing might be included, for instance. Grower groups have also urged the administration to ease requirements that they run newspaper advertisements to determine whether American workers want the jobs.
 The council's executive vice president, Sharon M. Hughes, said the application process often took so long that by the time some farmers obtained guest workers the harvest was over. Ms. Hughes said the number of farm workers available was down about 200,000, or nearly 10 percent, from last year because of more aggressive border enforcement.
 ''Right now,'' she said, ''the H-2A program provides about 2 percent of the farm work force and for us to try to double that number with the current government infrastructure would cause it to collapse on itself unless we have these reforms.''
 The executive vice president of the Western Growers Association, Jasper Hempel, said: ''We're caught in a vise. When labor isn't available, we have a legal program using H-2A, but many farmers can't use that program because there are so many impediments. They throw up double requirements. They don't process papers when they say they will. There isn't enough staff.''
 Grower groups say that even more than administrative changes, they would prefer enacting stalled legislation that would greatly streamline the H-2A program and create a path to citizenship for many undocumented farm workers.
 A Labor Department spokesman, David James, said the administration was mindful of the farmers' concerns. 
 ''The Department of Labor,'' Mr. James said, ''is now in the process of identifying ways the program can be improved to provide farmers with an orderly and timely flow of legal workers while protecting the rights of both U.S. workers and foreign temporary workers.''
 Advocates for farm workers have voiced dismay about the administration's plans and the industry's recommendations.
 ''The industry's demands would amount to a cheap foreign labor policy,'' said Bruce Goldstein, executive director of Farmworker Justice. ''They would make it easier for employers to bring in guest workers and slash wage rates and other labor protections.''
 The administration also faces criticism from conservative groups that dislike bringing in more immigrants.
 ''If there is a demonstrable need for the workers, we have no objection to bringing them in,'' said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which opposes liberalizing immigration rules. ''But here they're trying to tip the balance in favor of employers. The administration wants not just to cut down on administrative procedures, but to bypass the whole process that has been put in place to protect American workers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (93%); FOREIGN LABOR (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); POULTRY PROCESSING (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



169 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MACAO JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: In a Wave of Gambling Profits, an Undertow for Some

BYLINE: By DONALD GREENLEES

DATELINE: MACAO, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
A few miles from the casino lights that advertise the new wealth of Macao's gambling-fueled economy stands a grimy row of overcrowded apartments, the Rua Um do Bairro Va Tai.
 In the days of Portugal's colonial rule, this street and the surrounding neighborhood in the north of Macao, a short stroll from the border gate with mainland China, became home to some of the city's poorest residents.
 Despite years of spectacular economic growth, local residents say the area is little changed, left on the margins of the casino boom. 
 Kuan Keng Nam, whose father runs a small home repair business here, recently landed a job as a cook in a Portuguese restaurant in the food court of the Venetian, the newest and biggest of the casinos.
 But Mr. Kuan, 23, found that a casino job was not a ticket out of a place where many of the people he knows are either unemployed or underemployed. Each month Mr. Kuan earns 7,000 patacas, as the Macanese currency is called, or $876 -- a respectable income by local standards, but it does not go very far.
 Like many other Macanese, he complains that the influx of labor from China keeps wages low, while the cost of living, especially rents in working-class neighborhoods, spirals upward.
 ''Mainland people might be earning 3,000 a month at home,'' he said. ''They come here, and they earn 6,000. For them, it's a high rate; for us, it's too low.''
 This is the reverse side of Macao's phenomenal growth, out of sight of most visitors to the artificial world created by new casinos like the Venetian, where the sky above the gondolas on the fake canal is always blue because it is painted on the ceiling.
 ''The government tells us the casino boom is bringing wealth to Macao,'' said Jose Pereira Coutinho, a deputy in the Legislative Assembly. ''That is not true, because this wealth is only for a few. It is not helping people who are suffering.''
 In what has traditionally been a placid political environment, signs of public discontent are emerging. Several thousand people protested on Oct. 1, China's National Day, for the first time. They marched over of grievances ranging from harsh new penalties for illegal parking to corruption in government and the use of illegal labor. The demonstration followed a rowdy protest in May on similar issues. Another protest is expected in December to coincide with the anniversary of the return of Macao to Chinese sovereignty in 1999.
 Macao's small democratic movement is also riding the wave of discontent to step up its campaign for direct elections of the chief executive and Legislative Assembly. Current laws provide for popular election of only 12 of the 29 legislators. The chief executive is appointed by an electoral college of influential citizens, most of whom are seen as conservative allies of Beijing. 
 There is a common theme to recent antigovernment sentiment, legislators and political analysts say: Living standards for the poor and middle class are being eroded, and the government of Chief Executive Edmund Ho is out of touch.
 An annual report from the European Commission on conditions in Macao said in August that the gambling boom had resulted in ''steep and widening inequality of incomes.''
 With imported workers -- principally from mainland China but also from Southeast Asia -- numbering about 70,000, or a quarter of the work force, the labor market has become more competitive and wages have not keep up with price rises. Property prices and rents are estimated to have risen by 200 percent to 300 percent.
 It is hard to reconcile these problems with the official economic data, which portray Macao as a huge economic success. Last year, the economy grew 16.6 percent, one of the fastest rates in the world. Official unemployment in August was 3.1 percent.
 The city's 23 casinos generated revenues of $6.87 billion in 2006, surpassing Las Vegas as the world's largest gambling market. As money from gambling tourists has flooded in, per capita income reached $28,436 in 2006, according to the government, which placed Macao on a par with Hong Kong, its wealthy neighbor across the Pearl River Delta.
 But for older workers, and those who miss out on a casino or civil service job, opportunities and incomes have deteriorated. Many earn less than a quarter of the wages pulled in by a card dealer in casino.
 Lei Kok Eiu, a 62-year-old electrician who retired this year from a pharmaceutical factory, said the reality for many workers is this: ''Don't get sick. If you get sick, you can't afford it.''
 Political analysts say the popular frustration over widening income inequality is being further exacerbated by a succession of government bribery scandals.
 All of this has emboldened Macao's democrats and swelled their ranks.
 In contrast to the boisterous democracy movement in Hong Kong, the people of Macao have tended to be ambivalent about their politics.
 The Sino-Portuguese Joint Declaration of 1987 and the Basic Law, Macao's mini-constitution, make no mention of universal suffrage as the ultimate goal of political reform, as the Basic Law in Hong Kong does.
 ''The situation in Macao is similar to Hong Kong in the 1970s,'' said Eilo Yu, a political science lecturer at the University of Macao. ''The society is developing in Macao and starting to mobilize. It is becoming more and more politically active. In the long run, people will keep on challenging the government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Several thousand Macanese protested corruption in their government and the use of illegal labor on Oct. 1, China's National Day. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE CLARKE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 DENNIS HO/REUTERS) MAP: Macao's 23 casinos had revenues of $6.87 billion in 2006, surpassing even Las Vegas. Map of Macao in China. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CASINOS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CORRUPTION (64%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%); PARKING OFFENSES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); MACAO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



170 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Malpractice Solutions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''After Texas Caps Malpractice Awards, Doctors Rush to Practice There'' (news article, Oct. 5): 
 The undeniable benefits of Texas' cap on ''pain and suffering'' awards in medical malpractice lawsuits underscore the critical need for reform in New York State, where hospitals and physicians are deeply concerned about their ability to afford medical liability coverage. 
 The inequities of a litigation system that does not accurately distinguish between adverse outcomes and negligence, and in which juries award seemingly arbitrary damages on top of economic and medical damages, are pushing providers to the brink.
 Texas is proving that it doesn't have to be this way. As mentioned in the article, the malpractice cap has vastly increased the ranks of specialists at its hospitals and improved health care access in its underserved rural communities, and doctors who have relocated there have seen sharp drops in their malpractice premiums. 
 Similar reforms in New York could have the same positive results while still ensuring fair compensation for injuries. 
 Texas' success story highlights the critical importance of New York's recently formed Medical Malpractice Liability Task Force, which has been charged by Gov. Eliot Spitzer with identifying the fundamental causes of high medical malpractice costs and proposing solutions. 
 Texas is showing us that it truly can be done. Kenneth E. Raske
 President
 Greater New York Hospital Association
 New York, Oct. 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (92%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); NEGLIGENCE (78%); DAMAGES (78%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



171 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Ford to Build Car Plant in Thailand

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
As it proceeds with plans to cut jobs and close factories in North America, the Ford Motor Company is expanding aggressively in Asia, announcing a $500 million investment Tuesday to build a car plant in Thailand just two weeks after opening a $510 million manufacturing center in Nanjing, China.
 Both investments were made with Mazda, the Japanese company that Ford controls through a 33.4 percent stake -- a partnership that provides Ford with both cash and manufacturing skills. 
 ''We're looking for profitable growth,'' said John Parker, Ford's executive vice president for Asia and Africa. ''You have to put some foundations in place.''
 Ford's strategy appears to be to save money by curtailing operations in North America while making money by expanding in growth markets in Asia and elsewhere abroad.
 The company announced worldwide losses of $12.7 billion last year and said it planned to idle or close 16 North American facilities by 2012, including seven vehicle assembly plants.
 Its operations outside the United States provide Ford with a lifeline of liquidity, including $551 million in pretax profit in South America in 2006, $469 million in Europe and $168 million through the association with Mazda.
 The company lost $185 million in Asia last year, mainly because of a collapse of sales in Taiwan and shifting tastes in Australia away from larger cars, but rebounded in the second quarter of 2007 to $26 million in profit.
 The plant in Thailand will produce 100,000 small cars, with 80 percent of them to be exported to other Southeast Asian countries as well as Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. Ford has no plans to export the small passenger car, known in the industry as a B-class, to the United States, Mr. Parker said. 
 Exporting to the United States could antagonize the United Automobile Workers, the union facing layoffs as part of Ford's corporate overhaul under Alan R. Mulally, the chief executive appointed in September 2006 to help turn around the carmaker. U.A.W. talks with General Motors last month led to a short strike. Chrysler is being threatened with a walkout in current talks, and Ford will be next to negotiate.
 Thailand will export about 625,000 vehicles this year, 70 percent of them pickup trucks, of a total output of 1.25 million vehicles.
 American pickup truck makers are shielded to an extent from foreign competition by a 25 percent tariff imposed in the 1960s, known colloquially as the chicken tax because it was initially levied in retaliation for duties imposed on American chicken exports.
 The investment by Ford and Mazda helps cement Thailand's place as the third-largest Asian car manufacturer, behind Japan and South Korea. The expansion of Ford and Mazda into small cars helps Thailand diversify beyond pickups.
 Last week, the Thai board of investment approved plans by Honda to double its annual production capacity here to 240,000 cars.
 Japanese carmakers, led by Toyota, have gradually shifted some of their production to Thailand over the last decade. Nissan, Mitsubishi, and Isuzu and its partner General Motors, also have major plants in the country.
 ''It's a big vote of confidence for Thailand,'' said Frederic Neumann, chief Thailand economist for HSBC, referring to Ford's and Mazda's investment. 
 Vallop Tiasiri, president of the Thailand Automotive Institute, a government agency that plans strategy, says Thailand will have a manufacturing capacity of two million cars in the next five years.
 Thailand suffers from political uncertainty. The generals who took power just over a year ago have scheduled elections in December, but questions remain about the future political role of the military and of Thaksin Shinawatra, the exiled prime minister who retains considerable popularity among some groups..

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); PICKUP TRUCKS (70%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); POULTRY (68%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MAZDA MOTOR CORP (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 7261 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (85%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (78%) EAST CHINA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (73%) THAILAND (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (86%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



172 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Guards Kill 2 Iraqi Women In New Shooting

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER and JAMES GLANZ; Reporting was contributed by Richard A. Oppel Jr., Qais Mizher and Ahmad Fadam from Baghdad, John M. Broder from Washington, and Graham Bowley from New York.. 
Reporting was contributed by Richard A. Oppel Jr., Qais Mizher and Ahmad Fadam from Baghdad, John M. Broder from Washington, and Graham Bowley from New York.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Two women died here on Tuesday when their white Oldsmobile was riddled by automatic gunfire from guards for a private security company, just weeks after a shooting by another company strained relations between the United States and Iraq.
 The guards involved in the Tuesday shooting were working for an Australian-run security company. But the people they were assigned to protect work under the same United States government agency whose security guards sprayed bullets across a crowded Baghdad square on Sept. 16, an episode that caused an uproar among Iraqi officials and is still being investigated by the United States. 
 In the Tuesday shooting, as many as 40 bullets struck the car, killing the driver and the woman in the front seat on the passenger side. A woman and a boy in the back seat survived, according to witnesses and local police officials in the Karada neighborhood, where the shooting took place on a boulevard lined with appliance stores, tea shops and money changers.
 American government officials said the guards had been hired to protect financial and policy experts working for an organization under contract with the United States Agency for International Development, a quasi-independent State Department agency that does extensive aid work in Iraq. 
 The organization, RTI International, is in Iraq to carry out what is ultimately a State Department effort to improve local government and democratic institutions. But a Bush administration official said the State Department bore no responsibility for overseeing RTI's security operations.
 ''A.I.D. does not direct the security arrangements of its contractors,'' the official said. ''These groups are contractually responsible for the safety and security of their employees. That responsibility falls entirely on the contractor.''
 A priest and relatives near the scene said that all of the people in the car were Armenian Christians, who make up a small minority group in Iraq. The Oldsmobile was shot once in the radiator, witnesses said, in front of a plumbing supply store as it approached a convoy of white sport utility vehicles 50 yards away.
 As the car kept rolling, a barrage of gunfire suddenly tore through its hood, roof and windshield, as well as the passenger side.
 The guards who were in the convoy work for Unity Resources Group, an Australian-run company that has its headquarters in Dubai and is registered in Singapore, according to a statement by the company. Unity Resources was hired by RTI to provide security in Iraq.
 In its statement, Unity Resources said that according to its initial information, the car had approached the convoy ''at speed'' and failed to stop in response to hand signals and a warning flare.
 ''Finally shots were fired at the vehicle and it stopped,'' the company said.
 The episode's connection with the United States Agency for International Development is one of several parallels to the Sept. 16 shootings, in which the Iraqi government says 17 Iraqis died and 27 were wounded.
 The Sept. 16 episode began when a convoy operated by Blackwater USA, an American private security company hired to protect the aid agency's officials, entered Nisour Square in central Baghdad and fired several bullets toward a car the guards apparently considered a threat.
 In the Tuesday shooting, like the one on Sept. 16, the car drifted forward after the initial burst, prompting guards to unleash a barrage of gunfire. And there were no government officials or policy experts in either of the convoys: the Nisour Square convoy was controlling traffic as part of a larger operation, and the convoy in Karada was on a routine movement that involved only security guards, according to American officials.
 Although the United States Embassy in Baghdad has said almost nothing about the Nisour Square episode while an American investigation grinds on, the Iraqi government has said its own investigation concluded that the shootings were an act of ''deliberate murder'' and called on the Blackwater guards to be prosecuted.
 Ali Jafar, a traffic policeman posted near the Karada shooting, said he thought the similarities between the cases were undeniable.
 ''They are killing the people just like what happened in Nisour Square,'' Mr. Jafar said. ''They are butchering the Iraqis.''
 The new shootings happened at an extremely difficult time for the State Department, which relies heavily on Blackwater to protect its diplomats whenever they work outside the fortified Green Zone. As a result of new restrictions placed on Blackwater after the Nisour Square shootings, the State Department's numerous programs for rebuilding Iraqi government and technical institutions have been seriously hampered.
 Embassy officials have vowed to continue their operations even as they increase oversight of Blackwater operations. But Tuesday's episode appears to show that the new oversight comes with many loopholes: Unity Resources is not working directly for the State Department, but for RTI International, which has been contracted by the aid agency to provide experts on local governing.
 In fact, an American Embassy spokesman said, the State Department has no say in the operations of security companies employed by government contractors. ''Their contract might be with A.I.D., but that doesn't shed any light on their choice of security contractor,'' he said. 
 A spokesman for Unity Resources, Martin Simich, said Tuesday that he was unsure whether the guards involved in the shooting had been interviewed by American authorities.
 On Tuesday, the convoy of white S.U.V.'s was stopped in the eastbound lane of Karada Street at an intersection with an alley lined with low concrete homes, witnesses said. A man who works at the plumbing shop, who gave his name only as Muhammad, said the Oldsmobile was approaching the convoy from behind.
 He said he heard no warnings. ''They shot from the back door,'' he said. ''The door opened and they fired.''
 Two witnesses said they heard a single shot first, which apparently punctured the Oldsmobile's radiator, spilling coolant onto the street about 50 yards from where the convoy was parked. As the car continued rolling, the guards opened up with a barrage of sustained automatic fire. The car finally came to a stop about 10 yards from the convoy at a point that, three hours later, was marked by blood stains, broken glass and tufts of brown hair.
 The plumbing shop employee said the convoy moved out right away, without checking to see what damage had been done or to offer medical help.
 The Oldsmobile was towed to a nearby police station.
 The priest and relatives near the scene identified the driver as Maruni Uhanees, 59, and the dead passenger as Jeniva Jalal, 30.
 As twilight set in, family members gathered beside the car in a dirt alley outside the police station, staring at the blood and hair on the inside of the windshield.
 A brother-in-law of the driver, Hrair Vartanian, said Ms. Uhanees was the mother of three grown daughters. As he spoke, one daughter arrived and looked at the blood stains, crying softly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Iraqi boy peered yesterday inside a car that was towed to a Baghdad police station after two women inside were killed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
 An Armenian priest viewed the damaged Oldsmobile yesterday near a police station in Baghdad. Two Armenian Christian women were killed in the car. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FIREARMS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); WITNESSES (73%); POLICE FORCES (70%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); PLUMBING SUPPLY STORES (67%); RELIGION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



173 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Fleeing Rents in Capital, Nonprofits Buy Condos

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Buffeted by steadily rising rents and a shortage of space for midsize offices here, a number of nonprofit organizations in the nation's capital have hit upon a solution to their needs: They are going condo.
 Since July, several nonprofit groups have agreed to buy space in new and renovated office buildings in prime downtown Washington locations; more office condos are on the horizon.
 ''From what I've seen, there's absolutely a pent-up demand for ownership of quality modern office space, which is very hard to find,'' said Eugene J. Kenney, a vice president of Akridge, a Washington real estate firm that has renovated one downtown building to create office condos and is looking to do more. 
 The trend has been abetted by a Washington revenue bond program that allows nonprofits to obtain low-rate financing, typically 2 percentage points below market rates. Interest on these government bonds is tax-exempt, making them attractive to investors. 
 ''It's a fairly new piece of the puzzle,'' said William Liggins, director of Washington's revenue bond program.
 Rents have risen so sharply that some tenants find them prohibitive; this makes office condos increasingly attractive. ''The leasing market is on a 12-year roll, especially the last three years,'' said Geoffrey Kieffer, a broker of leasing services with Woodmark Real Estate Services, a commercial real estate firm. Some buildings have been ''breaking the $70 to 80 per square foot rental barrier'' in terms of annual rent, he said. 
 What is more, blocks of space suitable for small and midsize companies are in short supply. ''There have been no options for 50,000 square feet or smaller,'' Mr. Kieffer said. 
 But now there are. So far this year, five properties in Washington have been converted into office condos or are being transformed. The owners are marketing these spaces heavily to nonprofits, which are a major employer in this city of national associations and lobbying groups.
 ''They typically cannot afford at these prices to buy a whole office building in D.C. but are able to buy maybe a floor or two,'' said Olivia Shay-Byrne, a lawyer who has worked with several nonprofits seeking to buy condos. 
 She said that the city has 1,904 associations, occupying 14.8 million square feet, and that 1,148 of them are in Washington's central business district. 
 Leasing costs were up 6 percent in the second quarter this year from last year, and the average annual rental was $49.77 a square foot, the highest in the Washington metropolitan region, according to a survey by Grubb & Ellis, a national real estate firm.
 Washington officials worry that nonprofits may move to the suburbs, where, according to Neil O. Albert, deputy mayor for planning and economic development, ''rents are cheaper and real estate taxes are not that high.''
 Traditionally, many of these organizations have occupied late 19th-century and early 20th-century brownstones, formerly private mansions, in the Capitol Hill and Dupont Circle neighborhoods. But the impressive staircases of those buildings and other touches redolent of the Gilded Age are not an ideal configuration for a professional office.
 The opportunity to buy an office condo has ''allowed these people to come out of their town house and consolidate onto one floor, with tremendous efficiencies,'' said Aaron Pomerantz, a Washington-based senior vice president of Grub & Ellis.
 The American Educational Research Association has done just that. Two months ago, the 25,000-member association, formed in 1916, bought the top two floors of 1430 K Street NW, a new glass-faced 12-story building. It was the first building to go all-condo in the heart of downtown.
 From the penthouse deck, the association's deputy director, Phoebe H. Stevenson, can look west along K Street, the fabled street of lobbyists. Facing north, she can see the National Cathedral in the distance. 
 The group has had its headquarters since the early 1960s in two adjoining brownstones it owns off Dupont Circle, Ms. Stevenson said. ''As staff size continued to grow, the charm of historical brownstones no longer met our needs for size and functionality,'' she said.
 Now, the association owns nearly 13,000 square feet of Class A office space. There is plenty of room for its staff of 28, and it is even subleasing 1,100 square feet.
 The research group paid $6.8 million for its new offices and spent $1.1 million in preparing the space for occupancy. The group is asking $4.5 million for its two brownstones and is financing its current purchase in full through tax-exempt bonds at a variable rate 1.2 percent below market. ''In the long run, this is tremendous savings for a nonprofit,'' she said.
 Ms. Stevenson shared the good news with her former employer, the 14,600-member American Sociological Association, which is now buying two floors in the same building. The association, founded in 1905, was nearing the end of its lease in an older building and was interested in buying space to house its staff of 30, but not a whole building. 
 ''We didn't have any indication one way or another the rents were going up -- it just looked attractive to purchase,'' said Les Briggs, director for finance. ''We weren't interested in really being landlords. Nor did we have money to afford to purchase a whole building. The notion of condos is very attractive because it allows you to buy and own just what you need.''
 Using Washington's bond financing, the association is putting down $2.3 million and borrowing $7.7 million, to cover the purchase price of $8.2 million for 13,016 square feet -- about $630 a square foot -- and three parking spaces, along with additional build-out costs. The group hopes to close the sale in November and to move into its condo office next February or March.
 Akridge, which bought and renovated 1016 16th Street NW for office condos, has sold out all but the sixth floor, for which it is asking $2.95 million, or $673 a square foot for 4,384 square feet. The Jesuit Conference is the largest purchaser in the building, having acquired 17,500 square feet on four floors for itself and two related organizations at an undisclosed cost. 
 A few blocks west, the National Football League Players Association sold its building at 2021 L Street NW in June for $23.4 million to investors who plan to increase its size to 79,000 square feet, from 54,000, by adding two floors and extending its rear footprint. There are also plans to convert the former United Press International building at 1510 H Street NW into condo offices.
 Other plans are afoot to construct an 11-story all-condo office building at 111 K Street NE, formerly a triangular 7,000-square-foot parking lot near Union Station. 
 Even before ground is broken there, letters of intent have been signed for 90 percent of the building, all from nonprofits, which will be paying up to $650 a square foot, according to Bruce Pascal, the broker for the building. 
 ''This would be first successful preselling of an office condo that hasn't even broken ground yet,'' he said.
 But, he predicted, not the last. ''If you could buy less than a full building and still get ownership benefits, the market would respond to that.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Phoebe Stevenson, top, is deputy director of a research group that bought two floors at 1430 K Street NW in Washington, below left. Olivia Shay-Byrne, above, is a lawyer who helps nonprofits buy condos. The Akridge real estate firm converted 1016 16th Street NW, below right, into office condos. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); LOBBYING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%)

COMPANY: GRUBB & ELLIS CO (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (50%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (50%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



174 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Departures for Other States Erode New Jersey's Economy

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The net number of people leaving New Jersey for other states has more than tripled since 2002, and if the trend continues, the state's total population could dip next year for the first time in decades, researchers at Rutgers University are reporting today. 
 The pattern -- caused in part by the growing number of retirees who move to Sun Belt states, and working families who seek better jobs and cheaper homes in North Carolina, Georgia and other Southern states -- threatens to further erode the state's wobbly economy.
 ''Young families raising children want to live in single-family homes, and that's extraordinarily difficult to do in New Jersey,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers and co-author, with Joseph J. Seneca, of the report, titled ''Where Have All the Dollars Gone? An Analysis of New Jersey Migration Patterns.'' 
 In 2006, 72,547 more people left New Jersey than arrived there, compared with 23,759 in 2002.
 The departures to other states were partly offset by the arrival of immigrants from overseas. But overall, New Jersey's population increased just 0.2 percent last year, making it one of the 10 slowest-growing states in the country.
 From 2000 to 2005, 190,702 residents of New Jersey left for New York, including many empty nesters, people whose children have grown up and moved away. An additional 188,704 people -- including many retirees -- moved to Florida. Pennsylvania received 183,885 New Jersey residents, thanks to cheaper home prices and lower tax rates.
 California, North Carolina, Virginia, Georgia and Texas were next among popular destinations.
 The economic consequences of these departures are profound. The net adjusted gross income of those who left -- total income minus deductions for contributions to retirement accounts and other items -- was nearly $8 billion from 2000 to 2005. The loss of income -- and consumer spending -- led to 38,810 fewer jobs and $85.4 million less in state sales and income taxes.
 While the losses are relatively small, they are ''a permanent loss'' that ''continues (or increases) each year'' until the migration out of the state reverses, the report said.
 Those leaving New Jersey were driven away partly by its high cost of living. The frothy housing market prompted some residents to sell their homes and use the profits to buy homes in less expensive states. The dampening of the housing market in recent months, however, could lead some people to stay.
 Still, many jobs continue to leave New Jersey and take residents with them. Less than 14 percent of the country's pharmaceutical industry jobs are in New Jersey now, down from more than 20 percent in 1990. Since 2003, the highest number of pharmaceutical industry jobs have been in California, with many companies relocating to San Diego, San Francisco and other cities, Dr. Hughes said.
 At the same time, thousands of jobs in the telecommunications industry have disappeared with the breakup and sale of the old long distance carrier AT&T, and the struggles of Lucent, the equipment maker bought by Alcatel of France last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); COST OF LIVING (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HOME PRICES (71%); INCOME TAX (68%); IMMIGRATION (67%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (65%); EMPTY NESTERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



175 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Oil Heat, With 22% Rise, Leads Forecasts for an Expensive Winter

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
After another year of volatile energy prices, American consumers should expect sharply higher heating bills this winter, the government said in a report yesterday. 
 The average spending for households is expected to jump by 10 percent this winter to $977, compared with $889 last year, according to a report by the Energy Information Administration, the forecasting and statistical unit of the Department of Energy. Spending on heating oil is expected to jump 22 percent. 
 Rising global energy prices and an expected colder winter this year accounted for the estimated increases, the energy agency said in its yearly winter price forecast. 
 While some analysts question whether fuel demand will stay high in the face of steeper prices and slowing economic growth, consumers should expect little respite this winter. Costs for all types of energy, like heating oil, propane, natural gas and even electricity, are forecast to go up. 
 Oil and natural gas prices have risen sharply in recent years because of high demand from American and Asian consumers, particularly in China, and supply problems from a raft of producers, including Nigeria, Iraq and Venezuela. Some analysts have also blamed shortfalls in production at domestic refineries for pushing up energy prices. 
 Many oil producers are spending billions of dollars in a rush to bring new supplies to energy-hungry consumers, but energy markets are expected to remain tight in the short term. ''We're still in a constrained world,'' said Guy F. Caruso, the energy agency's administrator.
 Spending on natural gas, which is used by 58 percent of the nation's 108 million households, is expected to increase about 10 percent, compared with last year, with household bills averaging $891. 
 Electricity spending is expected to rise the least. The third of Americans who rely on electricity for heating their homes will see their expenses rise only 4 percent, to $855 a household, this winter. Most of the power generation in the country comes from coal and nuclear energy, and prices for them have not gone up as much as oil and gas.
 The biggest jump in consumer prices this winter is expected for heating oil, which is mostly used in homes in the Northeast. On average, spending for heating oil is expected to jump 22 percent, to an average of $1,785 a household, according to the agency's forecast. Heating oil is used by 7 percent of American households.
 Users of propane, 5 percent of households, will see their bills rise by 16 percent, to $1,570.
 Crude oil prices have been particularly volatile this year. They are up a third since the beginning of the year. After dropping to $50 a barrel in January, they reached $83 a barrel last month. They closed at $80.26 a barrel yesterday, up 1.6 percent, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Natural gas prices have also risen, although not as sharply. Natural gas futures have gained 9 percent since the beginning of the year. They closed at $6.86 per thousand cubic feet yesterday in New York.
 ''Once again, consumers are being whiplashed by spiraling energy costs,'' said Kateri Callahan, president of the Alliance to Save Energy, a consumer advocacy group in Washington. ''The overall trend for the past seven seasons has been up. This is not a good trend for consumers' pocketbooks.''
 Ms. Callahan said consumers could cut their bills through better energy use -- for example, by better insulating homes or installing programmable thermostats. 
 Residential gas prices are expected to average $13.14 per thousand cubic feet this winter, compared with $12.36 last winter, according to the energy agency's forecast. Heating oil prices are expected to rise to $2.88 a gallon, up 16 percent from last year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernie Ryan delivers heating oil for MacFarlane Oil in Newton, Mass. Heating oil is mostly used in homes in the Northeast. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FEIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. C2) Graph: ''Higher Prices to Keep Warm'' Prices for heating oil and natural gas are expected to be higher this year in all regions. (Source: Energy Information Administration) (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEATING OIL (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PROPANE (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); FUTURES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (76%); PROPANE MARKETS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); COAL MARKETS (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



176 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2038 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths VICENTE, HARRIET

 BODY:
 VICENTE--Harriet. The Board of Directors, the Scientific Council members and the staff of NARSAD/The Mental Health Research Association (the world's largest philanthropic organization funding research on the causes, treatments and prevention of mental illnesses) mourn the death of our extraordinary, dedicated board member emeritus. Harriet joined the NARSAD board in 1992 at an early stage of our organization's program of providing research grants for the most promising research in our field. She was an active board member until taking an emeritus role in 2007. She was always a generous donor, providing support for outstanding young scientists engaged in breakthrough research, especially those with important new studies in genetics focused on the causes of severe mental disorders. She became a Research Partner supporting specific young scientists at pivotal moments in their research careers. 
Promising faculty members of Columbia and Rockefeller Universities were beneficiaries of her directed grant support. She particularly supported outstanding research progress in Spain, the homeland of her late husband, the distinguished artist Esteban Vicente. Beyond her financial support to scientists she gave them wise counsel and new opportunities. While serving as a director and an active donor, she also organized and led events to bring information about NARSAD's sponsored new research to her wide circle of acquaintances. She spoke to all enthusiastically against stigma and for possibilities of better treatments and cures for mental illnesses. Harriet Vicente's deep concern for those suffering for mental illness and her ever constructive efforts to help them were admired by all in our organization. We join all who knew her in deep sorrow at her passing. Geoffrey Birkett, President Constance E. Lieber, President Emeritus Herbert Pardes M.D., President of NARSAD Scientific Council Thomas Rabaut, Chairman 
 VICENTE--Harriet, in her 87th year, died peacefully on October 4 from a cerebral hemorrhage. Harriet was born on April 6, 1921, in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, the elder daughter of Philip and Eva (Goell) Godfrey. She is survived by her sister, Ellen Marquis of San Francisco, her niece Tessa (Michael Brown), her nephew David (Beth), her great-nieces and nephews Nathaniel and Michael Leeds (Kiren) and Sophia Lee, the children of her deceased niece Lisa Lee (Arthur), and Mina Ebtehadj Marquis. An insatiable traveler since early childhood trips to Europe with her parents, with deep engagement during her adult years in a broad range of activities in, among other places, Spain, Israel and Turkey as well as in the United States, Harriet remained throughout her life an unabashedly enthusiastic New Yorker. Harriet's involvement in the art world began in the late 1940s when she and her then husband, Donald Peters (deceased 1960) became investors in the Samuel M. Kootz Gallery and assembled a notable collection of the then emerging New York school of abstract expressionist artists and European masters represented by Kootz. In 1958, while working as a volunteer in the Leo Castelli Gallery, she was introduced to Esteban Vicente who was having a show of his drawings at the gallery. In 1961, a year after her husband's death, she and Esteban were married. A committed Zionist since youth, Harriet, under the auspices of the Jerusalem Foundation, sponsored two projects with the aim of promoting peace between the Jewish and Arab communities. In 1980, she sponsored a playground in memory of her late daughter, Alison Peters, on the boundary between the two communities to provide a safe place for Arab and Jewish children to come together to play. A month before her death, Harriet provided additional funding to restore and enhance the park and provide for its future upkeep. Since 2003, Harriet has also sponsored the Independent Skills Program for young Arab women at the Beit David Community Center, located in the Arab Wadi Joz neighborhood of Jerusalem. Harriet was a founding member and on the Executive Board of the Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine which celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2004. From 1992 until her retirement to Emeritus status in 2006, Harriet served as a board member of NARSAD, The Mental Health Research Association, which is the world's largest nongovernmental agency funding research on the causes, treatment and prevention of mental illness, including schizophrenia, depression and a range of other serious neuropsychiatric disorders. Long interested in developing ties with Spain, in 1997 Harriet supported a NARSAD Young Investigators Award to Dr. Enrique Baca - Garcia, a young Spanish researcher who went on to become one of the most influential persons in introducing advanced psychiatric knowledge and treatment to the Iberian Peninsula. Last year, she provided support for Dr. Garcia's sabbatical year spent at the Columbia University Department of Psychiatry in New York updating his knowledge of cutting-edge methodologies to take back to his university in Madrid. In 1998, Harriet was instrumental in the founding by the Province of Segovia of the Esteban Vicente Museum of Contemporary Art in Segovia, Spain, Esteban's birthplace. The museum and community center was made possible by the joint gift of Harriet and Esteban of 150 of Vicente's works. Harriet was Honorary President of the museum whose governing board is a consortium of public officials from the national, regional, provincial and city governments, as well as corporate and private members. The regional government of Castile-Leon has recently funded a major expansion of the museum in connection with which Harriet undertook to provide the annual operating budget of the new addition. In 1999, the King of Spain awarded Harriet, together with Esteban, the Gran Cruz de la Orden de Alfonso X el Sabio (Grand Cross of Alfonso the Wise), a decoration established in 1902 to honor extraordinary contributions by Spaniards or foreigners to Spanish education, science, culture and research. In 2000, Harriet endowed an annual Vicente fellowship to enable mid-career Spanish artists to live and work at Yaddo, the artists' community in Saratoga Springs, New York. In 2002, Harriet joined The Rockefeller University Council, the University's most distinguished group of benefactors and friends, where she established the Esteban Vicente Postdoctoral Fellowship for young investigators in the field of mental illness. She has also been a generous supporter of the University's Women & Science initiative. In 2006 Harriet was instrumental in the creation in P.S. 170 of an in-school and after-school program of music and art. P.S. 170 is an early childhood public school in the South Bronx with a predominantly Hispanic population. By a vote of the parents, the name of the school has been changed to the Esteban Vicente School, with the purpose of encouraging identification of the students with a highly successful and distinguished Hispanic artist. In accordance with Harriet's wishes, her ashes will be buried, beside those of Esteban, in the garden of the Vicente museum in Segovia on a date to be determined. The interment will be open to any who may wish to attend. A memorial will be held in New York also at a later date. Contributions in Harriet's honor may be made to NARSAD at 60 Cutter Mill Road, Great Neck, NY 11021 or to the Harriet and Esteban Vicente Foundation at 501 Fifth Avenue, Suite 1803, New York, NY 10017. 
 VICENTE--Harriet. To the students, staff and parents of The Esteban Vicente School, Harriet was an inspiring presence and a true believer in the power of art to inspire and motivate children. When PS 170, an Early Childhood School in the South Bronx, voted in 2006 to change its name to The Esteban Vicente School, Mrs. Vicente responded. She was instrumental in helping us further her husband's legacy and support our mission to educate children both academically and creatively. Mrs. Vicente shared her energy and belief in art's transformative power with our children and inspired them to think of art as an essential part of their lives. Thanks to her generous support, The Esteban Vicente School now offers yearlong dance, visual arts, songwriting and music programs for all children. Our community will always fondly remember our abuela, Harriet Vicente. The Students, Staff and Parents of The Esteban Vicente School 
 VICENTE--Harriet. The Board of Directors of the Esteban Vicente Museum of Contemporary Art deeply regrets the loss of its Honorary President, Harriet Vicente. Her kindness, enthusiasm and experience in the art world were as valuable as her economic support. We, who had the pleasure and honor of meeting her either in business meetings or informal situations want to emphasize her genius in identifying priorities and challenges. Especially interested in education, she often expressed her desire to strengthen that area in our institution. Her constant aim was to insure that the youngest children could gain access to the art world and, on the other hand that the artists could work with both passion and means. Regarding the latter, we must remember her biannual sponsorship of a Yaddo fellowship, which allowed a Spanish artist to spend a month in an extraordinary residency for creators. We are indebted to her for her joint donation, with Esteban Vicente, of 152 works for the permanent collection of the museum, as well as the subsequent donations she made of other works by Esteban plus his personal library. Above all, we are indebted to her for her generous sponsorship of the museum, undoubtedly the most important cultural institution in Castile Leon. For these contributions, among others, in 1999 she was awarded the Gran Cruz de la Orden de Alfonso X. Her indefatigable dedication to the arts, her personal charm and her loyalty to the museum, in addition to an innate intelligence that had not decreased with the passage of years, make her departure especially sad. Therefore, we want to join in their sorrow all those who enjoyed her friendship, love and generosity. Javier Santamara, Pres. Provincial Council of Segovia Pedro Arahuetes, Mayor, City of Segovia Jos Jimnez, Ministry of Culture Mara Jos Salgueiro, Minister of Culture of Castile Leon Manuel Escribano Soto, Director de Caja de Ahorros de Segovia Jos Antonio Lopez, CEO, Iberpistas, S.A Carlos Mara Martnez, Director, Caja de Madrid Ambassador Jos Luis Pardos Fernando Escard Elvira Gonzalez Jos Mara Parreo, Director of the Museum Atilano Soto, Founder President of the Museum 
 VICENTE--Harriet. The Rockefeller University deeply mourns the loss of Harriet Vicente, a cherished member of The Rockefeller University Council. We are fortunate to have known this warm and generous - hearted woman. Harriet embraced the research of scientists working at the frontiers of biomedicine by establishing the Esteban Vicente Postdoctoral Fellowship for talented young investigators conducting research related to mental illness. A tireless ambassador and advocate for Rockefeller, she was also a generous supporter of the University's Women & Science initiative. We celebrate Harriet's keen intellect, her wit, and her great generosity, and compassion for artists in all walks of life. Harriet believed that scientists are creative individuals, and she was attracted by the University's commitment to nurturing scientific creativity and its integration of the arts and humanities with science. In 2003, Harriet Vicente donated to the University a vibrant abstract painting entitled Tremor by her late husband, Esteban Vicente. Given on the 100th anniversary of Esteban Vicente's birth, Tremor will be a permanent reminder to the University community of this unique and remarkable woman, and her intrepid and ever - fascinating journey through life. Harriet, herself, was an artist at friendships. She will be greatly missed by the Rockefeller community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family and all who loved her. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Richard Furlaud, Chairman Emeritus and Council Chair Paul Nurse, President Torsten Wiesel, President Emeritus Marnie Imhoff, Vice President The Rockefeller University 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); MENTAL ILLNESS (91%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); CHARITIES (77%); BOARD CHANGES (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); CHILDREN (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



177 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Takeover Deals Suggest Buyout Market Remains Active

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
The buyout firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and the electric equipment distributor Sonepar of France were among companies that announced takeovers on Tuesday, indicating that the buyout market is still alive despite dire warnings by some analysts that merger activity would cool after this summer's turmoil in the credit markets. 
 Companies announced at least four bids, with a combined value of more than $13 billion. The value of global mergers and acquisitions has reached a total of $3.85 trillion this year, up from $2.81 trillion in the period a year earlier, according to Dealogic.
 Sonepar, which distributes sockets and switches, offered to buy a Dutch rival, Hagemeyer, for 2.51 billion euros ($3.5 billion). The offer could start a bidding war, as the market leader, Rexel of France, said it was considering its options in light of the Sonepar bid. 
 K.K.R. agreed to buy a privately owned Turkish shipping company, U.N. Ro-Ro Isletmeleri, for 910 million euros ($1.29 billion). The takeover is the largest by a buyout firm of a company in Turkey, where the economy has grown by an annual average around 7 percent for the last 22 quarters and which is eager to join the European Union. 
 The announced deals, though small in size compared with multibillion-dollar transactions announced earlier in the year, like K.K.R.'s acquisition of First Data, show that private equity firms are still able to raise money for takeovers and that confidence among chief executives to conclude deals remains strong. 
 ''Private equity activity will be limited to small and medium-size deals and teaming up with partners,'' said Tom Burnett, director of research at Wall Street Access in New York. Lending has been somewhat ''turned off,'' he said, adding that while private equity will move to the sidelines, corporate activity will drive mergers and acquisitions.
 Private equity firms have been involved in the biggest takeovers over the last 12 months as low interest rates made it cheap for them to borrow money for acquisitions, while rising returns on their investments gave them the ability to raise record amounts from their investors. 
 But the turmoil in the credit markets in July and August, caused by losses from investments in securities linked to United States subprime mortgages, made investors risk-averse and dried up leveraged lending. Investment banks sat on billions of dollars in loans they had difficulty selling.
 The deals on Tuesday also included the acquisition of Southern Water Capital, a British company, by a group of investors led by JPMorgan Chase for $:1.3 billion ($2.7 billion). 
 Also, Italy's biggest energy company, Eni, offered to buy Burren Energy of Britain for about $:1.5 billion ($3.05 billion) in cash to gain production in the Congo Republic and Turkmenistan. Burren rejected the offer as too low and said that Eni's was not the only approach it had received. The shares jumped as investors expected someone to come forward with a higher bid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (92%); TAKEOVERS (91%); MERGERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); EURO (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (64%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (93%); SONEPAR DISTRIBUTION SA (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); ENI SPA (80%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); ENI (BIT) (80%); E (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS423610 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT, WIRING SUPPLIES & RELATED EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (90%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (92%); TURKEY (91%); EUROPE (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



178 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: In Debate Reviews, Thompson Survives

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Based on the previews of Tuesday's Republican presidential debate, it seemed much of the wise-guy set was expecting the newcomer, former Senator Fred D. Thompson, to star in the political equivalent of a Nascar wreck. 
 Such were the expectations created by Mr. Thompson's early reviews on the stump. He has been panned as ill prepared, uninterested and lazy.
 ''All he has to do is not fall asleep,'' the columnist Roger Simon wrote of Mr. Thompson in Tuesday's edition of the Politico, a political Web site. ''All he has to do is not throw up.''
 And upset of upsets -- Mr. Thompson did not throw up, fall asleep or, for that matter, drool (another stated benchmark).
 Plus, he even knew who the leader of Canada was. ''Harper,'' Mr. Thompson answered confidently in response to a potential gotcha from Chris Matthews of MSNBC.
 ''Prime Minister Harper,'' Mr. Thompson added for good measure, as if hoping for extra credit for ''prime minister.''
 It was a nothing exchange, except that Mr. Thompson's campaign might never have recovered had he answered it wrong.
 ''I see no reason to think we're headed for an economic downturn,'' Mr. Thompson said in his first answer of the afternoon, in response to a question about the health of the economy. It was clear enough, except that Mr. Thompson paused for an uncomfortable three seconds between the ''for'' and the ''economic downturn,'' as if he was tripping over a line and was expecting a director to jump in for a re-take.
 In time, Mr. Thompson sounded increasingly practiced and prepared, as if he had pulled a series of all-nighters in preparation for his coming-out role. He exuded a certain joylessness for much of the proceeding, speaking in a solemn monotone and almost never smiling. It was as if he were taking an oral examination, and in a sense he was.
 Upon completing his first answer, the camera caught Mr. Thompson taking a deep breath, in a discernable look of relief.
 At debate's end, Maria Bartiromo of CNBC asked Mr. Thompson whether he regretted waiting so long to get in. No, he said, with a rare grin.
 ''I've enjoyed watching these fellows,'' he said. ''I've got to admit, it was getting a little boring without me. But I'm glad to be here now.'' 
 The hall filled with laughter and applause. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); WRITERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

PERSON: MARIA BARTIROMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



179 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Atop G.O.P., It's Always Sunny

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
 The Republican presidential candidates came here yesterday -- to the state with the highest unemployment rate in the nation -- for a debate on the economy. If there is a better place than Dearborn to talk about Americans' economic anxiety, it's not obvious. 
 Sure enough, Maria Bartiromo of CNBC began the debate by mentioning a recent poll in which two-thirds of Americans said the economy was either in a recession or headed toward one. She then asked Fred Thompson, the center of everyone's attention because this was his first debate, whether he agreed. 
 ''I think there is no reason to believe that we're headed for a recession,'' Mr. Thompson said, before ticking off a list of good news: 22 straight quarters of economic growth, low inflation, low unemployment, a rising stock market.
 Rudy Giuliani and Mitt Romney, the other two candidates atop the Iowa and New Hampshire polls, offered a similarly upbeat message. Mr. Romney mentioned Michigan's ''one-state recession,'' but he said that if Republicans wanted to regain voters' trust on the economy, they had to avoid doom and gloom. When Mr. Giuliani was asked about the billions of dollars being made by private equity firms, he replied, ''Well, I mean, the market is a wonderful thing.'' Thanks to the free market, he added, ''the sky's the limit.''
 After losing the midterm elections last year, the Republicans had a chance to recalibrate their sunny economic picture they have been offering since 2002. It now seems clear that they're not going to do so. They are going to run on the same economic themes they have been running on (if not always governing by) for decades: low taxes, fiscal discipline, less regulation, free trade. They're still going to cast government -- not globalization, not technological change or anything else in the private sector -- as the main problem.
 It's just as clear that Democrats think that the political game has changed. Pay for most workers has been growing only a little faster than inflation over the last five years, and except for the late 1990s hasn't really done well since the early 1970s. Inequality has returned to the levels of the 1920s.
 ''It's an economy that demands more from our workers and gives less in return,'' Hillary Clinton said in Iowa this week, on her Middle Class Express bus tour. As Charles Schumer, New York's other senator, told me earlier this year: ''In the past, the attitude was, 'Get government out of the way.' And now it's, 'Gee, I may need it.' ''
 I have no idea which party's reading of the national mood will turn out to be right because there is a pretty good argument to be made on either side. 
 As the Republicans well know, populism hasn't been a winning political strategy in this country for a long time. And the current state of the economy is hardly miserable. Wages for rank-and-file workers may be growing slowly, but they did hit an inflation-adjusted record last month. In the most recent CBS News poll, 50 percent of respondents said the economy was very good or fairly good, while 47 percent said it was very bad or fairly bad. 
 But as Ms. Bartiromo's opening question suggested, a lot of Americans also think that the situation is getting worse. People are clearly nervous about the future. 
 A few Republicans did talk about this anxiety in Michigan yesterday, but not the ones likely to be accepting the nomination next summer. There is a useful way, in fact, to distinguish between the front-running Republicans and those at the back of the primary pack. Just listen to how upbeat they are about the economy. 
 Representative Ron Paul, the libertarian doctor from Texas whose poll numbers are far down in the single digits, said during this first answer that ''this country is in the middle of a recession for a lot of people.'' Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, even resorted to what many Republicans would call class warfare, by pointing out that the typical chief executive was now making 500 times as much as the typical worker. 
 ''Most of us here today, probably every one of us, are living better than we ever dreamed we would when we were kids,'' Mr. Huckabee said. ''But when I ask the question how many of you think your kids and grandkids are going to be living better than you, rarely does a hand go up.''
 Somewhere between Mr. Huckabee and the three front-runners -- Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Romney and Mr. Thompson -- is John McCain, who's trying to claw his way back into the top tier of candidates. He seems to have decided that the front-runners' upbeat message has given him an opening. 
 Before the debate, Mr. McCain gave a breakfast speech at a Marriott in downtown Detroit that contained the outlines of what could be a Republican response to middle-class anxiety. ''Globalization is here, globalization is an opportunity, but globalization will not automatically benefit every American,'' Mr. McCain said. 
 Besides tax reform and spending cuts, he also called for an overhaul of unemployment benefits and retraining programs so that they would better serve people out of work for long periods. He also talked about introducing more competition into the public school system, and he promised to unveil a health care plan. It's hardly a complete program at this point, but it has a unifying theme: a middle ground between tax cutting and big new government programs.
 ''We're no longer running as a party to eliminate government,'' Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a McCain adviser and former head of the Congressional Budget Office, told me. ''But we haven't been coherent on how we want to use it.''
 If the McCain campaign starts to catch fire -- or if the economy takes a turn for the worse -- you could imagine that the other Republicans would change their economic tune. Mr. Romney, for instance, might spend more time talking about his plan to exempt everyone making less than $200,000 from paying taxes on their investments, an idea he didn't even mention in Dearborn.
 But barring a big change, the economic debate of the 2008 presidential campaign will probably not turn on who the nominees are. Instead, the campaign will be a contest between one party that thinks Ronald Reagan's strategy still works and another that thinks the Reagan playbook is finally outdated.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sam Brownback, Senator from Kansas
Rudolph W. Giuliani, Former mayor of New York City
Mike Huckabee, Former governor of Arkansas
Duncan Hunter, Representative from California
John McCain, Senator from Arizona
Ron Paul, Representative from Texas
Mitt Romney, Former governor of Massachusetts
Tom Tancredo, Representative from Colorado
Fred Thompson, Actor
 former senator from Tennessee (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); GLOBALIZATION (62%)

COMPANY: SKY'S THE LIMIT (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (66%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); FRED THOMPSON (88%); RUDY GIULIANI (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); DUNCAN HUNTER (58%); RON PAUL (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); THOMAS G TANCREDO (58%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MARIA BARTIROMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



180 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: An Israeli Strike On Syria Kindles Debate in the U.S.

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
A sharp debate is under way in the Bush administration about the significance of the Israeli intelligence that led to last month's Israeli strike inside Syria, according to current and former American government officials.
 At issue is whether intelligence that Israel presented months ago to the White House -- to support claims that Syria had begun early work on what could become a nuclear weapons program with help from North Korea -- was conclusive enough to justify military action by Israel and a possible rethinking of American policy toward the two nations. 
 The debate has fractured along now-familiar fault lines, with Vice President Dick Cheney and conservative hawks in the administration portraying the Israeli intelligence as credible and arguing that it should cause the United States to reconsider its diplomatic overtures to Syria and North Korea. 
 By contrast, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and her allies within the administration have said they do not believe that the intelligence presented so far merits any change in the American diplomatic approach.
 ''Some people think that it means that the sky is falling,'' a senior administration official said. ''Others say that they're not convinced that the real intelligence poses a threat.'' 
 Several current and former officials, as well as outside experts, spoke on the condition of anonymity because the intelligence surrounding the Israeli strike remains highly classified. 
 Besides Ms. Rice, officials said that Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates was cautious about fully endorsing Israeli warnings that Syria was on a path that could lead to a nuclear weapon. Others in the Bush administration remain unconvinced that a nascent Syrian nuclear program could pose an immediate threat.
 It has long been known that North Korean scientists have aided Damascus in developing sophisticated ballistic missile technology, and there appears to be little debate that North Koreans frequently visited a site in the Syrian desert that Israeli jets attacked Sept. 6. Where officials disagree is whether the accumulated evidence points to a Syrian nuclear program that poses a significant threat to the Middle East. 
 Mr. Cheney and his allies have expressed unease at the decision last week by President Bush and Ms. Rice to proceed with an agreement to supply North Korea with economic aid in return for the North's disabling its nuclear reactor. Those officials argued that the Israeli intelligence demonstrates that North Korea cannot be trusted. They also argue that the United States should be prepared to scuttle the agreement unless North Korea admits to its dealing with the Syrians. 
 During a breakfast meeting on Oct. 2 at the White House, Ms. Rice and her chief North Korea negotiator, Christopher R. Hill, made the case to President Bush that the United States faced a choice: to continue with the nuclear pact with North Korea as a way to bring the secretive country back into the diplomatic fold and give it the incentive to stop proliferating nuclear material; or to return to the administration's previous strategy of isolation, which detractors say left North Korea to its own devices and led it to test a nuclear device last October.
 Mr. Cheney and Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, also attended the meeting, administration officials said. 
 The Israeli strike occurred at a particularly delicate time for American diplomatic efforts. In addition to the North Korean nuclear negotiations, the White House is also trying to engineer a regional Middle East peace conference that would work toward a comprehensive peace accord between Arabs and Israelis. 
 The current and former American officials said Israel presented the United States with intelligence over the summer about what it described as nuclear activity in Syria. Officials have said Israel told the White House shortly in advance of the September raid that it was prepared to carry it out, but it is not clear whether the White House took a position then about whether the attack was justified.
 One former top Bush administration official said Israeli officials were so concerned about the threat posed by a potential Syrian nuclear program that they told the White House they could not wait past the end of the summer to strike the facility. 
 Last week, Turkish officials traveled to Damascus to present the Syrian government with the Israeli dossier on what was believed to be a Syrian nuclear program, according to a Middle East security analyst in Washington. The analyst said that Syrian officials vigorously denied the intelligence and said that what the Israelis hit was a storage depot for strategic missiles.
 That denial followed a similar denial from North Korea. Mr. Hill, the State Department's assistant secretary for East Asia and Pacific affairs, raised the Syria issue with his North Korean counterparts in talks in Beijing in late September. The North Koreans denied providing any nuclear material to Syria.
 Publicly, Syrian officials have said Israeli jets hit an empty warehouse. 
 Bruce Riedel, a veteran of the C.I.A. and the National Security Council and now a Middle East expert at the Brookings Institution, said that American intelligence agencies remained cautious in drawing hard conclusions about the significance of the suspicious activity at the Syrian site. 
 Still, Mr. Riedel said Israel would not have launched the strike in Syria if it believed Damascus was merely developing more sophisticated ballistic missiles or chemical weapons. 
 ''Those red lines were crossed 20 years ago,'' he said. ''You don't risk general war in the Middle East over an extra 100 kilometers' range on a missile system.''
 Another former intelligence official said Syria was attempting to develop so-called airburst capability for its ballistic missiles. Such technology would allow Syria to detonate warheads in the air to disperse the warhead's material more widely. 
 Since North Korea detonated its nuclear device, Ms. Rice has prodded Mr. Bush toward a more diplomatic approach with North Korea, through talks that also include Japan, Russia, South Korea and China. Those talks led to the initial agreement last February for North Korea to shut down its nuclear reactor in exchange for fuel and food aid.
 That deal angered conservatives who believed that the Bush administration had made diplomacy toward North Korea too high a priority, at the expense of efforts to combat the spread of illicit weapons in the Middle East. 
 ''Opposing the Israeli strike to protect the six-party talks would be a breathtaking repudiation of the administration's own national security strategy,'' said John R. Bolton, former United States ambassador to the United Nations. 
 But other current and former officials argue that the diplomatic approach is America's best option for dealing with the question of North Korean proliferation.
 ''You can't just make these decisions using the top of your spinal cord, you have to use the whole brain,'' said Philip D. Zelikow, the former counselor at the State Department. ''What other policy are we going to pursue that we think would be better?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A familiar administration divide: Vice President Dick Cheney says Israeli intelligence was credible
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice questions whether there was a real threat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); DICK CHENEY (77%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



181 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Bomb, Bomb Iran

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
Hillary seemed rattled.
 Up until now, she has displayed remarkable imperturbability -- gliding along with the help of good lighting, a hearty guffaw and a clever husband.
 But on Sunday in New Hampton, Iowa, Hillary lost her cool at last. Sparring with a voter on Iran, she sounded defensive and paranoid.
 A Democrat, Randall Rolph, asked Senator Clinton why he should back her when she did not learn her lesson after voting to authorize W. to use force in Iraq. He did not understand how she could have voted yea to urge W. to label Iran's Revolutionary Guard a terrorist organization, possibly setting the stage for more Cheney chicanery. 
 Hillary said that ''labeling them a terrorist organization gives us the authority to impose sanctions on their leadership. ...I consider that part of a very robust diplomatic effort.''
 Fearful that her questioner was an enemy spy creeping into her perfect little world, she suggested that he had been put up to the question and did not have his information right.
 ''I take exception,'' Mr. Rolph insisted. ''This is my own research. ... I'm offended that you would suggest that.'' 
 Hillary apologized and said that she had been asked ''the very same question in three other places.'' She explained that she had signed on to a rewritten version of the amendment that did not, as he claimed, give a green light for combat.
 In the original ''sense of Senate on Iran'' document, sponsored by Joe Lieberman and the Republican Jon Kyl last month, there was a paragraph that supported ''the prudent and calibrated use of all instruments of United States national power in Iraq, including diplomatic, economic, intelligence and military instruments, in support of the policy with respect to'' Iran. That original draft, called ''tantamount to a declaration of war'' and ''Dick Cheney's fondest pipe dream'' by Senator Jim Webb of Virginia, was softened.
 Even so, Joe Biden and Chris Dodd voted no, and Barack Obama would have voted no if he had voted.
 If you know the dingbat vice president is agitating for a conflict with Iran, if you know that Condi is chasing after Cheney with a butterfly net on Iran and Syria, if you know you can't believe anything this administration says, why vote to give them more backing on their dysfunctional Middle East policy? 
 The schism in the administration is deepening in a way that should alarm Hillary. Mark Mazzetti and Helene Cooper report in today's Times that Cheney and his hawks are arguing that the Israeli intelligence about Syria's nascent nuclear capabilities that led to last month's Israeli strike on Syria was credible and should dictate a harsher policy toward Syria and North Korea, while Condi, Bob Gates and calmer heads ''did not believe the intelligence presented so far merits any change in the American diplomatic approach.''
 Hillary's hawkish Iran vote was an ill-advised move, especially given her private view that Cheney is untrustworthy and given Sy Hersh's New Yorker report claiming that Cheney had pushed to devise a plan to attack the Revolutionary Guard facilities in Iran. 
 She made a course correction on Oct. 1, co-sponsoring legislation introduced by Mr. Webb to prohibit the use of funds for military operations against Iran without explicit Congressional authorization.
 Her opponents have sounded the fool-me-once-shame-on-you, fool-me-twice-shame-on-me drumbeat. Obama chided Hillary for her willingness ''to once again extend to the president the benefit of the doubt.'' John Edwards wondered if in ''six months from now he goes to war in Iran, are we going to hear her once again say if only I had known then what I know now?''
 When Hillary voted to let W. use force in Iraq, she didn't even read the intelligence estimate. She wasn't trying to do the right thing. She was trying to do the opportunistic thing. She felt she could not run for president, as a woman, if she played the peacenik.
 By throwing in with Joe Lieberman and the conservative hawks on the Iranian Revolutionary Guard issue, she once more overcompensated in a cynical way. She'd like to paint Obama as the weak reed who wants to cozy up to dictators, while she's the one who will play tough. It was odd, given her success in the debates conveying the sense that she is the manliest candidate among the Democrats, that she felt the need to man-up on Iran. 
 But maybe she knows that Rudy will hurl thunderbolts at her, as he did in the debate yesterday, suggesting that she doesn't have the guts to use a military option to stop Iran from going nuclear. 
 Voters seem more concerned with Hillary's political expediency -- which the vote underscored -- than with her ability to be manly.
 Her camp seems to think her vote was a safe one because W. and Cheney do not have the time or support to bomb Iran, and that Bob Gates can stop it. But she may be underestimating W. and Cheney. She should be at least as paranoid about that pair as she was about an Iowa Democrat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (68%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); JON KYL (56%); JOE BIDEN (56%); JOE LIEBERMAN (56%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (56%); JIM WEBB (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SYRIA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



182 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Affects a Strong Silence on Its Weak Currency

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

 BODY:
The dollar is near record lows against the euro and has weakened considerably against several other major currencies, but officials in Washington are reacting with almost contented silence. 
 Less than two weeks before finance ministers from the Group of 7 leading industrial nations are to meet to discuss economic policy, European officials are grumbling about the weakened dollar because it makes American exports cheaper in world markets.
 Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, reiterated on Monday that he was paying ''great attention'' -- a week ago he spoke of his ''extreme attention'' -- to American statements in support of a ''strong dollar.'' 
 But while the mantra of the Bush administration remains that a ''strong dollar is in our nation's interest,'' that formulation has not changed in the last five years as the dollar gradually lost about a third of its value against the euro. 
 On Tuesday, the euro settled in New York at a rate of $1.4098 -- slightly below its record high a few days ago. In January 2002, the euro was worth around 86 cents.
 Indeed, when the dollar's slide accelerated after the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates on Sept. 18, American officials barely even repeated the strong-dollar formulation.
 ''They don't really care what the dollar does, at least within a fairly wide range,'' said Adam S. Posen, deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''What the U.S. government cares about above all is that the changes are orderly.'' 
 Since the dollar began declining again three weeks ago, the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., has mentioned a strong dollar only once -- on Sept. 21, in a trip to Canada, just as the American currency was dropping to parity against the Canadian dollar for the first time in three decades. Yesterday, the Canadian dollar settled at $1.0169.
 ''I feel very strongly that a strong dollar is in our nation's interest,'' Mr. Paulson said then, ''and we believe that currency values should be set in a competitive marketplace based on underlying economic fundamentals.'' In practice, analysts said, the administration's position has effectively been that a strong dollar is whatever value the foreign exchange markets settle on.
 By contrast, Mr. Paulson has repeatedly expressed satisfaction that American exports have climbed by about 15 percent in the last year, a trend that has been helped by the weaker dollar. 
 Analysts see little mystery in the American position: at the moment, a weaker dollar offers more benefits than a stronger one. The cheaper dollar offers a lift to American exporters by making their products competitive in many parts of the world. And while a weak dollar usually makes imports expensive, import prices have so far climbed less than other currencies' values because foreign producers have kept prices low to preserve market share in the United States.
 ''Implicitly, Paulson and the Federal Reserve are happy with a gradual fall in the value of the dollar,'' said Nouriel Roubini, an economist at New York University. ''They'll never say they favor a weak dollar, but the benefits to the U.S. in terms of competitiveness are significant.''
 Though Mr. Paulson has primary responsibility for American exchange rate policy, Federal Reserve officials have also made it clear that they are not worried about imminent inflationary dangers from a weaker dollar.
 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, recently told a Congressional hearing that the dollar's value remains strong in other ways. ''The value of the currency can also be expressed in terms of what it can buy in domestic goods -- the domestic inflation rate,'' Mr. Bernanke said in response to questions about the dollar from Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas and a long-shot candidate for the Republican presidential nomination. Noting that inflation remains low, Mr. Bernanke suggested that the dollar's weakness was not a source of concern to the Fed.
 Democratic lawmakers, who have been quick to attack the Bush administration about most other economic policies, have said almost nothing about the currency's decline.
 To at least some European officials, worried that the soaring value of the euro will hurt European exports, the American silence has been thunderous.
 ''I would like very much to hear U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson repeat loud and clear that a strong dollar is good for the American economy,'' said Christine Lagarde, France's finance minister, in an interview last week with a business newspaper, Les Echos.
 Mr. Paulson has yet to respond. So European officials have resorted to reminding him about the one statement he did make. ''We agree with Mr. Paulson,'' said Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez, governor of the Bank of Spain and a board member of the European Central Bank. 
 Yet even as European and American officials warily circle each other on the currency, a bigger issue for both the United States and Europe is China, which continues to tether the yuan closely to the dollar as its trade surplus swells further.
 To keep the yuan from rising beyond a relatively narrow range, China's central bank has stepped up its already huge purchases of dollar-denominated securities. According to recent data, China's foreign reserves have been climbing at a pace of $40 billion a month -- twice as fast as last year. 
 That has kept the dollar artificially elevated against the yuan, but made Chinese products even cheaper in Europe than they would be otherwise.
 In recent days, European officials like Mr. Trichet have begun to focus more on demands that China allow its currency to float more freely. That would be in line with longstanding efforts by the United States. But thus far, those efforts have had very limited effect on Chinese policy.

GRAPHIC: Graph: The dollar has fallen against other major currencies since the beginning of the year. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); EURO (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); TRENDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); IMPORT PRICES (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (77%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



183 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: 4 Democrats Leave Michigan's Early Primary; Clinton and Dodd Stay In

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Four Democratic presidential candidates announced yesterday that they would not take part in the Democratic primary in Michigan, all but ceding the contest in that major state to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who is ahead in the polls there and is staying in. 
 ''We don't think it's necessary to remove ourselves from the ballot,'' said Jay Carson, a Clinton spokesman.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut also said he would stay on the Michigan ballot.
 But former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico and Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware said yesterday, the deadline for withdrawing from the ballot, that they would sit out the race.
 The Democrats have been under tremendous pressure from Iowa and New Hampshire not to campaign in Michigan and Florida, which have violated party rules by moving up their primaries -- Michigan to Jan. 15 and Florida to Jan. 29 -- ahead of Feb. 5, when many other populous states vote. 
 Iowa and New Hampshire, as well as South Carolina and Nevada, are furious with Michigan and Florida, saying those two states have forced them to move their own voting dates up even earlier because they want to maintain their primacy in the nominating contests.
 Michigan, in particular, has been seething for years that small states like Iowa and New Hampshire have had too big a role in shaping the presidential nominations, saying they are not representative of the country.
 The candidates have been caught in this interstate feuding, prompting some to pull out of Michigan despite its importance in the general election.
 David E. Bonior, the campaign manager for Mr. Edwards -- and a former congressman from Michigan -- explained Mr. Edwards's withdrawal by defending the retail politics required in small states.
 ''In these early states, issues matter more than money, celebrity and advertisements,'' Mr. Bonior said in a statement. Repeating a line of attack Mr. Edwards uses against Mrs. Clinton, he added, ''Voters want and deserve a candidate who represents real people, not corporate special interests.''
 Mrs. Clinton's advisers said it would be foolish to rebuff an important swing state, especially since doing so could alienate Democratic-leaning independents who could be favoring her. But she is also taking a risk that staying in Michigan will not hurt her in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina. Those states, all sanctioned by the Democratic National Committee to vote first, forced the Democratic candidates to sign a pledge not to campaign in Michigan and Florida. Clinton advisers said that even though she was staying in the Michigan race, she would not campaign there.
 Debbie Dingell, a major Clinton backer in Michigan, said on MSNBC that she was ''furious'' with the other candidates. Their absence will diminish Michigan's importance in the primary process and probably deny her state attention from the candidates and the news media. Michigan has the nation's highest unemployment rate and has been eager for a spotlight on its woes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (96%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (78%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



184 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Romney and Giuliani Spar as New Guy Looks On

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and MARC SANTORA. 
Adam Nagourney reported from Washington, and Marc Santora from Dearborn, Mich.

 BODY:
Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York and Mitt Romney of Massachusetts tangled over taxes and government spending yesterday as the Republican presidential candidates debated in Michigan, highlighting the way in which their increasingly fierce confrontation is starting to dominate the race for their party's nomination.
 The debate also marked the debut of Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee alongside his Republican rivals. Mr. Thompson often appeared unsmiling and less practiced than the eight others onstage with him, who had already met five times before yesterday. But he avoided any notable missteps and held his own on substantive exchanges over the economy and foreign policy. 
 Mr. Thompson often found himself a bystander as Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Romney attacked each another -- or, just as frequently, went after Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, reflecting Republicans' expectation of a general election contest against Mrs. Clinton, who is leading in polls of the Democratic candidates. 
 Mr. Giuliani, a former New York mayor, and Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, employed a blizzard of often-conflicting statistics as they sought to undercut each other's records on cutting taxes or spending. But most of all, they clashed over a line-item veto that Mr. Romney said was essential to reducing spending in Washington and that Mr. Giuliani challenged successfully in the Supreme Court. 
 It was an argument that offered a clear difference of opinion on an issue that is central to many economic conservatives in the party, and also reflected a continuing effort by Mr. Giuliani to raise questions about Mr. Romney's candor and character.
 ''You have to be honest with people, and you can't fool all of the people all of the time: the line-item veto is unconstitutional,'' Mr. Giuliani said, his comments directed at Mr. Romney.
 He added: ''The Supreme Court has ruled on it. So you can bang your head up against a stone wall all you want.''
 Mr. Giuliani asserted that per capita taxes and spending under Mr. Romney had increased while per capita taxes and spending under him as mayor had fallen.
 ''I led; he lagged,'' Mr. Giuliani said to an audience in Dearborn, Mich., at a debate sponsored by CNBC, MSNBC and The Wall Street Journal.
 Mr. Romney responded sharply. ''It's a nice line, but it's baloney,'' he said, adding, ''I did not increase taxes in Massachusetts. I lowered taxes.''
 He added: ''Look, we're both guys that are in favor of keeping spending down and keeping taxes down, we are not far apart on that. The place we differ is on the line-item veto.''
 The debate took place hours after public disclosure of remarks by Dan Bartlett, a former top aide to President Bush, that were critical of most of the Republican candidates and seemed to reflect a broad sense of unease within the party about its prospects of holding onto the White House.
 For all the anticipation that preceded Mr. Thompson's appearance, his rivals barely mentioned him, reflecting in part a sense within the party that his first weeks as an official candidate had not gone well. (Though Mr. Giuliani's campaign dispatched a ''not for attribution'' e-mail message to reporters arguing that Mr. Thompson had, as a member of the Senate in 2001, been part of a coalition that sought to decrease the size of tax cuts proposed by Mr. Bush.)
 Although the first question at the debate and many others were intended for the new candidate, Mr. Thompson, speaking softly, did not seek to engage his rivals or challenge anything they said. But as he stood on stage, his campaign sent out a stream of statements by e-mail that sought to rebut Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Romney.
 The debate put on clear display differences on the economy, trade and presidential power. Mr. Thompson suggested that concerns about the economy were largely unfounded, even as he warned that the nation's long-term economic health was at risk because of increased spending on Social Security and Medicare as the population ages.
 ''If you look at the short term, it's rosy,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''I think if you look at a 10-year projection, it's rosy. But we are spending money we do not have.''
 But Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas, suggested that the warm view of the economy might be jarring to many Americans watching the debate. 
 ''They're going to hear Republicans on this stage talk about how great the economy is, and, frankly, when they hear that, they're going to probably reach for the dial,'' Mr. Huckabee said. 
 The leading contenders offered tough if slightly measured responses when asked if they would take military action without consulting Congress to stop Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. But Mr. Romney, the first to answer, seemed caught off guard.
 ''We're going to let the lawyers sort out what he needed to do and what he didn't need to do, but certainly what you want to do is to have the agreement of all the people in leadership of our government, as well as our friends around the world where those circumstances are available,'' Mr. Romney said. 
 There has long been a debate about whether presidents are bound by the provisions of the War Powers Act of 1973 that require consultation with and approval from Congress to involve the United States in hostilities.
 Senator John McCain of Arizona said he would take action without going to Congress first, ''if the situation is that it requires immediate action to ensure the security of the United States of America.''
 ''That's what you take your oath to do when you're inaugurated as president,'' Mr. McCain said.
 But, he said, with an evolving threat ''of course you want to go to Congress; of course you want to get approval if this is an imminent threat to the security of the United States of America.'' 
 Representative Ron Paul of Texas said he would absolutely consult Congress and belittled Mr. Romney's answer. ''This idea of going and talking to attorneys totally baffles me,'' Mr. Paul said. ''Why don't we just open up the Constitution and read it? You're not allowed to go to war without a declaration of war.''
 The candidates, who have typically been challenged by voters concerned about what they describe as the threat of China and trade deals, differed on the extent to which the United States should move away from measures to encourage trade.
 Representative Duncan Hunter of California raised the concern in sharp terms, arguing that ''1.8 million jobs have moved to communist China from the United States.'' 
 Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Thompson, Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney said they would be uncomfortable with any move to embrace aggressively protectionist policies that would limit trade with China. 
 Mr. Romney was sharpest in attacking Mr. Giuliani for efforts against the line-item veto. ''Mayor Giuliani took the line-item that the president had all the way to the Supreme Court and took it away from the president of the United States,'' he said. ''I think that was a mistake.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney, left, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, after dominating the Republican debate in Dearborn, Mich., yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) (pg. A1)
 Fred D. Thompson, center, joined rivals for his first debate, at the Ford Community and Performing Arts Center. He held his own on the economy -- though when he called the outlook rosy, another candidate, Mike Huckabee, said viewers were ''going to probably reach for the dial.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM PIDGEON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); VETO (89%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



185 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: The Justice Looks Back And Settles Old Scores

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
MY GRANDFATHER'S SON
 A Memoir
 By Clarence Thomas
 Illustrated. 289 pages. Harper. $26.95.
 Soon after the future Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas entered the first grade, his destitute mother made a momentous decision. Unable to provide for her two sons, she sent them to live with her parents, who owned a small house in the black section of Savannah., Ga. There they were greeted by Myers Anderson, known to his grandchildren as Daddy, who announced brusquely, ''The damn vacation is over.'' 
 It sure was. Daddy, a firm believer in tough love, imposed his version of martial law immediately. Children were expected to rise early, work hard and keep their opinions to themselves. No whining, no excuses, no back talk. If they kept to the program, they just might end up in what Daddy called ''a coat-and-tie job.'' 
 ''Once, years later, I got up the nerve to tell him that slavery was over,'' Justice Thomas writes. 
 ''Not in my house,'' his grandfather snapped back. 
 The Jehovah-like Daddy dominates the early chapters of ''My Grandfather's Son,'' Justice Thomas's selectively revealing, often harshly self-critical memoir. It's a strange hybrid. The book begins as a moving evocation of a difficult childhood in the Deep South and, as Justice Thomas works his way though college and law school, takes on the outlines of an inspirational American success story. 
 The tone changes when Justice Thomas, fed up with liberal policies on race, accepts Ronald Reagan's invitation to run the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, becoming an object of contempt and derision for mainstream civil rights organizations. Justice Thomas, recounting his years in government, adopts a defensive crouch, lashing out at his enemies, reopening old wounds and itemizing insults that should be forgotten. 
 All is prelude to the turbulent confirmation hearings for his appointment to the Supreme Court. Justice Thomas revisits this painful episode, fresh in his memory, and picks apart the charges leveled against him by Anita Hill, his former employee at the commission, in an earnest but ultimately pointless effort to set the record straight and settle some scores along the way. 
 Here, emotions get the better of him, as he portrays himself as a persecuted, almost Christlike figure singled out by the liberal establishment, at the behest of his civil rights enemies, not just for criticism but also for total annihilation. You wonder if, when writing these fiery chapters, Justice Thomas recalled his own admiring words about his grandfather. 
 ''Despite the hardships he had faced, there was no bitterness or self-pity in his heart,'' he writes in an early chapter. In this respect Justice Thomas is not his grandfather's son. 
 His critics might not be moved by his political arguments, but his memoir gives them a man, not a caricature, to attack. Justice Thomas faced enormous obstacles in life. His deadbeat father, referred to only as C, abandoned his family to a life of poverty so extreme that the children did not put sugar on their cereal. Daddy, whose small fuel-oil business provided a modest income, sent Clarence to Catholic schools, but the harsh racial environment in Georgia put enormous pressure on black children trying to move further than their parents. 
 As one of only two black students at his seminary school, Justice Thomas experienced panic, followed by ''a constant state of controlled anxiety.'' The fear of failure haunted him in a way that no white child could understand, or black parents either, accustomed to living behind the walls of segregation that were now falling down. 
 ''We had always believed that we could do as well as whites if we were only given a fair shake -- but what if it turned out that we weren't good enough after all?'' he writes. 
 A fierce sense of discipline and a belief in hard work carried him from one academic triumph to another, culminating in a law degree from Yale, a university he grew to despise for reasons not altogether clear. Along the way he grew an Afro and embraced radical politics. ''The more injustice I saw, the angrier I became, and the angrier I became, the more injustice I saw,'' he writes. 
 What changed was his analysis of who was to blame. Deeply disturbed by the court-ordered busing of black children to white schools, he came to the conclusion that liberal policies on race, especially welfare and affirmative action, were harming rather than helping blacks.
 Justice Thomas describes his intellectual journey, and his struggle to keep body and soul together on meager government pay, in some of the book's most absorbing and self-critical chapters. He regretted his early marriage, but for years could not bring himself to end the relationship and abandon his young son as his own father had. (Eventually he did.) He began drinking heavily. His finances were a shambles. At one point a rental-car clerk, after calling Sears for confirmation, cut up his credit card in front of him. 
 This is the vulnerable figure his enemies could not see, Justice Thomas complains, ''an ordinary person who, like most people, had worked out his problems step by unsure step.'' 
 At the same time, influenced by thinkers like the free-market economist Thomas Sowell, he began questioning government intervention as a way to improve the lot of black Americans. Like his grandfather, he came to regard welfare as the ''ruination'' of blacks, embracing instead a philosophy of total self-reliance. 
 This ideological shift set him on a collision course with traditional civil rights groups and, he argues, poisoned the atmosphere around his court appointment. His refusal to accept ''the liberal pieties that had done so much damage to blacks in America,'' he writes, ''meant that I had to be destroyed.''
 Throughout his life Justice Thomas has met adversity with angry defiance and iron resolve. Waking up with a hangover one day, he took the last two beers from his refrigerator, drank them while taking a hot bath and ended his career as a drinker there and then. When he looked in the mirror and decided he was out of shape, he vowed to run a marathon in 100 days, which he did, in fast time. Overcoming any obstacle, he writes, is ''a question of will.'' 
 In this vein, he writes of overcoming his initial reluctance to accept the first President Bush's invitation to join the Supreme Court, an offer he reacted to viscerally: ''I felt sick.'' He recovered. 
 ''Neither then nor at any other time did it occur to me that I could not do the work of a Supreme Court justice,'' he writes with characteristic aplomb. For that self-confidence, there is one person to thank, his grandfather, and Justice Thomas does, in words of one syllable.
 ''What I am,'' he writes, ''is what he made me.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Books of The Times review on Wednesday, about ''My Grandfather's Son,'' a memoir by Justice Clarence Thomas, referred imprecisely to his actions regarding his first marriage. While he did eventually end it, he did not also abandon his son.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clarence Thomas (PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDY SNYDER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. E9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDPARENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); LAWYERS (74%); LIBERALISM (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%)

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: My Grandfather's Son (Book)>; My Grandfather's Son (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



186 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Merger for SABMiller and Molson Coors

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
After years of pummeling each other, Coors and Miller are getting hitched.
 SABMiller and the Molson Coors Brewing Company, the nation's No. 2 and No. 3 brewers, said yesterday that they would merge their operations in the United States and Puerto Rico, a move that Wall Street analysts have long expected.
 The joint venture, to be known as MillerCoors, would have $6.6 billion in annual sales and eventually result in $500 million in annual cost savings, the companies estimated. It will also become a more formidable No. 2 challenger to the Anheuser-Busch Companies, which has long dominated the American market. 
 Peter H. Coors, vice chairman of Molson Coors, said the transaction was prompted by ''profound'' changes in the American alcohol business that are challenging large beer companies. Sales of domestic beers have been battered as consumers switched to wine, spirits and craft beers and imports.
 Besides cost savings, the merger will create a strong portfolio of brands, from domestic brews like Coors Light and Milwaukee's Best to import beers like Leinenkugel's, Peroni and Molson Canadian.
 ''This makes us a much more capable competitor up against the really changing landscape,'' said W. Leo Kiely III, chief executive of Molson Coors. ''It is clear Miller and Coors will be a stronger, more competitive U.S. brewer than either company can be on its own.''
 Mr. Kiely will become chief executive of the joint venture. Mr. Coors will be chairman.
 Shares of Molson Coors soared after the announcement, closing at $56.15, up 10.5 percent. SABMiller shares rose 1.4 percent in London trading. Anheuser-Busch shares fell almost 1 percent, to $51.57.
 The merger does not include SABMiller's large international operations nor the Molson Coors business in Canada.
 ''It's going to give them substantially more scale, which helps them with their retailers and their distributors and helps erode Anheuser Busch's No. 1 competitive advantage, which is their 50 share,'' said Kaumil S. Gajrawala, an analyst at UBS Securities.
 The joint operation will control about 29 percent of the American market, compared with 49 percent for Anheuser-Busch, analysts said.
 Tom Pirko, president of the beverage consulting firm Bevmark, said the merger might not be easy to pull off because federal regulators, who will review the deal, might balk. After the merger, two entities -- Anheuser-Busch and MillerCoors -- are to control about 80 percent of the market.
 ''What does the consumer get out of this? Less selection and probably higher prices,'' Mr. Pirko said, adding that the pricing dynamic in beer has been driven by ''hellacious'' competition among the three competitors. ''People are sailing along blindly, thinking that this is going to be easy.''
 SABMiller will have a 58 percent economic stake in the joint venture, compared with Molson Coors's 42 percent interest, but both companies will have 50 percent voting interest.
 The estimated cost savings will result from streamlining production, reducing shipping distances and eliminating duplication in marketing and corporate functions. While SABMiller and Molson Coors currently compete against each other, Graham Mackay, chief executive of SABMiller, said the companies' geographical strengths complement each other, with Miller being particularly strong in the middle of the country, and Coors in the West and Northeast.
 SABMiller was created in 2002 when SAB, with roots in South Africa, acquired 100 percent of the Miller Brewing Company. Similarly, Molson Coors was created in 2005 when Molson, a Canadian company, merged with the Adolph Coors Company.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 11, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about the merger of the American operations of SABMiller and Molson Coors Brewing Company referred incorrectly to the brewing of Leinenkugel's beer. It is made in Wisconsin; it is not imported.

GRAPHIC: Photo: W. Leo Kiely III, left, chief executive of Molson Coors
Peter H. Coors, vice chairman of Molson Coors
 and Tom Long, chief executive of the Miller Brewing Company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (91%); MERGERS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BREWERIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); BEVERAGE PRICES (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%)

COMPANY: MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (96%); SABMILLER PLC (92%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (94%)

TICKER: TAP (NYSE) (96%); SOSAB (JSE) (92%); SAB (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (96%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (96%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (96%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (94%)

PERSON: W LEO KIELY III (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); PUERTO RICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



187 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Rodriguez's Agent Votes for Free Agency

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

 BODY:
A clubhouse attendant packed the belongings from Alex Rodriguez's locker into cardboard boxes yesterday, in what may have been a sign that Rodriguez did not plan to visit Yankee Stadium anytime soon. He may never return as a member of the Yankees because he seems sure to exercise the opt-out clause in his contract.
 While the agent Scott Boras did not specifically say that Rodriguez would opt out with three years left on his 10-year, $252 million contract, he suggested that becoming a free agent again would be his client's savviest choice. 
 ''When the arbitrator gave free agency to baseball, is there anyone in baseball who the free-agent right meant more to than Alex Rodriguez?'' Boras said yesterday. ''Not with his last contract, but right now, now more than any point in history.''
 Since Boras feels that Rodriguez's looming free agency is more valuable than any other player's, he will undoubtedly recommend that Rodriguez, 32, forgo the potential $91 million left on his deal. Boras would not estimate what Rodriguez could make on the open market, but it is believed that Boras could seek a 10-year contract for $300 million for his client. 
 The Yankees have the exclusive rights to negotiate with Rodriguez until 10 days after the World Series, but Boras's remarks make it appear improbable that there will be substantive discussions. If Rodriguez opts out, the Rangers, who owe about $21 million as part of the trade that sent him to New York in 2004, would pay him nothing. The Yankees have said that if Rodriguez chooses to become a free agent, they would pass on trying to retain him. 
 ''If he opts out, we'd be out then,'' General Manager Brian Cashman said. ''That would be my strong recommendation.''
 Cashman said that the Yankees' stance could change because there would be ''more people involved in the process.'' He could have been referring to George Steinbrenner, the team's principal owner, who recently told The Record of Hackensack, N.J., that he wanted to keep Rodriguez. Still, if Rodriguez opts out, Yankees officials have said they think he will sign elsewhere and do not want to partake in talks to increase his price tag. 
 ''I just think, you have a chance to retain the player prior to that date, and to do it after that doesn't make as much sense,'' Cashman said. ''It becomes a different economic animal.''
 Boras is primed for a run at another landmark contract. He would not comment on the possibility that the Yankees could lose the benefit of Texas's payment, but it will not have an impact Rodriguez's thinking.
 What is Rodriguez thinking? He had bloodshot eyes Monday night after the Yankees' 6-4 loss to Cleveland ended their season. Rodriguez would not say if he had wept because he might have played his last game with the Yankees. 
 ''I've always said it: I love New York,'' Rodriguez said. ''For me, as a player, to come full circle in New York, it's the most comfortable I've felt. Hopefully, things work out.''
 Boras was aware of what Rodriguez said about New York, but noted that he had other options. The Angels, the Cubs, the Red Sox, the White Sox, the Dodgers and the Mets are teams that could pursue Rodriguez. 
 ''I think Alex has been through free agency before, and I think he's shown he's very comfortable in New York,'' Boras said. ''But he also knows there are a lot of dynamics that have to happen for things to work out.''
 During a telephone interview, Boras offered a glimpse into how he will market Rodriguez to teams by calling him an I.P.N. player. Boras's acronym refers to Rodriguez's iconic value, his performance value and his network value.
 Despite Rodriguez's modest performance (4 for 15, one homer) against Cleveland, his value as a performer is unquestioned. He hit 54 homers, drove in 156 runs, scored 143 runs and batted .314 this season. Boras said only five players had produced 299 or more runs in a season, including Babe Ruth.
 ''Babe Ruth did it twice,'' Boras said. ''Alex already has done it at 31, so he has a lot of time to surpass that.''
 Regarding iconic value, Boras noted how attendance at Yankee Stadium had increased in each of Rodriguez's four seasons with the Yankees. The Yankees drew about 3.5 million fans in 2003, the year before Rodriguez arrived, and attracted nearly 4.3 million this season. Rodriguez is a part of that surge, but not the only reason for it.
 ''It's a situation where the brand is different because of the athlete,'' Boras said. ''The franchise is at its highest value.'' 
 As Boras negotiated with Texas on Rodriguez's $252 million deal, which he signed after the 2000 season, he said the reason he wanted an opt-out clause after seven years was because he expected that regional sports networks would prosper and would increase revenue streams for teams. The YES Network, which televises Yankees games, was worth about $800 million when it started in 2002. It is now worth $3 billion. 
 Lee Berke, an industry analyst, said that a team with a regional sports network could increase revenue by adding a star like Rodriguez. ''A-Rod would be a contributing factor,'' Berke said. ''He wouldn't be the only reason that an R.S.N. succeeds or fails.''
 If Rodriguez does not opt out, he could become a free agent after the 2008 season, when he would earn $27 million, unless the Yankees bumped his salary to $32 million for 2009 and 2010. There is no guarantee that Rodriguez will stay with the Yankees, but there is a guarantee that a rich man will became richer.
 ''I hear people say, 'Boras is the guy taking it to the owners,''' Boras said. ''This is about fairness. This player is in a unique place and a unique situation. He's got to get a unique salary.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alex Rodriguez in the ninth inning Monday night after what might have been his final at-bat with the Yankees. If he opts out of his contract, the Yankees will most likely not be in the bidding for his services. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK RANGERS (54%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); TEXAS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007



188 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 794 words

BYLINE: By

 BODY:
PICKETS, THEN A PROPOSAL 
 Six hours after union leaders sent Chrysler's 45,000 workers to the picket lines, the United Automobile Workers and the automaker announced a tentative agreement. The terms are expected to echo the contract that was hammered out by the union and General Motors after a two-day walkout last month. 
 CAVITIES GOING UNTREATED The percentage of Americans with untreated cavities began rising this decade, reversing a half-century trend of improvement in dental health. The change comes as most dentists require customers to pay cash or have private insurance, and they do not accept Medicaid patients. Meanwhile, dentists' fees are rising far faster than inflation. [A1.] 
 LEARNING FROM JAPAN Lawmakers and regulators in Washington have begun looking at how Japan ensures the safety of its imports from China, particularly food. [C1.] 
 A Michigan pension fund filed a shareholder suit against Mattel, asserting that a mishandling of product safety procedures caused three toy recalls. [C4.] 
 STOCK SALE INQUIRY SOUGHT 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission has been asked to investigate stock sales made by Angelo R. Mozilo, chief executive of the mortgage lender Countrywide Financial, in the months before its shares plummeted amid the deepening mortgage crisis. [C1.] 
 PANEL CLEARS NEW STENT A federal advisory panel unanimously recommended that regulators approve a new drug-coated heart stent made by Medtronic. [C3.] 
 immigration rule suspended 
 A federal judge ordered an indefinite delay on a central measure of the Bush administration's strategy to curb illegal immigration: a rule requiring employers to fire workers if their Social Security numbers can not be verified within three months. [A1.] 
 CLEARING THE AIR Senator Charles E. Schumer, who is trying to untangle New York's skies, will call on federal authorities to convene a meeting of airlines to coordinate schedule cuts and renegotiate agreements with the Pentagon about civilian use of military airspace. [C3.] 
 GIANT HOTEL FOR ATLANTIC CITY MGM Mirage, the gambling giant, announced plans to build a huge resort hotel in Atlantic City. At a cost of $4.5 billion to $5 billion, it would rank among the most expensive casino projects in history. [C3.] 
 DEBATING MORTGAGE RELIEF House Democrats squared off against the Bush administration over measures to help homeowners trapped in a vise of unaffordable subprime mortgages and falling home prices. [C3.] 
 SIGN OF EXPANDED PRODUCTION Sales at United States wholesalers outpaced inventories in August, a sign that manufacturers were poised to expand production and help the economy avoid an economic slump. [C8.] 
 MEDIA SEEKING RELEVANCE Several traditional media companies are taking part in Design Happening, a week of events promoting design and architecture in New York City. One of their goals is making properties like magazines more relevant as digital media grow in importance. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C6.] 
 CADBURY PLANS A SPINOFF London-based Cadbury Schweppes, ending months of speculation about the future of its United States beverage business, announcing that it would spin off the maker of Snapple and Dr Pepper rather than sell it. [C4.]
 DREAMLINERS WILL ARRIVE LATE The Boeing Company said that it was delaying the initial deliveries of the 787 Dreamliner jet by six months, to late 2008, because of ''continued challenges'' in assembling the first of the planes. The announcement sent Boeing's stock below the $100-a-share mark. [C1.] 
 MADONNA MAY QUIT LABEL Madonna is about to become the latest music superstar to defy the music industry's traditional structure by exiting her longtime record label, Warner Brothers Records, for a lucrative deal with Live Nation, the concert promoter. [C13.] 
 ENDLESS SUMMER CAMP More and more summer sleep-away camps are extending their seasons, sprucing up the cabins and expanding the recreational offerings in order to stay open longer, sometimes all year. Small Business. [C9.] 
 FORECASTS UPEND MARKETS 
 The Dow and Standard & Poor's 500 fell after Boeing said it expected a delay in deliveries of its Dreamliner jet and early corporate results prompted concern about the outlook for profits. The Nasdaq was up slightly. [C8.] 
 AMERICAN FURNITURE'S STATUS The newly affluent in China, Russia, India and the United Arab Emirates have embraced a surprising status symbol: American-made furniture. The overseas market is one of the furniture industry's few bright spots. [F1.] 
 CONSEQUENCES OF BIOFUEL Greater cultivation of crops to produce ethanol could harm water quality and leave some regions of the United States with water shortages, a panel of experts convened by the National Research Council is reporting. [A24.] 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); ORAL HEALTH (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (75%); MEDICAID (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); TOYS & GAMES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CASINOS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (70%); PRODUCT RECALLS (68%); JUDGES (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); IMMIGRATION (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (65%); RESORTS (65%); AIRLINES (62%); HOME PRICES (60%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (58%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (53%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%)

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (64%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); MEDTRONIC INC (54%); CADBURY LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (64%); GM (NYSE) (58%); MDT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (64%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (50%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (51%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



189 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: In Britain, Pressing Hedge Funds For Clarity

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Hedge funds should disclose indirect investments in companies and do a better job of informing clients and banks about the risks they take, a working group made up of fund executives suggested on Wednesday in an attempt to appease critics, who had called for more transparency and government regulation. 
 Andrew Large, a former Bank of England deputy governor who works for a London hedge fund and led the working group, said he hoped that the initiative would create a standard that hedge funds would obey or risk losing clients. 
 The group included 14 executives of hedge funds, including GLG Partners, Cheyne Capital, Man Group, Och-Ziff Capital Management and Gartmore.
 The attempt to set up a disclosure standard has been applauded by some, including the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, who had said the best approach was for hedge funds to regulate themselves and increase disclosure rather than face more regulation. Others, including Paul Kenny, general secretary of Britain's GMB union and a critic of hedge funds, called the effort window dressing and said the government should not let the industry govern itself. 
 The rules would apply to hedge fund managers doing business in Britain and would be voluntary. But Mr. Large said he hoped a customer's decision to invest would be influenced by whether a hedge fund complied with the best practices.
 ''Disclosure gives investors and stakeholders the information they need to make better-informed decisions,'' said Mr. Large, who heads a fund investing in funds managed by Marshall Wace. ''We make no pretense in reinventing the wheel, and most hedge funds are already following these best practices, but there will be a leveling up to the highest standards.''
 Calls for industry regulation have gained momentum since the beginning of the year. Germany's finance minister, Peer Steinbruck, warned that some hedge funds engaged in risky trades financed by heavy borrowing and could easily face losses. 
 Hedge funds have moved into the spotlight because of their rapid growth and as an increasing number of pension funds invest through them. More than 9,000 hedge funds had an estimated $1.5 trillion under management at the end of 2006, according to International Financial Services London. About 65 percent of the money is being managed by funds in America while Britain accounts for about 20 percent. In 1996, only 130 hedge funds were operating.
 Mr. Large's group also suggested that hedge funds give more information about themselves on their Web sites and that more facts about the industry be made available.
 Hedge fund managers should also adopt a system to value their assets properly, make that valuation process more transparent and tell investors about any assets that are difficult to value, the group suggested. Managers also should disclose any conflict of interest in that valuation process, it added.
 Moreover, regulators should require all investors to disclose whether they are holding an indirect stake in a company through derivatives, the group said, and hedge funds should not vote with borrowed shares or where they have no underlying economic interest.
 Hedge fund managers should also develop an approach to deal with risk to be able to ''cope with unexpected events and stresses,'' the group suggested.
 Absolute Capital Management, a hedge fund based in London, in September had to temporarily freeze withdrawals from eight funds managing more than $2.1 billion because customers tried to remove millions of dollars after a co-founder, Florian Homm, quit citing a disagreement over bonuses. 
 The working group, which also included Michael Cohen, a managing partner of Och-Ziff Capital; Man Group's deputy chairman, Stanley Fink; and Manny Roman, co-chief executive of GLG, will accept responses to the suggestions until Dec. 14 and issue a final report in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BEST PRACTICES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%)

COMPANY: OCH-ZIFF CAPITAL MANAGEMENT GROUP LLC (71%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); MAN GROUP PLC (57%)

TICKER: OZM (NYSE) (71%); EMG (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (53%); PEER STEINBRUECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



190 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; PERSONAL BEST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Running Efficiency: It's Good, but How Do You Get It?

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
IN her prime, Joan Benoit Samuelson, one of the best female distance runners, should have been faster than Alberto Salazar, one of the best male distance runners.
 Ms. Samuelson's running was beautifully smooth. Mr. Salazar's was not. 
 ''He looked terrible,'' said Jack Daniels, an exercise physiologist at the Center for High Altitude Training at Northern Arizona University, who studied both runners in the 1980's. ''She looked great.''
 Not only that but Ms. Samuelson also had an amazing ability to use oxygen to fuel her body, Dr. Daniels said. Even though women's maximum oxygen consumption, or VO2 max, is typically lower than that of men, hers was as high as Mr. Salazar's. Maximum oxygen consumption was often considered one of the best predictors of performance in distance events.
 But Mr. Salazar always ran faster than Ms. Samuelson. The difference between them turned out to be one of the least understood and most mythologized aspects of performance: economy of motion. It's the relationship between how much energy you expend and how fast you go. 
 ''How much is it costing you to run 10 miles an hour?'' Dr. Daniels asked. ''If it costs you less than it costs someone else, you are more economical.''
 Mr. Salazar, despite his less than classic running style, expended less energy when he ran. So when he and Ms. Samuelson put out the same effort, he ran faster.
 Economy can make the difference between being fast and being slow, between winning and losing in swimming to skiing, cycling to speed skating, running to rowing. 
 But economy is baffling. It seems to be physiological, but it is not clear what exactly is involved. Is it an ability of muscles to use energy, an ability to use a variety of muscles in concert, an ability of nerves to activate certain muscles for a task while allowing other muscles to relax, an ability of nerves to fire in near-perfect patterns? Or is it all of these things in combination?
 While many exercise physiologists believe, or hope, that economy improves with training, they confess that it's not clear what kind of training or how much it takes to make a difference.
 They know that standard training programs, which emphasize speed and distance, improve the other key factors in performance: VO2 max and the anaerobic, or lactate, threshold, an indicator of how intensely a person can exercise. 
 But economy is more of a mystery. In fact, there are only a few documented cases of athletes whose economy improved. One was Paula Radcliffe, the British marathoner. Every year for 11 years, starting in 1992, she increased her running economy by about 1 to 3 percent. In the end, she ran 40 seconds to a minute faster per mile, without changing how much oxygen she took in. 
 Then there was Lance Armstrong, studied by Edward Coyle, an exercise physiologist at the University of Texas, Austin. Over seven years from age 21 to 28, Mr. Armstrong gained about 1 percent a year in efficiency. 
 And there was Steve Scott, a runner who broke the American record for the mile in 1982. In just 18 weeks of intense training, he improved his running economy by 5 percent, said Gary S. Krahenbuhl, an exercise physiologist at Arizona State University. Mr. Scott's improved economy allowed him to run faster than the previous mile record holder, Jim Ryun -- the two runners were essentially equal in all other physiological measures, Dr. Krahenbuhl said. 
 But, Dr. Coyle said, ''whether an average person running an hour a day would experience the same benefit is the million-dollar question.''
 Researchers are finding that easy assumptions about exercise economy just don't hold up under rigorous study.
 Take the idea that you can tell who is an economical runner or cyclist by watching the person perform. Not true, researchers say. The only way to know is with tests in a lab.
 Dr. Daniels showed this in a study in which he videotaped runners. Then he sent the videos to coaches and biomechanics experts, and asked which were the more economical runners.
 ''They couldn't tell, no way at all,'' he said.
 But can runners become more economical if they change their form? The surprising answer seems to be no, said Dr. Krahenbuhl. In fact, he said, every study that asked what happened after runners changed their natural form found that running economy declined.
 It may take a long time for a change of form to result in better economy, Dr. Daniels suggested. 
 But it also may be that changing your form will never help you. Coaches often tell athletes to work on their form to become more economical, Dr. Daniels said. ''But what they are really saying is, 'We will work on your technique to make you look more like I think you should look,''' he added.
 Maybe economical runners or cyclists or swimmers are simply gifted in general, researchers speculated. Perhaps whatever these athletes turn to, they will be economical.
 That, Dr. Daniels discovered, is not true. 
 He recently studied runners and measured their economy when they ran. Then he measured it when they cycled, when they walked uphill at three different inclines on a treadmill, when they stepped up and down on a step, and when they cranked an ergometer with their arms. There was no relationship between being economical at one activity and being economical at another.
 Still, there are a few tricks for novices, said Dr. Daniels. Most runners, he said, naturally fall into their most economical stride. But some bound along or, at the other extreme, take too many little steps. After studying hundreds of runners, Dr. Daniels discovered that taking 180 steps a minute made the most of energy expended. 
 Dr. Coyle finds that the most economical cyclists have an abundance of a particular type of muscle fiber, so-called slow twitch. It is not known whether other types of muscle can convert to slow twitch with training. But, he said, it may be that after years of training, nerves are directed to allow more leg muscles to participate in pedaling. The result might be greater riding economy.
 ''You might wind up changing the way your neuromuscular system is wired,'' Dr. Coyle said. ''It is a controversial area, but it makes sense.'' 
 With swimmers, Dr. Coyle said, speed depends a great deal on technique, which can improve to a certain extent with coaching and training. Swimmers must overcome the drag of the water, and anything that interrupts the fluid dynamics of their motion will cause them to decelerate.
 But physiological economy can also have a huge effect in swimming. Dr. Daniels studied a woman who won an Olympic gold medal even though her VO2 max was only average for a recreational athlete and was very low for an elite athlete. Her gift? She wasted little energy, and that skill more than compensated. 
 No one has rigorously studied swimmers and documented that training improves economy. But exercise physiologists note that competitive swimmers practice for hours a day, even though their races last just minutes.
 ''Some physiologists say, 'Look you don't need to do that,''' Dr. Coyle said. ''But the athletes think it is beneficial.'' The reason, he suspects, is that all that training is needed to improve economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FORM: In theory, Joan Benoit Samuelson should have outrun him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY DUFFY/ALLSPORT)
 FUNCTION: Alberto Salazar's style was less than classical, but effective. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNNING (92%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (87%); WINTER SPORTS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); SKIING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHERN ARIZONA UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



191 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Ciprianis Avoid Prison Time and Are Allowed, for Now, to Keep Liquor Licenses

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
The father and son team who run the opulent Cipriani restaurants in Venice and New York avoided prison time and the automatic forfeiture of the company's liquor licenses, which could have shut down their New York restaurants, as they were sentenced yesterday after their guilty pleas this summer on charges of tax evasion.
 In a hearing in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, in which neither man said a word, Arrigo Cipriani, 75, the patriarch of the family, was sentenced to conditional discharge for three years without being supervised by the Department of Probation, according to a plea agreement with the Manhattan district attorney's office. The conditional discharge means he is free to return to Italy, where he lives and where his father opened Harry's Bar in Venice in 1931. 
 Under the agreement, he pleaded guilty in July to one felony count of violating the tax law, which could have resulted in up to four years in prison.
 His son, Giuseppe, 42, was sentenced to three years' probation after pleading guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the tax law, which could have brought up to a year in jail.
 Both men, who are Italian citizens, according to their lawyer, and three Cipriani business entities agreed to pay $10 million in outstanding state and city taxes and other penalties. The business entities also pleaded guilty, through their lawyer, to a felony tax charge.
 Under state law, someone convicted of a felony is barred from certain civic rights and privileges like voting or holding various licenses, including a liquor license.
 But in a condition of the plea deal, Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, agreed not to oppose the Ciprianis' requests for what are called certificates of relief from civil disabilities for the father, the son and the three corporations. Those certificates allow them to keep their liquor licenses, and Justice John Cataldo approved five such certificates yesterday.
 That is no guarantee, however, that the State Liquor Authority will not take action on its own to revoke the licenses. A spokesman for the authority, William Crowley, said yesterday that the authority was investigating the Cipriani licenses. He said the authority was considering whether the ''underlying conduct'' involved in the felony conviction showed that the Ciprianis and their companies lacked the moral character needed for a license.
 He said the authority was also looking at why Arrigo Cipriani's name was not on the licenses. ''Anybody with a financial interest or who can make day-to-day managerial decisions should be on the license,'' Mr. Crowley said. 
 Chris Giglio, a spokesman for the Ciprianis, said they had begun what he called settlement talks with the Liquor Authority. A lawyer for Cipriani, Warren B. Pesetsky, said he hoped any actions by the authority would not involve revoking the liquor license. ''Hopefully, it will be just fines,'' he said. ''They're not going to disappear, but I would like to believe and do believe that ultimately it won't involve anybody losing a license.'' 
 Some legal experts said yesterday that retaining their liquor licenses through the certificates of relief was a major coup for the Ciprianis and their lawyers. 
 ''Really? That's amazing,'' Leonard Fogelman, a lawyer who often practices before the Liquor Authority, said when told about the certificates. ''To be convicted of a rather serious felony charge and then obtain a certificate of relief takes some doing.''
 Stanley S. Arkin, a lawyer for the Ciprianis, bristled at any implication that the Ciprianis had received favorable treatment. ''I don't think light's a nice word,'' Mr. Arkin said. ''It's a wonderful business. We got to a point where there were some tax issues, and we've resolved them all. We're paying a lot of money. Hopefully we've done our penance and now we'll go on and conduct our business.''
 The Ciprianis have also agreed to the appointment of a monitor, Jeffrey M. Kaplan, who Mr. Arkin said was an expert in the field of corporate compliance, to oversee their taxes.
 Benjamin Brafman, who represented Peter Gatien, the former owner of the Limelight, in a tax evasion case in the late 1990s, said that obtaining a certificate of relief was not commonplace, but was sometimes done in cases whose economic stakes were high, because, for instance, a business has many employees or cannot pay the penalties if it goes under, and when prosecutors were satisfied that the punishment was otherwise sufficient. ''Generally it's given in cases where the government and the court recognize that there are viable businesses that are essentially law-abiding companies and employees whose jobs are at stake, or revenue that you should be entitled to continue to earn,'' Mr. Brafman said.
 ''It's not very common, but it's not uncommon for good criminal lawyers to seek that kind of relief in these cases,'' he said. He said Mr. Gatien had obtained a certificate of relief and his club continued for some years, but his liquor license was ultimately revoked by the Liquor Authority.
 ''Their objective was to close him down, and they ultimately succeeded,'' Mr. Brafman said. But he said he would draw a distinction between Cipriani, with its mainstream restaurants like the Rainbow Room and Rainbow Grill, at Rockefeller Plaza, and Cipriani Dolci, at Grand Central Terminal, and a downtown disco club like the Limelight, ''that caters to people who have an alternate lifestyle.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (91%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (91%); SENTENCING (90%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); FELONIES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); MEN (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); PROBATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); MISDEMEANORS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%)

COMPANY: HARRY'S BAR LTD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



192 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW MARTIAL SOLAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: One Man, One Piano, Many Possibilities

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
The pianist Martial Solal opened his week at the Village Vanguard on Tuesday night by rolling through tunes that jazz musicians have been amusing and sharpening themselves with for 50 years or more. They included ''Cherokee,'' ''Body and Soul,'' '''Round Midnight'' and ''I Got Rhythm'' -- songs whose chord changes built a whole suggestive vocabulary for improvisers. 
 This is only the second time at the Vanguard that any performer has installed himself for a week of solo sets. (The pianist Fred Hersch did it last year.) But Mr. Solal, born in Algiers, long resident in Paris and a rare visitor to the United States, is used to this discipline. He did it a lot in the 1970s, when solo performances seemed a rich frontier for every kind of jazz musician, and he has kept solo piano in his portfolio ever since, alongside trios, big bands and other possibilities.
 What he did on Tuesday was to wander away from just about every through line of these songs except the chords. One of the world's most imposing jazz musicians -- being 80 has not dimmed his agility or his imagination -- he interpreted each passing moment of the songs as a provocation: spinning out a quick cycle of chords from just one, or interrupting the shape of a melody to add on a whole new structure, invented at breathtaking speed.
 It was easy to see him as a manic builder, a modernist renovator, coming up with expansions and compressions everywhere but somehow honoring the fundamental flow and beauty of the building. He did take songs apart, but he never entirely betrayed or abandoned them, and you could quickly identify what he was playing.
 The major precedent in this line of work is Art Tatum, and the influence was clear. But the big differences come from Mr. Solal's economy and -- of course -- his generation. His runs up and down the keyboard were shorter than Tatum's and sometimes full of bebop logic; a lot of the complex, dissonant chords he kept importing into the songs descended from 20th-century classical music, Debussy and after. 
 These were jittery miniatures with constant revisions. You often heard a new idea fully engaged before the last one was resolved. Sometimes the spray of wit, and the constant rising and falling of tempo, became wearisome. But not always. 
 His '''Round Midnight'' was astonishing for how long it maintained its gorgeous, restful tempo, even when that tempo was only implied. And because it was the longest piece of the set, arriving a little more than halfway through, you got the point: This was the apex, the cresting time. Discursive as the performance was, it had an arc. Mr. Solal is a master at this game.
 Martial Solal continues through Sunday at the Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village; (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martial Solal at the Village Vanguard on Tuesday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK VARTOOGIAN/FRONTROWPHOTOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (93%); MUSIC (92%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



193 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: A Climate Meeting With Nobel Laureates

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Walter Gibbs contributed reporting from Oslo.

DATELINE: POTSDAM, Germany, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Sixty-two years after the victorious Allied leaders convened in this stately Prussian town to create the post-World War II world, 15 Nobel Prize laureates assembled here this week for another momentous task: saving the world from global warming.
 It was only an academic symposium, to be sure, and none of the scholars claimed to have a master plan to eradicate the threat of climate change. Still, there was a whiff of validation, if not victory, in the air. 
 ''The scientific findings are clear: climate is changing, and it is a response to human activities,'' said Mario J. Molina, a Mexican-American chemist who won the Nobel Prize in 1995 for being the first to posit that chlorofluorocarbons and similar chemicals could poke a hole in the ozone layer.
 Dr. Molina spoke during a week of Nobel Prize announcements that the laureates at this meeting clearly hoped would culminate Friday with the awarding of a ''green'' Peace Prize.
 Among those hotly rumored as candidates are three climate-change evangelists: former Vice President Al Gore; Sheila Watt-Cloutier, a Canadian Inuit who has warned of the threat to Arctic wildlife; and Rajendra K. Pachauri, an Indian scientist who leads the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which assesses the risks of greenhouse gases for the United Nations.
 Mr. Gore was not here, but his name came up frequently. And the Nobel winners, far from nitpicking ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' the film chronicling his climate campaign, seemed to embrace it. 
 Dr. Pachauri was here, and he kicked things off with his panel's latest findings, which he said should end the debate about whether humans are making the planet dangerously warmer.
 ''People do raise this issue of what's happening with the science, and whether the science is on board,'' said Dr. Pachauri, showing slides of spiking emissions. ''I think that argument really should be over.''
 Even if the Norwegian Nobel committee passes over all the candidates who have worked on issues related to climate change, there was a bracing sense here that public opinion had finally caught up to science on the topic.
 No longer is the United States, which refused to sign the Kyoto Protocol and continues to go its own way in climate policy, viewed as an insuperable hurdle to a global replacement deal.
 ''If you look at what's happened in the last year or so, it's been quite extraordinary,'' said Sir Nicholas Stern, a British economist who wrote a report last year on the potential costs of not confronting climate change.
 ''It wasn't until January this year that President Bush was at all clear there was a problem; now he's sounding as if he's a leader in the response to this problem,'' Sir Nicholas said. That was one of the few times Mr. Bush's name came up here, though he was the host of a recent meeting of 16 major carbon-emitting nations in Washington.
 Asked why this was, the scientists offered a few theories. Mr. Bush, one said, was in the waning days of his presidency, and it would make more sense to look to his successor. ''The expectation is that with the next administration, leadership will be recaptured,'' Dr. Molina said.
 Hans Joachim Schellnhuber, a scientist who advises Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on climate policy, said that to be fair to the White House, it had come a long way on climate change.
 At the Group of 8 meeting of leading industrial nations in June, Mr. Bush said the United States would ''seriously consider'' a European plan proposed by Mrs. Merkel to halve greenhouse gas emissions worldwide by 2050. The United States still opposes mandatory cuts, a policy advocated by Mrs. Merkel and the European Union and favored by the scientists here.
 If the Nobel laureates have a political standard-bearer, it is Mrs. Merkel, a physicist who not only champions their cause but also speaks their language. She was here to give a speech and lingered to listen to Sir Nicholas and Wangari Maathai, the Kenyan environmental activist who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2004.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 2, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Oct. 11 about a meeting on climate change attended by Nobel Prize laureates noted for their environmental work misstated the position of the United States on the Kyoto Protocol, the international treaty aimed at fighting global warming. It was signed by the United States but not ratified by the Senate; the United States did not refuse to sign the treaty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (95%); NOBEL PRIZES (93%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); CHEMISTRY (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); OZONE DEPLETION (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AL GORE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (79%); GERMANY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



194 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1736 words

HEADLINE: High Point Hears Cheers From Abroad

BYLINE: By JULIE SCELFO

 BODY:
High Point, N.C.
 RICH Americans build backyard home theaters. British millionaires join exclusive car clubs. But the newly affluent in China, Russia, India and the United Arab Emirates have embraced a surprising status symbol: American furniture.
 Although most manufacturers faced gloomy sales forecasts at last week's High Point Market -- the largest furniture industry trade show in the world, with 85,000 attendees and 12 million square feet of show space -- purveyors of high-end furniture were concentrating on one of the industry's few bright spots, the growing overseas market for American-made luxury furnishings.
 According to people both within and outside the industry, rich consumers in countries new to high-end consumer culture now see furniture from the United States as desirable as porcelain from Limoges and Italian sports cars. 
 The American industry's relatively new embrace of of-the-moment styling, combined with brand-name designers and a longstanding tradition of fine craftsmanship, has helped cultivate an image that speaks to foreign consumers' desire for the best of everything. And they are spending accordingly, on dining chairs backed with rare ebony, hand-upholstered settees and dining sets that comfortably seat 20. 
 ''These people have shopped the world, and what they want are products that are well designed and crafted beyond ordinary standards,'' said Steve Nobel, chairman of the Luxury Home Alliance, a group that promotes American and international luxury goods and services for the home. 
 But that's not all they want, said Jerry Epperson, who analyzes the American furniture market for Mann, Armistead & Epperson in Richmond, Va. They also want products that showcase their new status, which America's large-scale upholstered and wood furniture is uniquely suited to do. 
 ''I've been to Japan, China, India, all these places, and one of the things they brag about is that they have American furniture,'' Mr. Epperson said, ''the implication being that they have a home big enough that they can even use American furniture.'' 
 Radha Chadha, a branding consultant in Hong Kong and co-author of ''The Cult of the Luxury Brand: Inside Asia's Love Affair With Luxury,'' said that American furniture is instantly recognizable to many Asians, and therefore an effective status symbol. ''Whereas other luxury brand products, like Louis Vuitton bags, are used by Asian consumers from all walks of life,'' she added, ''only people at the very top end can afford luxury American furniture.''
 There is no small irony in these developments for the struggling American furniture industry. Despite hard-fought efforts to keep manufacturing jobs in North Carolina, where the industry has been based for more than 100 years, over the last decade most companies moved the bulk of their wood furniture manufacturing overseas, succumbing to the same pressures of globalization as other American industries. 
 Now, most ''American'' furniture sold by venerable companies like Thomasville, Broyhill and Hooker Furniture actually comes from places like China, Vietnam and the Philippines.
 And even as this shift has helped keep prices competitive in the lower and middle ranges of the market -- and in many cases even driven them to record lows -- American spending on furniture has declined more sharply this year than at any time since 1982, Mr. Epperson said. 
 The top range has not been spared: 11 days before the High Point Market began on Oct. 1, Henredon, an American company that was founded in Morganton, N.C., in 1945 and that produces lines by Ralph Lauren and Barbara Barry as well as its own upscale collection, announced plans to close a large factory there, eliminating more than 500 jobs. 
 ''It's a very difficult thing to have to do because we have personal friendships and relationships there,'' said Tom Tilley, the president of Henredon. ''It's heart-wrenching.'' 
 Henredon plans to open a new, smaller factory in North Carolina for custom work and expects to hire more than 100 people, but the mass assembly of wood furniture will be transferred to the Philippines.
 Meanwhile, though, Henredon's sales abroad have been increasing steadily, said David Parker, its vice president for international sales. Although Henredon's parent company, Furniture Brands International, will not release revenue figures for its divisions (its second-quarter sales in 2007 fell 10.99 percent from last year), Mr. Tilley said that overseas sales now account for 10 percent of Henredon's income, double what it was in 2004.
 ''It's still a relatively small percentage, but it does offer a tremendous balance to a soft economy in the U.S.,'' he said, adding that the growth has been ''a delightful surprise.'' At last week's market, buyers from 24 countries visited the Henredon showroom, and the first retailers from Ukraine, Indonesia, India, France and Armenia made purchases.
 At Century Furniture, which still makes 90 percent of its products in Hickory, N.C., international sales now make up about 10 percent of the company's estimated $180 million revenue, more than twice what it was five years ago, said Edward M. Tashjian, Century's vice president for marketing. 
 It has found two of its biggest and fastest growing markets in Dubai and Japan (where customers are particularly fond of pieces from well-known designers like Oscar de la Renta and Kelly Hoppen, Mr. Tashjian said), and it is developing a following in China, which is the United States' largest provider of furniture imports and the source of $5 billion worth of furnishings sold by American retailers last year. 
 In May, Eddy Hsiao, a Chinese entrepreneur who made his fortune manufacturing some of this low-cost furniture, opened the first Century showroom in Taiwan, in downtown Taichung, and in September he opened the first one in mainland China, in Shanghai.
 Betting that the market for Century pieces will keep growing, he plans to open a showroom in Shenzhen this month and a fourth location, in Beijing, by the end of the year. 
 Based on sales at the Taichung location over the last few months, Robert Maricich, Century's president and chief executive, estimated that its sales in China would reach $7 million to $10 million this year.
 To be sure, a big reason for the boom in foreign sales is the languishing dollar, which has made expensive American furnishings affordable for many with bank accounts measured in euros or rupees. 
 Even countries famous for their furniture, like Norway and Italy, are snapping up American pieces: exports of wood furniture from North Carolina to Norway between January and July were up about 500 percent over the same period last year, according to the North Carolina Department of Commerce's International Trade Division; the state's exports to Italy were up nearly 700 percent.
 But the largest shift was among upholstered pieces sent to China, which increased by more than 4,000 percent between the first half of 2006 -- when they accounted for less than a half of a percent of the state's upholstered exports -- and the same period in 2007. Mr. Tashjian, who oversees Century's marketing worldwide, said that surge was about more than low prices. Chinese furniture is ''boxy, unrefined and common'' to the eyes of the newly affluent Chinese, he said. ''It's almost vulgar. Part of them displaying their wealth is having something everyone else doesn't have.'' 
 Mr. Maricich, who has been working for more than a decade to break Century into the Chinese market, was more circumspect. ''In China people are building 10 and 12 and 20,000-square-foot homes,'' he said. ''They want an affluent lifestyle and they really aspire to a Western design sense.'' 
 John Victor Jokinen, a founder and chief executive of E. J. Victor, in Morganton, echoed him. ''Sales in these countries are all driven by the fact that people are building huge homes and need to fill them up,'' he said. ''Their designers come either with them or without them, bring their floor plans, select pieces based on the size of the room, choose the colors and finishes, and then purchase enough merchandise to fill up a shipping container.'' 
 At High Point, his company, which still makes nearly all of its furniture in North Carolina, was visited by retailers and interior designers from India, Russia, Latvia and other Baltic states. 
 Although the customers these professionals serve are widely seen as part of a single, growing consumer class with a shared desire for the best of the best, ideas of what that means can vary among cultures, as the American companies have been learning. 
 Mr. Tashjian said his clients in Dubai and other parts of the Middle East tend to like ''oversize pieces, a lot of gold, things that are glitzed and glammed up,'' while the newly rich in China are drawn to more refined pieces -- ''it's a very old culture and they appreciate fine tailoring and craftsmanship'' -- albeit ones that are ''polished, smooth and look brand new.'' 
 Indians likewise ''want it new,'' said Laura Holland, a spokeswoman for Hickory Chair in Hickory, N.C. (''they don't understand antique finishes,'' she said), but they still want traditional styling. Whereas, she explained, the gentlemen and ladies from Russia lean toward contemporary pieces by designers like Alexa Hampton and Thomas O'Brien, and love dark, rich finishes and gold hand striping, whether it's on chairs or tables or china cabinets.
 Manufacturers were not the only ones at High Point concerned with cracking such codes: decorators, too, were contemplating the American housing bust and hard times ahead, and talking about where to find new business. 
 At a clinic in a windowless conference room at High Point, Lloyd Princeton, a management consultant to designers, architects and manufacturers, urged the roughly 50 interior designers in attendance -- nearly all of them women living in places like Manassas, Va., and Raleigh, N.C. -- to think differently about potential clients. 
 ''You need to be more expansive in thinking about where your money's coming from,'' he lectured as the designers dutifully scribbled in their notebooks.
 His advice might have seemed unlikely to some, but he offered it in an upbeat tone: ''There's tremendous wealth in other regions, including the Middle East, China, Russia and also South Africa,'' he told his audience. ''And they spend their money fluidly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LUXE: Thomas O'Brien's Soho upholstered bed, right, and the Christiansen dining table, below, proved popular with Russian retailers (pg. F9)
OUTWARD BOUND: American companies selling furniture abroad include, clockwise from top: E. J. Victor, Henredon, Century Furniture and Baker (pg. F9)
 MADE IN AMERICA: Furniture like this Kelly Hoppen settee draws Asian buyers (pg. F1). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE MFG (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); WOOD FURNITURE MFG (89%); FURNITURE MFG (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); LUGGAGE MFG (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); TRADE SHOWS (71%); SPORTS CARS (53%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (62%)

ORGANIZATION: OUTWARD BOUND (59%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (62%); LVMH (BIT) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (62%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (53%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



195 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: Boom Times for U.S. Dentists, But Not for Americans' Teeth

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
For American dentists, times have never been better.
 The same cannot be said for Americans' teeth.
 With dentists' fees rising far faster than inflation and more than 100 million people lacking dental insurance, the percentage of Americans with untreated cavities began rising this decade, reversing a half-century trend of improvement in dental health. 
 Previously unreleased figures from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that in 2003 and 2004, the most recent years with data available, 27 percent of children and 29 percent of adults had cavities going untreated. The level of untreated decay was the highest since the late 1980s and significantly higher than that found in a survey from 1999 to 2002. 
 Despite the rise in dental problems, state boards of dentists and the American Dental Association, the main lobbying group for dentists, have fought efforts to use dental hygienists and other non-dentists to provide basic care to people who do not have access to dentists. 
 For middle-class and wealthy Americans, straight white teeth are still a virtual birthright. And dentists say that a majority of people in this country receive high-quality care.
 But many poor and lower-middle-class families do not receive adequate care, in part because most dentists want customers who can pay cash or have private insurance, and they do not accept Medicaid patients. As a result, publicly supported dental clinics have months-long waiting lists even for people who need major surgery for decayed teeth. At the pediatric clinic managed by the state-supported University of Florida dental school, for example, low-income children must wait six months for surgery.
 In some cases, the results of poor dental care have been deadly. A child in Mississippi and another in Maryland died this year from infections caused by decayed teeth.
 The dental profession's critics -- who include public health experts, some physicians and even some dental school professors -- say that too many dentists are focused more on money than medicine.
 ''Most dentists consider themselves to be in the business of dentistry rather than the practice of dentistry,'' said Dr. David A. Nash, a professor of pediatric dentistry at the University of Kentucky. ''I'm a cynic about my profession, but the data are there. It's embarrassing.''
 A defender of the profession is Dr. Terry D. Dickinson, a practicing dentist who is also the executive director of the Virginia Dental Association. He says he believes that dentists are charitable and want to provide care to poor patients. But dentists are also in business; they must pay rent and employee salaries, and they deserve fair fees, he said.
 ''Charity is not a health care system,'' Dr. Dickinson said.
 Dentists, of course, are no more obligated to serve the poor than are lawyers or accountants. But the issue from a public health standpoint, the critics say, is that even as so many patients go untreated, business is booming for most dentists. They are making more money while working shorter hours, on average, even as the nation's number of dentists, per person, has declined.
 The lack of dental care is not restricted to the poor and their children, the data shows. Experts on oral health say about 100 million Americans -- including many adults who work and have incomes well above the poverty line -- are without access to care.
 A federal survey shows that 27 percent of adults without insurance saw a dentist in 2004, down from 29 percent in 1996, when dental fees were significantly lower, even after adjusting for inflation. For adults with private insurance, the rate was virtually unchanged, at 57 percent, up from 56 percent. Since 1990, the number of dentists in the United States has been roughly flat, about 150,000 to 160,000, while the population has risen about 22 percent. In addition, more dentists are working part time.
 Partly as a result, dental fees have risen much faster than inflation. In real dollars, the cost of the average dental procedure rose 25 percent from 1996 to 2004. The average American adult patient now spends roughly $600 annually on dental care, with insurance picking up about half the tab. 
 Dentists' incomes have grown faster than that of the typical American and the incomes of medical doctors. Formerly poor relations to physicians, American dentists in general practice made an average salary of $185,000 in 2004, the most recent data available. That figure is similar to what non-specialist doctors make, but dentists work far fewer hours. Dental surgeons and orthodontists average more than $300,000 annually.
 ''Dentists make more than doctors,'' said Morris M. Kleiner, a University of Minnesota economist. ''If I had a kid going into the sciences, I'd tell them to become a dentist.''
 But despite the allure of rising salaries, the shortage of dentists will almost certainly worsen, because the nation has fewer dental schools and fewer dentists in training than a generation ago. After peaking at 5,750 in 1982, the number of dental school graduates fell to 4,440 in 2003, as several big dental schools closed their doors. The average dentist is now 49 years old, according to the American Dental Association, and for at least the next decade retiring dentists will probably outnumber new ones.
 Even if more students wanted to enter the profession, states are not moving aggressively to expand dental schools or open new ones. Training dentists is expensive, because dental schools must provide hands-on training -- unlike medical schools, which send doctors to hospitals for training after they graduate. Hospitals receive federal subsidies for the training they provide to medical interns and residents, but the equivalent system does not really exist in dentistry.
 Meanwhile, the A.D.A. does not support opening new dental schools or otherwise increasing the number of dentists. The association says it sees no nationwide shortage of dentists, though it acknowledges a shortage in rural areas. Dentists note that in the early 1980s, when schools were graduating nearly twice as many dentists relative to the overall size of the population as they are now, some dentists struggled to keep their practices afloat.
 Dr. Kathleen Roth, president of the A.D.A., said that the association is working to increase Medicaid's reimbursement rates to make it more cost-effective for dentists to treat low-income patients. While Medicaid is supposed to cover both basic care and emergency procedures for children, the program will pay only for emergency procedures -- not basic care -- for adults in most states.
 ''Access to dental care, especially for children, has been a growing problem for 10 years,'' Dr. Roth said. ''State and federal programs have decreased the amount of dollars available.''
 Besides calling for higher Medicaid reimbursement, Dr. Roth said, the association supports putting health aides with basic dental training into public schools. The aides would help get appointments for children who need them and teach children basic habits like brushing teeth.
 But critics say the association's plans would do little to solve the basic problem of access to care. Moreover, even in states that have raised Medicaid payments, most dentists still do not accept Medicaid patients. Virginia, for example, overhauled its Medicaid program in 2005, raising rates 30 percent. But only about 25 percent of all Virginia dentists now accept Medicaid patients, compared with 15 percent before the changes.
 Some dentists do not accept Medicaid patients because they frequently miss appointments, which means lost revenue, said Dr. L. Jackson Brown, the former managing vice president for health policy at the A.D.A. 
 With little dental care available for poor children, pediatricians are teaching themselves how to apply fluoride varnish on baby teeth, a simple procedure that can prevent cavities, said Dr. Amos S. Deinard, a pediatrician and associate professor at the University of Minnesota.
 ''The dentists don't want to see these kids,'' Dr. Deinard said.
 Outside the United States, more than 50 countries, including some western European nations, now allow technicians called dental therapists to drill and fill cavities, usually in children. 
 Proponents of the therapists say their training is comparable to the practical training that dentists receive, but without the general medical training dentists get. Studies of the work performed by the therapists have concluded that it is comparable to, and in some cases better than, that of fully trained dentists.
 Dr. Frank Catalanotto, a professor of community dentistry at the University of Florida, said dental therapists would be a cost-effective way to provide basic care to children and some adults who could not otherwise afford treatment.
 But state boards of dentistry have blocked dental therapists from working, arguing that only dentists should be allowed to drill teeth, because it is an ''irreversible surgical procedure'' and can lead to serious complications like infections or nerve damage. Children of Alaska Natives in remote areas have high rates of cavities and essentially no access to dentists, so a coalition of tribes began a program in 2003 to use therapists to treat native children. 
 ''There's never been a dentist in these rural areas,'' said Dr. Ron Nagel, a dentist who helped create the Alaska program.
 But the American Dental Association fought the program almost as soon as it began, dropping its effort only in July, after a state judge ruled in favor of the program. Still, the group continues to oppose letting dental therapists practice anywhere in the continental United States. 
 ''What we're extremely uncomfortable with is that they need to drill teeth and sometimes extract teeth,'' said Dr. Roth, the association's president. Use of therapists would create a two-tier system where some people have access to dentists, while others must settle for less-qualified practitioners, she said.
 Dr. Caswell A. Evans, a dentist and associate dean at the University of Illinois-Chicago, said dentists must stop fighting efforts to expand care to patients they are not currently treating. The system is failing many patients, he said.
 ''Right now we have a double standard of care,'' Dr. Evans said. ''Some people can get it and some people can't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin Feeny, 4, being examined by Dr. Richard Yoon in New York. About a quarter of Americans have untreated cavities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
Chance Robertson, a dental hygienist, works on Tyler Gainey, 3, who was with his mother, Ana, in Gainesville, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID G. MASSEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A27) CHART: MORE SPENDING, BUT MORE DECAY: Spending on dental services has been rising faster than overall prices for the last decade. But an intermittent survey by the government indicates that the state of the nation's dental health has deteriorated recently, after decades of improvement. (Sources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Medicare) (pg. A27) Chart showing a rise in spending on dental services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENTAL INSURANCE (90%); CAVITIES (90%); ORAL HEALTH (90%); DENTISTRY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); TOOTH DISORDERS (89%); PEDIATRICS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ORAL HYGIENE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); TRENDS (78%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (76%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (73%); MEDICAID (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); HEALTH CARE (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); AMERICAN DENTAL ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



196 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: At Home and Far Away, Grief for a Taxi Driver Killed in a Baghdad Shooting

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Qais Mizher contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Mournful members of Iraq's Armenian Christian population bowed their heads and recited the Lord's Prayer over an altar of burning incense at a funeral here on Wednesday for two Armenian women killed by private security contractors, the second such fatal shooting in less than a month. 
 Relatives also called for justice on Wednesday, though security contractors are immune from prosecution under Iraqi law. 
 For the family of at least one of the women killed, a taxi driver who was shot in the head as her car was struck with bullets while approaching a security convoy on Tuesday, the grief extended well beyond the borders of Iraq. 
 The woman, Marany Awanees, was the youngest of nine children in the Mamook family, including three brothers who are part of the Armenian diaspora in Europe and the United States. 
 The Mamook family, like so many other Armenian families, now straddles the boundaries between the West and the family's Middle Eastern roots.
 ''She was a lovely sister, my younger sister, a lovely, lovely sister,'' a brother, Paul Mamook, an electrical engineer in Belfast, Northern Ireland, said in a telephone interview. 
 Relatives in Iraq described her as a quiet woman with few friends or interests other than her church and her siblings. She started working as a taxi driver for Armenians two years ago, after her husband died, to support two of her daughters, who are in college. A third is in high school. 
 Paul Mamook said he called his sister after the Sept. 16 shooting by guards with Blackwater USA that killed as many as 17 people who were stuck in traffic in Baghdad. The shooting struck fear in him, he said, because Ms. Awanees was a taxi driver. ''I phoned her, and I said, 'Whenever you drive, watch and check, and be very careful,''' he said by telephone on Wednesday. ''But I never expected it to happen to her.'' 
 In Baghdad, another brother, Albert Mamook, said the guards should be tried for murder. ''The killers must be punished,'' he said, calling the attack unprovoked. ''We have no enemies. We just work, and we want our rights. We have a right to justice.'' 
 Ms. Awanees's white Oldsmobile was riddled by automatic gunfire in the Karada neighborhood of Baghdad on Tuesday afternoon. Her front-seat passenger, Jeniva Jalal, 30, was also killed; a woman and a boy in the back seat survived, witnesses and local police officials said. 
 The guards in the shooting worked for Unity Resources Group, an Australian-run security company registered in Singapore and with headquarters in Dubai. The people they were to protect worked under contract for the United States Agency for International Development. 
 In a statement issued Wednesday, Unity Resources said the Karada neighborhood had been the target of suicide bombing in recent weeks. The company said guards used a strobe light, hand signals and a flare to warn off the car. ''Fearing a suicide attack, only then did the team use their weapons in a final attempt to stop the vehicle,'' the statement said. 
 ''We deeply regret the loss of these lives,'' the statement said. 
 Unity Resources said it was trying to contact the family, though Paul and Albert Mamook and other relatives said they had not heard from the company. 
 At the funeral, the women's wood coffins were placed end to end between pews as the liturgy was read, and relatives wept. 
 Later, relatives, friends and clergy members sat quietly on sofas at an Armenian cultural center. Those who attended expressed condolences to Ms. Awanees' daughters. ''She was a lovely Christian,'' Paul Mamook said. 
 After decades of emigration that has accelerated since the American invasion, about 20,000 Armenian Christians remain in Iraq, where they struggle to maintain their traditions. 
 The brothers who left in the 1970s eased into professional jobs in Belfast, Munich and Glendale, Calif., while those who stayed suffered along with the rest of Iraq. Albert Mamook, for example, was captured in 1982 during the Iran-Iraq war and spent 20 years in an Iranian prison only to be released in 2002, a year before the United States invasion of Iraq. Armenians in Iraq, like other Christians, have at times been the targets of insurgents, though the Mamook family has not. 
 ''I'm in shock,'' Paul Mamook said of his sister's death. ''It happened. It is real.'' 
 2 Killed in Attack on U.S. Base
 BAGHDAD, Thursday, Oct. 11 (Reuters) -- An ''indirect fire'' attack Wednesday night on an American base, Camp Victory, near the main Baghdad airport killed two members of the multinational force and wounded 38, the United States military said Thursday. 
 ''Indirect fire'' usually refers to mortars or rockets. The military did not give the victims' nationalities.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mourners carried the coffin of Marany Awanees and, below, comforted one another at her funeral yesterday at an Armenian Orthodox Church in Baghdad. She was killed Tuesday by employees of Unity Resources Group, an Australian-run security company. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HEAD INJURIES (78%); MURDER (77%); FIREARMS (77%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (77%); FAMILY (76%); CHILDREN (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (72%); IMMUNITY (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (60%); POLICE FORCES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (91%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (75%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (65%) ARMENIA (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



197 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-20 
 Marines Seek Lead Role In Afghanistan Effort
 The Marine Corps is pressing to remove its forces from Iraq and to send them instead to Afghanistan to take over the leading combat role there, according to senior military and Pentagon officials. The idea would leave the Iraq war in the Army's hands. A1 
 House Panel Notes 'Genocide' 
 A House committee voted to condemn the mass killings of Armenians in Turkey in World War I as an act of genocide, rebuffing the White House and warnings from Turkey's government that the vote would gravely strain relations with the United States. A1 
 Two Women Mourned in Iraq
 Members of Iraq's Armenian Christian population attended a funeral for two Armenian women killed by private security contractors. A19 
 Nearly four weeks after the shooting involving Blackwater USA, American military officials and Iraqi investigators say the F.B.I. and State Department are refusing to share information with them on their investigation into the killings. A19 
 World Bank Defends Aid
 Robert B. Zoellick, the new president of the World Bank, said that help for the poorest countries should be coupled with expanded aid to China and other ''middle income'' nations. A16 
 NATIONALA22-29 
 Judge Orders Delay On Immigration Measure
 A federal judge in San Francisco ordered an indefinite delay on a central measure of the Bush administration's new strategy to curb illegal immigration. A1 
 School Shooting in Cleveland
 A 14-year-old student, disgruntled about having been suspended after a fight earlier in the week, shot and injured four people at a downtown Cleveland high school before fatally shooting himself. A22 
 Panel Votes for More Scrutiny
 Two Congressional panels rejected President Bush's request to renew the government's broad eavesdropping authority, and instead adopted a measure that would give federal judges greater oversight and more scrutiny over electronic surveillance conducted overseas by the National Security Agency. A29 
 City Eases Up on Homeless
 Los Angeles officials agreed not to enforce an ordinance used to bolster police sweeps of homeless people sleeping on sidewalks until 1,250 units of low-cost housing are built. A29 
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 Searching the Cosmos
 Astronomers in Hat Creek, Calif., are planning to switch on the first elements of a giant new array of radio telescopes that they say will greatly extend the investigation of natural and unnatural phenomena in the universe. A24 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-6
 Schools Must Pay Tuition For Disabled Students
 The United States Supreme Court let stand a ruling that the New York City school system must pay private school tuition for disabled children, even if the parents refuse to try public school programs first. But the justices are likely to take up the issue again soon, with nationwide implications. B1 
 Shelter Policy Tightened
 New York City will stop providing emergency shelter to families who are reapplying for a place to stay after being ruled ineligible, officials said. The revised policy was criticized as unfair to those who need shelter the most, but others defended it as necessary, saying the city's generosity was being widely abused. B1 
 Turmoil at Columbia
 Students at Columbia University's Teachers College protested and confronted university officials at two emotional meetings a day after a noose was found hanging on the door of a black professor. The police said their hate crimes unit had mounted a full investigation.B3 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-16 
 A Gap in Dental Care
 Dentists' fees are rising faster than inflation, and more than 100 million people lack dental insurance. The result: The percentage of Americans with untreated cavities is on the rise. A1 
 Business DigestC2 
 EDITORIALA30-31
 Editorials: Supreme disgrace; too timid for tax increases; Adam Cohen on another person in jail, perhaps for political reasons, in Mississippi in the United States attorneys scandal.
 Columns: Gail Collins and Roger Cohen

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); JUDGES (87%); TUITION FEES (86%); ARMIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (73%); WORLD WAR I (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); CHILDREN (69%); ORDINANCES (68%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (68%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (66%); IMMIGRATION (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (64%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (62%); HOMELESSNESS (61%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (91%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ARMENIA (93%); TURKEY (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



198 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Home Court Advantage

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. BROYDE and DEBORAH E. LIPSTADT. 
Michael J. Broyde is a professor of law and Deborah E. Lipstadt a professor of Jewish studies at Emory University.

DATELINE: Atlanta 

 BODY:
 THANKS to the Internet, universal access to the printed word and economic globalization, the 21st century is expected to be shaped by the free exchange of ideas. But casting a shadow over this optimistic prediction is the emerging threat of ''libel tourism.'' 
 In 2004, Khalid bin Mahfouz, a billionaire Saudi businessman, took action against Rachel Ehrenfeld, an American author whose book ''Funding Evil: How Terrorism Is Financed and How to Stop It,'' published in 2003, argues that Mr. bin Mahfouz has financed Osama bin Laden and other terrorists. Mr. bin Mahfouz sued Ms. Ehrenfeld for libel in Britain, where libel laws impose an onerous burden on authors to prove the truth of their statements, and in 2005 won a default judgment ordering her to apologize, destroy all copies of the book and pay the sheik roughly $230,000 in damages. 
 The book had never been published or sold in Britain, but about 20 people had ordered it online and had it shipped there. British courts asserted jurisdiction, and Ms. Ehrenfeld found herself subject to the laws of another country. 
 Until this case came along, American authors and publishers thought that unless their books were actually published in Britain, they would not be subject to its rather draconian libel laws, which put the burden of proof on the defendant rather than the plaintiff as American laws do, and greatly restrict what information writers can present as evidence in their defense. Now it appears that wealthy and powerful people who object to a book can simply find a country with sympathetic laws, have a book shipped there and sue. 
 Mr. bin Mahfouz has a history of challenging those who have accused him of links to terrorism. He has sued or threatened to sue a series of publications and has instituted legal action in the cases of at least four different books. He has won many of these cases by default or through settlements, because authors often cannot marshal the resources to defend themselves. Ms. Ehrenfeld herself lost by default, and is relying on the hope that Mr. bin Mahfouz's judgment will not be enforced here in the United States.
 American courts and publishers must take steps to preserve the unique protections American authors and journalists treasure. If they do not, ultimately it is readers who will be deprived of information and ideas.
 What are the solutions? First, publishers must fight against libel suits on behalf of their authors. Last spring, Mr. bin Mahfouz sued Cambridge University Press for publishing ''Alms for Jihad,'' which contends that certain Islamic charities are diverting funds to terrorist causes. Rather than contest these accusations, Cambridge apologized, withdrew the book from circulation, agreed to shred any remaining copies and even asked libraries to return their copies to be destroyed. 
 What's notable in this case is that Mr. bin Mahfouz sued the publisher, which had strong financial incentives to settle, rather than the American authors, J. Millard Burr and Robert O. Collins, Sudan experts who have a vested interest in proving the truth of their allegations. Without even a chance to fight, the authors have suffered a serious blow to their reputations. 
 No single author can fight extremely wealthy opponents, particularly in British courts. If publishers show a willingness to capitulate, people like Mr. bin Mahfouz get the upper hand. 
 American courts, for their part, must resist enforcing global legal standards or judgments that curtail a free press. The United States Southern District Court of New York, which is considering whether the judgment against Ms. Ehrenfeld should be enforced, should recognize the danger of libel tourism and rule for Ms. Ehrenfeld when it issues its decision this fall. 
 To protect authors in the future, Congress should pass legislation preventing any American court -- state or federal -- from enforcing libel judgments issued by foreign courts, so that anyone wishing to sue an American for libel must do so in the United States. This would be an exception to our usual practice with regard to British court judgments, which are usually enforced here. But because the differences in American and British libel laws are drastic, special protections are needed to uphold our tradition of free speech. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBEL & SLANDER (91%); WRITERS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BURDENS OF PROOF (76%); DAMAGES (75%); JURISDICTION (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); JOURNALISM (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); GLOBALIZATION (58%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



199 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Sales Increase at Wholesalers Outpaces Inventory Growth

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Sales growth at United States wholesalers surpassed that of inventories in August, a sign that manufacturers were poised to expand production and help avoid an economic slump. 
 Stockpiles rose 0.1 percent, less than forecast, after a 0.2 percent increase in July, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. Sales climbed 0.4 percent, after a 0.2 percent gain in July.
 Orders may get a boost as wholesalers replenish stocks at warehouses to meet demand, keeping factories and assembly lines busy. Gains in production will help prevent the economy from stalling even if the housing slump deepens and restrictions on credit constrain some companies, economists said.
 During a World Business Forum event in New York yesterday, Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, said the chances that the United States would avoid recession were better than 50 percent, as stock market gains balance out declines in home prices.
 Wholesalers account for about a quarter of all business inventories. Stockpiles and factories fell 0.1 percent, the first decline since February 2006, the Commerce Department said last week. Retail inventories, which account for about a third of business stockpiles, will be included in a report tomorrow.
 Yesterday's report showed that wholesalers' supplies of durable goods -- relatively expensive items meant to last several years -- rose 0.4 percent in August after declining 0.4 percent in July. Inventories of computer equipment increased 2 percent.
 Auto inventories rose 2.4 percent, after declining 0.7 percent the month before, while auto sales increased 0.5 percent, yesterday's report showed.
 Inventories of nondurable goods decreased 0.4 percent, led by declines in oil. Sales dropped 0.1 percent, after a 0.4 percent gain a month earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (93%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (72%); HOME PRICES (70%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007



200 of 610 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: New York Official Faults Student-Loan Marketing

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Erie Processing, a student lender in Largo, Fla., has offered cash rewards to loan applicants. 
 Elite Financial Group, a lender in San Diego, has solicited business with letters from its ''Federal Loan Division'' on stationery with an eagle logo that looks very much like something the federal government might use. The letters warn that ''failure to respond could result in higher interest rates and increased payments.'' 
 Academic Loan Group, also of San Diego, has sent prospective customers ''checks'' that look as if they could be cashed, but cannot, unless the recipients take out loans with the company. 
 Marketing tactics like these aimed at students are the latest focus of the continuing inquiry into the student loan industry by Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York attorney general. 
 Mr. Cuomo's office sent subpoenas and document requests yesterday to the three lenders, as well as to dozens of others nationwide, lawyers in his office said. Federal law forbids lenders from offering inducements to students applying for federal loans. 
 ''The practices we have found in the direct marketing of loans to students are surprisingly blatant and even involve some companies who portray themselves as arms of the federal government,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement. ''Unfortunately, it appears that the Education Department has once again failed to adequately police the student loan industry.''
 Margaret Spellings, the education secretary, has defended the department's enforcement of federal law.
 Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who is chairman of the House education committee, has also raised concerns about direct marketing by student lenders. Rachel Racusen, a spokeswoman for Mr. Miller, said his committee was looking into such practices.
 The subpoenas from Mr. Cuomo's office are a shift from ties between lenders and college financial aid offices to marketing aimed at students.
 Dwayne Martins, chief financial officer at Erie Processing, declined to comment on whether his company had received a request from Mr. Cuomo's office. Mr. Martins said Erie had offered a gift card to loan applicants for evaluating the application process whether or not they ended up doing business with the company. 
 ''It has nothing to do with whether they get a loan or not,'' he said.
 Officials at Elite Financial Group did not return calls yesterday afternoon.
 Paul G. Marble, president of Academic Loan Group, said marketing materials that looked like checks did not violate the ban on inducements to borrowers because customers did not receive any money until after making at least one payment on a loan.
 Direct marketing to students, who often do not shop around extensively for loans, creates a risk that students will ''overborrow,'' said Luke Swarthout, a higher education advocate at the U.S. Public Interest Research Group in Washington. 
 ''This money seems all too easy to come by,'' Mr. Swarthout said. And because the marketing materials go directly to students, he added, no intermediary -- like a university financial aid office -- may be available to discourage students from taking on excessive debt.
 ''Students need assistance navigating the marketplace,'' Mr. Swarthout said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York issued several subpoenas yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN VICTORIA BURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DIRECT MARKETING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBPOENAS (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); SALES PROSPECTING (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LAWYERS (70%); YOUTH MARKET (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%)

COMPANY: PROSURITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (58%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (56%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

 
