

401 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Give Me a 'P.' Give Me an 'E.' What Does It Spell? Trouble.

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
STOCK market bulls have at least two reasons for optimism: Corporate earnings have continued to climb, and sentiment on Wall Street has improved sharply in the last several weeks.
In theory, this could provide more fuel for the stock market rally. After all, not only are earnings climbing, but the price that investors are willing to pay for those profits could also start to rise. And most investors now say they are optimistic about stocks, according to the American Association of Individual Investors.
Yet there's a problem with this argument: Price-to-earnings ratios based on current year earnings haven't been rising lately. According to Standard & Poor's, the P/E for the S.& P. 500-stock index, based on 2011 estimated operating earnings, stands at 13.3, down from the 15.1 at this time last year, based on 2010 estimated profits. 
The situation has set off a Wall Street debate over whether investors should count on market valuations to rise at all this year. In fact, some strategists are even hinting that P/E's could slump, which would create a major headwind for this rally.
To be sure, taken as a group, investors are moving money back into stocks. After yanking $182 billion out of stock mutual funds between January 2007 and last November, they have put more than $3 billion back into equity portfolios since December. And greater demand for stocks should drive market multiples higher.
But Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial, said a $3 billion inflow is still a modest sum by historical standards and that he doesn't expect strong inflows into stock funds this year.
Moreover, he said Americans' new investments in stocks could be offset if foreign investors become more squeamish about the United States market. He noted that stocks ''have been relying more on foreign investors to support valuations in recent years.''
Although the S.& P. 500, in dollar terms, posted a strong double-digit gain in the second half of 2010, it was up significantly less in euros and yen. That could make foreign investors question whether they should invest heavily in the American market.
And while earnings have continued to rise, the pace of that growth has slowed as the recovery has matured. That could also keep P/E ratios in check, Mr. Kleintop added.
Adam S. Parker, domestic equity strategist at Morgan Stanley, agrees. In a recent strategy report, Mr. Parker noted a historical relationship between slowing earnings growth rates and lower market valuations. Since 1976, for example, when corporate profits have grown at a rate of 11 to 12 percent, the average P/E based on estimated earnings for the next 12 months has been 15.7. But when that profit growth slows to the 9 to 10 percent range, those P/E's have historically fallen to around 11.
Mr. Parker said he believes that by the middle to the end of 2011, investor expectations for year-over-year profit growth will be lower than today's consensus estimate of 12 percent. ''As such, the market multiple, in our estimation, is more likely to contract than expand over the medium to long term,'' unless profit growth reaccelerates in 2012, he wrote last week.
There's yet another reason to worry that P/E's may contract. Let's assume that market bulls are correct and that the economy is well on the way to recovery, with a successful jump-start from policy makers. One would expect inflation and interest rates to rise, as they are natural byproducts of an expanding economy.
The problem is that higher inflation has generally led to lower market P/E ratios, because inflation eats away at the value of each dollar in corporate earnings.
Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance, says that while there is a fundamental relationship between inflation and stock market valuations, current levels of inflation are so low that there is no reason to panic. ''As long as inflation still hovers in the 1 to 3 percent range, that's actually a good time for P/E multiples,'' he said.
Indeed, since 1871, the market's P/E has hovered between 17 and 18, on average, in periods when inflation has grown at an annual rate of 1 to 3 percent. That's well above the current P/E of about 13.
But what about the potential for rising market interest rates? Couldn't higher rates pressure P/E ratios, by making bonds more attractive than stocks?
In general, the answer is yes, but Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, points out that bond yields are still low by historical standards.
And even though there's a strong correlation between rising bond yields and falling P/E's, that's not necessarily the case when the yield on 10-year Treasury securities is below 5 percent. Ten-year yields today are still only 3.3 percent.
''Yields are at a low-enough absolute level where it's not yet threatening P/E's,'' Ms. Sonders said.
AT some point, of course, that may no longer be the case. But Mr. Richardson said sufficiently high inflation and interest rates are ''late 2011 or 2012 issues.'' In the meantime, he said, ''investors can still be excited about stocks based on earnings growth alone.''
If market valuations contract, corporate America could still keep the rally going by meeting and exceeding profit expectations, he said. And if market multiples expand? ''That would be icing on the cake,'' he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF INDIVIDUAL INVESTORS (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



402 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Cables From American Diplomats Portray U.S. Ambivalence on Tunisia

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

 BODY:
Cables from American diplomats in Tunisia portray a deepening ambivalence toward the rule of President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali, expressing alarm about popular resentment of the blatant corruption of the country's first family but also gratitude for Mr. Ben Ali's cooperation against terrorism and the stability he long imposed.
Those cables, from the cache obtained by the anti-secrecy organization WikiLeaks and made public in recent weeks, helped fuel the anger on the streets that culminated Friday with Mr. Ben Ali's flight after 23 years in power. Posted on a site created last month called TuniLeaks, the diplomats' disgusted and lurid accounts of the kleptocratic ways of the president's extended family helped tip the scales, according to many Tunisian commentators. 
''What's Yours Is Mine'' was the wry title of a June 2008 cable reporting the brazen habits of the president's clan.
''Corruption in Tunisia is getting worse,'' the cable said. ''Whether it's cash, services, land, property, or yes, even your yacht, President Ben Ali's family is rumored to covet it and reportedly gets what it wants,'' the cable said, reporting that two nephews of Mr. Ben Ali's had seized the yacht of a French businessman in 2006.
While the cable recounted routine demands for bribes by low-ranking government workers (the cost of a traffic stop, one Tunisian said, was up from 20 dinars to 40 or 50, or about $28 to $34), it said the flagrant thievery at the highest levels was most worrisome.
''Although the petty corruption rankles, it is the excesses of President Ben Ali's family that inspire outrage among Tunisians,'' the cable said. ''With Tunisians facing rising inflation and high unemployment, the conspicuous displays of wealth and persistent rumors of corruption have added fuel to the fire.''
Another cable, from July 2009, reported a ''lavish'' dinner of the American ambassador, Robert F. Godec, with Mr. Ben Ali's son-in- law, Mohamed Sakher el-Materi, in his beachfront home in Hammamet. There was ''staff everywhere'' and ''ancient artifacts everywhere: Roman columns, frescoes and even a lion's head from which water pours into the pool,'' the cable said. The dinner included a dozen dishes, including ice cream and yogurt flown in from St. Tropez on the French Riviera.
''El Materi has a large tiger ('Pasha') on his compound, living in a cage,'' the ambassador reported. ''He acquired it when it was a few weeks old. The tiger consumes four chickens a day. (Comment: The situation reminded the ambassador of Uday Hussein's lion cage in Baghdad.),'' the cable added, referring to a son of Saddam Hussein.
The ambassador called the opulence of the evening ''over the top,'' saying that his hosts' ''behavior make clear why they and other members of Ben Ali's family are disliked and even hated by some Tunisians.''
''The excesses of the Ben Ali family are growing,'' he added.
Some cables report how the ''quasi mafia'' of the country's ruling family muscled its way into the management of Tunisia's most profitable bank and how Mr. Ben Ali demanded a 50 percent share of a private university.
Others, however, make it clear just how much United States officials, preoccupied with the threat of terrorism in many other Muslim countries, valued Mr. Ben Ali's cooperation and ability to maintain order.
An upbeat August 2008 cable giving Condoleezza Rice, then the secretary of state, a survey of Tunisia before a visit reported that ''Tunisia styles itself 'a country that works' .'' The writer added, ''While Tunisians grumble privately about corruption by the first lady's family, there is an abiding appreciation for Ben Ali's success in steering his country clear of the instability and violence that have plagued Tunisia's neighbors.''
The cable reported not only Tunisia's successes against terrorists but also its progressive social ways, calling it ''a model for the region on women's rights.''
Tunisian activists associated with the independent blog Nawaat.org (the core, in Arabic) created the TuniLeaks site on Nov. 28, the same day WikiLeaks, along with The New York Times and other news organizations, began posting the first of 251,287 confidential diplomatic cables the organization had obtained.
The Tunisian government subsequently tried to block access to the site, but the striking details of the cables circulated on Tunisian Web sites, adding to the ferment against Mr. Ben Ali.
On its Twitter feed, WikiLeaks has highlighted reports of its reported role in encouraging the Tunisian uprising. Foreign Policy magazine tagged the end of Mr. Ben Ali's rule ''the first WikiLeaks revolution,'' and while that may be an overstatement, the cables' role in what President Obama lauded Friday as ''this brave and determined struggle for the universal rights'' underscores the awkward dilemma the WikiLeaks cables have posed for the administration.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has been pressing an ''Internet Freedom'' initiative, emphasizing the power of the Web to expose injustice and promote democracy. But at the same time, the Justice Department is conducting a criminal investigation of WikiLeaks and its founder, Julian Assange, including using subpoenas to try to obtain the private Internet activity, credit card numbers and bank account details of Mr. Assange and his associates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); TERRORISM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (69%) TUNISIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



403 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Charu Chaudhry, Salil Mehta

 BODY:
Charu Chaudhry, the daughter of Neelam Chaudhry and Vinod Kumar Chaudhry of Edison, N.J., was married Friday to Salil Mehta, the son of Sharda Mehta of Addison, Ill., and the late Suresh Mehta, at the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. Deena Whittington, the acting section supervisor of the marriage bureau there, officiated. 
The bride, 36, is keeping her name. She is a postdoctoral fellow at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., where she conducts research on the molecular mechanisms of a class of proteins in the brain. She graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and received a doctorate in biophysics from Yale.
The bridegroom, 37, is the director of analytics in the Office of Financial Stability at the Treasury Department in Washington. He leads a group that provides analysis on how the $700 billion Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, passed by Congress in 2008, has affected the economy.
He graduated from Washington University in St. Louis and received a master's in mathematical statistics from Harvard.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); MARRIAGE (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); PHYSICS (69%); BIOLOGY (69%); BIOPHYSICS (69%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPERIOR COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA (58%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (50%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); MISSOURI, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



404 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CAREER COUCH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Are You Cut Out For Management?

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN. 
E-mail: ccouch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Q. You're very good at your job and although you didn't ask for it, you have been promoted into a management position for the first time. How different will it be from your current job?
A. They may call it a promotion, but moving into management is really like changing careers. ''It's a field unto itself,'' says Billie G. Blair, an organizational psychologist and C.E.O. of Change Strategists, a management consultancy in Los Angeles. ''You will be doing things well outside the duties of your old job, and you have to learn management's literature, language and techniques.''
Becoming a manager requires a transformation of your professional identity, says Linda A. Hill, a professor at Harvard Business School and author of ''Becoming a Manager: How New Managers Master the Challenges of Leadership.'' 
People often think that being a manager is about money, power and perks, Ms. Hill says, but it's more about interdependence. ''Your success is dependent on others, both those you manage as well as your bosses and your peers,'' she says. ''You are an instrument to get things done in the organization by working with and through others, rather than being the one doing the work.''
Q. Although you want to do the best you can, you don't feel well prepared. What can you do to succeed as a manager?
A. Ask a manager you respect to help guide you, says Rich Wellins, a senior vice president at DDI, Development Dimensions International, a talent management consultancy in Pittsburgh. And build a network of others who are relatively new to management.
''Connect with those who are still in the early stages of their career, like you, and meet with them regularly. Ask what they found most challenging in the first year,'' Mr. Wellins says. ''Find out what they did to prepare themselves to successfully transition and what three pieces of advice they would give to help with yours.''
The first six months are crucial for a new manager, so meet with your boss and create a development plan that includes any training you need and a six-month action plan. Emphasize to your manager ''that although you are stepping up to the plate, you want to be able to reconsider if the new role isn't a good fit,'' Ms. Blair says. ''If you just rush into it, the company will assume you're ready for the job and everything is fine.''
Q. Are certain kinds of people cut out for management?
A. Some people are natural leaders -- good at listening to others and helping them do their best. ''These are people who have a strong motivation to lead, to influence, to get things done for others,'' Mr. Wellins says. ''Many management skills can be learned, but the disposition and motivation to lead -- you either have it or you don't.''
Q. What if you've always wanted to be in management, but once you get there realize you hate it. How do you save face and get back to what you were happier doing before?
A. Don't be hasty -- it will take six months to a year to really know how you feel. At that point, do an assessment so that you can articulate why you may no longer want the job.
''Tease out what specifically you dislike,'' says Dawn Chandler, an assistant professor of management at the Orfalea College of Business at California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo. ''If it's people, then you're not cut out for management. But if it's a problem your group is facing that is likely to pass, or an aspect of the job, like budgeting, it could be you need a job redesign, not another job.'' For example, you may like the job more if you delegate budgeting to someone else.
If, after this assessment, you still want to leave your management role, have an honest discussion with your boss. State your problems with the job, or why you prefer your previous work. If your company has two career tracks -- management/professional and technical -- suggest switching tracks, Ms. Chandler says. A lateral move to a different division or department won't be viewed as a step back and will allow you to use your technical expertise again.
Q. Will you derail your career if you leave a managerial position? Or is it better for an unhappy manager to move into a non-managerial position, despite any negative career impact?
A. In the past, says Ms. Hill, it would have almost certainly derailed your career, but now it depends far more on the company's culture. ''Talent is not as portable as we used to believe,'' she says. ''And if you don't like your job you are less likely to be good at it, and will more than likely end up hurting your career because of poor performance.''
Good results can be achieved by stepping back and setting new goals instead, says Janet Flewelling, director of human resources operations at Administaff in Houston. ''If no lateral position is available, taking a step down -- especially in this economy -- may be your only option, and it isn't likely to hurt you in the long term,'' she says. ''Ultimately, your decision has to be about job and personal satisfaction,'' she adds, rather than the title, salary or corner office.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WRITERS (69%)

COMPANY: DEVELOPMENT DIMENSIONS INTERNATIONAL INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



405 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1872 words

HEADLINE: Why Your Next Place May Cost More

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
AT the height of the real estate boom in Manhattan, it seemed a new glass-walled apartment tower was unveiled every week and sold out before the next one even got its Web site up. Now, as the market plods along in a slow but steady recovery, brokers and developers are saying the city will soon face a shortage of new development projects.
Skeptics might be forgiven for snickering at the suggestion that this shortage will spur demand and -- what else? -- drive prices up. But a look at one indicator, the number of building permits filed for new residential units in recent years, might give the doubters pause.
Last year, through November, the city issued permits for only 10 new residential buildings, for a total of 505 new units. That's 95 percent fewer apartments, either condo or rental, than for the same period in 2008, when permits were filed for 9,448 units in 147 buildings, according to census data. (The number of units had dropped to 1,203 in 31 buildings in 2009.) 
''We tend to go through these cycles where, when you finally come out of a recession, there's a shortage of inventory,'' said Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist for Halstead Property and Brown Harris Stevens. ''You usually expect the slowdown to come over a couple years, but this was like slamming on the brakes. So to start up again may take awhile.''
Brokers, developers and market watchers say that barring any significant economic hiccups, real estate values in Manhattan will continue to grow at a measured rate through 2011. But starting in 2012, after most or all the new projects that were stalled or delayed have finally sold out, the supply of new apartments will take a decided dip, and prices for all apartments could start to rise significantly again. ''Once we work through the existing inventory and there's nothing new coming on line,'' said Kelly Mack, the president of the Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group, ''there's going to be a major shift in the market. Prices may start going up significantly in 2012, in anticipation of the shift in inventory.''
Mr. Heym said that since a permit doesn't always translate into bricks and mortar, many permits from 2008, and even earlier, have yet to turn into buildings that can be sold and occupied. ''There's also the question of how many buildings that were stalled during the downturn are still out there and when they will hit the market,'' he said. ''So there are a lot of unknowns.''
Gary Barnett, the president of Extell Development and one of the few developers who continued building through the downturn, said the lack of inventory was more pronounced now than in previous recessions. ''In the early 1990s,'' he said, ''there was a big overhang of things that had been built in the late '80s, but when things stopped this time, it just fell off a cliff.''
The number of building permits ''didn't go from 10,000 to 6,000,'' he added, ''it went from 10,000 to nothing. So we don't have the overhang and no big inventory to work through. That's why the market recovered much more quickly than people expected.''
Brokers and developers agreed that the reason for the sudden falloff in building permits was the lack of construction financing. Apartment hunters have had a hard time in the last two years getting a mortgage, but developers have had an even tougher haul.
''If you look at all the traditional players in the condo market, very few have anything under construction because there's just no financing available,'' said Bruce A. Beal Jr., an executive vice president of the Related Companies, which this year is completing a 60-story tower at 42nd Street and 10th Avenue that will have both rentals and condos.
Both Mr. Beal and Mr. Barnett acknowledged that a few big projects would open this year but said they could not think of any major developments set to open in 2012. Projects that get under way this year will not be ready for sale until 2013 at the earliest, after inventory has been depleted and just as prices have begun to rise.
Last year, Extell started a hotel/condo project on West 57th Street near Carnegie Hall with 136 condo units, which Mr. Barnett said would come to market in 2013.
Related is planning its mixed-use project at Hudson Yards, and could also start building on a West 30th Street site on the edge of the yards, but Mr. Beal said neither location was likely to produce new apartments until 2013 or 2014.
Kenneth S. Horn, the president of Alchemy Properties, which primarily builds condos with fewer than 100 apartments, said that he felt lucky both to have closed on a site in late 2010 and to have obtained a construction loan. ''I've been saying for the last 18 months that now is the time to buy and build,'' he said, ''but the financing just wasn't there. The only reason we could get this loan was through relationships that we had built up over the years.''
The project will be a 23-story tower on 15th Street and Fifth Avenue that will have a school on its lower floors and 57 apartments above. Alchemy will start construction this year and hopes to start selling units in late 2013. ''Who knows if prices will go up in 2013,'' Mr. Horn said, ''but it does stand to reason, on pure supply-and-demand basis. If I can deliver product in 2013, I'll be ahead of the curve. And I would have done more projects if I had been able to convince my other financial partners.''
Mr. Beal said that although construction financing had been hard to obtain for both rental buildings and condos, he knew of as many as 3,000 planned rental units that could start construction in 2011. ''There are a couple of deals here or there that people have heard about,'' he said, ''but not much in a market that once was producing as many as 10,000 units a year.''
Andy Gerringer, the managing director of the Marketing Directors, said that developers and investors had just recently started buying land again. ''Sites have been trading,'' he said, ''and we've been talking to people who are dusting off plans that have been on the back burner for the last two years.''
Many projects conceived before the downturn are getting a second life, said Howard Lorber, the chairman of Prudential Douglas Elliman. Most have been taken over by new owners and are likely to start construction within the next six months, he said.
''I have 10 different projects that we're working on,'' he added, ''and none of them have started yet. Let's say only seven of them eventually get done, that's still probably 1,000 units'' that could come to market by 2013.
The handful of buildings that start selling apartments in 2011 are expected to do well, especially in neighborhoods that have little new construction.
In 2007, when buyers were signing contracts based solely on floor plans and glossy brochures, more than 8,500 new units hit the market in Manhattan, not including Upper Manhattan neighborhoods, according to data compiled by the Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group. That number dropped to just 553 units in 2009, when the presale market shriveled up because buyers were loath to invest in properties they could not see or touch.
Prices for new developments also peaked in 2009, with a median price of $1.215 million, according to streeteasy.com. Prices continued to rise during the downturn -- even as resale prices dropped -- because many contracts signed before the financial crisis did not close until late 2009. By 2010, the number of new development units had climbed back up to 1,767, but the median price had dropped 13 percent, to $1.059 million.
Ms. Mack said she expected only about 600 to 700 new condo units in about a dozen buildings to hit the market this year.
Two big projects include the Aldyn on Riverside Boulevard, a 40-story tower built by Extell and being marketed by Corcoran Sunshine, and Related's 42nd Street tower. At the Aldyn, which is to have 286 rental and condo units, rents will start at $2,695, for a studio, and condo prices will range from $775,000, for a one-bedroom, to $15.9 million for a six-bedroom. The 42nd Street building will start leasing 500 apartments in March, but sales on its 150 condos will not start until later in the year.
Activity on the rental side will probably be greater, with about 2,500 new rental units expected to open in 2011, said Gary Malin, the president of Citi Habitats, ''but we're not talking about massive construction coming on line.''
The 2011 number includes 900 apartments at 8 Spruce Street, the 76-story tower designed by Frank Gehry; 250 units at Clinton Park, a Two Trees Management project at 53rd Street and 11th Avenue that will eventually have 900 apartments; and 338 units at the Continental, a 53-story tower at Avenue of the Americas and 32nd Street.
''A lot of what's going to come on line this year has been planned for a long time,'' Mr. Malin said.
Durst Fetner Residential recently closed on a failed condo site that will now become a rental building. It plans to break ground in early 2012 on a 40-story rental tower at 855 Sixth Avenue, at 30th Street. The building would have either retail space or a hotel on the lower floors and several hundred apartments above. It would not be completed until 2014.
Prices in the buildings that open this year will most likely start to rise in some areas before others. Emerging neighborhoods like Harlem, the financial district and Downtown Brooklyn still have substantial inventory, and prices will stay stable.
''But about 80 percent of New York City has very little product in it right now,'' Mr. Gerringer said. That doesn't mean a new building can expect to sell 50 units a month, as they used to in 2007 and 2008, ''but those levels weren't real, and a level market is more like 5 to 10 units a month, which is what we've been seeing lately.''
Several new buildings that have opened downtown, for example, have fared well in recent months. Ms. Mack cited 123 Third Avenue, a 19-story tower at 14th Street that started selling last fall. It sold 70 percent of its 47 apartments in four months, she said, adding that the projects with healthy sales are the ones priced well for their neighborhoods.
Gramercy 19 on Third Avenue, a 16-unit condo that Halstead Property started selling last November, sold 12 units in 10 days, said Stephen G. Kliegerman, the executive director of development marketing at Halstead. Four of those sales had bidding wars and sold for about 5 percent above initial asking prices. The range at Gramercy 19 starts at $440,000, for a one-bedroom, and reaches $2.65 million for a three-bedroom.
''That kind of thing isn't happening everywhere and there are always going to be bright spots and lower spots,'' Mr. Kliegerman said. ''But generally, we are seeing good demand almost everywhere.''
On the Upper West Side, an area that has historically had little new development, Brown Harris Stevens began sales in December for the Laureate, a 20-story building with 76 apartments. Made up mainly of large apartments with three to seven bedrooms, the building is not yet finished, but interest has been so keen that as of Jan. 1, 600 people had signed a waiting list to see units.
Mr. Kliegerman said that fewer new apartments entering the market ''can be a good thing for the market,'' adding, ''It gives the market time to catch up to itself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CLINTON PARK: To open in 2011
CARNEGIE 57: To open in 2013
450 WEST 42ND STREET: To open this year (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
THE CONTINENTAL: To open soon (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE LAUREATE: To open this year (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CARNEGIE 57: Check back in two years (PHOTOGRAPH BY RENDERING, EXTELL DEVELOPMENT COMPANY) (RE8) CHART:Off a Cliff: Manhattan building permits dropped sharply in 2009 and 2010. Building permits, Manhattan (Source: Census) (RE1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); CENSUS (54%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



406 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 6112 words

HEADLINE: EUROTRASHED

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
Paul Krugman is a Times columnist and winner of the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. His latest book is ''The Return of Depression Economics and the Crisis of 2008.''

 BODY:
THERE'S SOMETHING peculiarly apt about the fact that the current European crisis began in Greece. For Europe's woes have all the aspects of a classical Greek tragedy, in which a man of noble character is undone by the fatal flaw of hubris.
Not long ago Europeans could, with considerable justification, say that the current economic crisis was actually demonstrating the advantages of their economic and social model. Like the United States, Europe suffered a severe slump in the wake of the global financial meltdown; but the human costs of that slump seemed far less in Europe than in America. In much of Europe, rules governing worker firing helped limit job loss, while strong social-welfare programs ensured that even the jobless retained their health care and received a basic income. Europe's gross domestic product might have fallen as much as ours, but the Europeans weren't suffering anything like the same amount of misery. And the truth is that they still aren't. 
Yet Europe is in deep crisis -- because its proudest achievement, the single currency adopted by most European nations, is now in danger. More than that, it's looking increasingly like a trap. Ireland, hailed as the Celtic Tiger not so long ago, is now struggling to avoid bankruptcy. Spain, a booming economy until recent years, now has 20 percent unemployment and faces the prospect of years of painful, grinding deflation.
The tragedy of the Euromess is that the creation of the euro was supposed to be the finest moment in a grand and noble undertaking: the generations-long effort to bring peace, democracy and shared prosperity to a once and frequently war-torn continent. But the architects of the euro, caught up in their project's sweep and romance, chose to ignore the mundane difficulties a shared currency would predictably encounter -- to ignore warnings, which were issued right from the beginning, that Europe lacked the institutions needed to make a common currency workable. Instead, they engaged in magical thinking, acting as if the nobility of their mission transcended such concerns.
The result is a tragedy not only for Europe but also for the world, for which Europe is a crucial role model. The Europeans have shown us that peace and unity can be brought to a region with a history of violence, and in the process they have created perhaps the most decent societies in human history, combining democracy and human rights with a level of individual economic security that America comes nowhere close to matching. These achievements are now in the process of being tarnished, as the European dream turns into a nightmare for all too many people. How did that happen?
THE ROAD TO THE EURO It all began with coal and steel. On May 9, 1950 -- a date whose anniversary is now celebrated as Europe Day -- Robert Schuman, the French foreign minister, proposed that his nation and West Germany pool their coal and steel production. That may sound prosaic, but Schuman declared that it was much more than just a business deal.
For one thing, the new Coal and Steel Community would make any future war between Germany and France ''not merely unthinkable, but materially impossible.'' And it would be a first step on the road to a ''federation of Europe,'' to be achieved step by step via ''concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity.'' That is, economic measures would both serve mundane ends and promote political unity.
The Coal and Steel Community eventually evolved into a customs union within which all goods were freely traded. Then, as democracy spread within Europe, so did Europe's unifying economic institutions. Greece, Spain and Portugal were brought in after the fall of their dictatorships; Eastern Europe after the fall of Communism.
In the 1980s and '90s this ''widening'' was accompanied by ''deepening,'' as Europe set about removing many of the remaining obstacles to full economic integration. (Eurospeak is a distinctive dialect, sometimes hard to understand without subtitles.) Borders were opened; freedom of personal movement was guaranteed; and product, safety and food regulations were harmonized, a process immortalized by the Eurosausage episode of the TV show ''Yes Minister,'' in which the minister in question is told that under new European rules, the traditional British sausage no longer qualifies as a sausage and must be renamed the Emulsified High-Fat Offal Tube. (Just to be clear, this happened only on TV.)
The creation of the euro was proclaimed the logical next step in this process. Once again, economic growth would be fostered with actions that also reinforced European unity.
The advantages of a single European currency were obvious. No more need to change money when you arrived in another country; no more uncertainty on the part of importers about what a contract would actually end up costing or on the part of exporters about what promised payment would actually be worth. Meanwhile, the shared currency would strengthen the sense of European unity. What could go wrong?
The answer, unfortunately, was that currency unions have costs as well as benefits. And the case for a single European currency was much weaker than the case for a single European market -- a fact that European leaders chose to ignore.
THE (UNEASY) CASE FOR MONETARY UNION International monetary economics is, not surprisingly, an area of frequent disputes. As it happens, however, these disputes don't line up across the usual ideological divide. The hard right often favors hard money -- preferably a gold standard -- but left-leaning European politicians have been enthusiastic proponents of the euro. Liberal American economists, myself included, tend to favor freely floating national currencies that leave more scope for activist economic policies -- in particular, cutting interest rates and increasing the money supply to fight recessions. Yet the classic argument for flexible exchange rates was made by none other than Milton Friedman.
The case for a transnational currency is, as we've already seen, obvious: it makes doing business easier. Before the euro was introduced, it was really anybody's guess how much this ultimately mattered: there were relatively few examples of countries using other nations' currencies. For what it was worth, statistical analysis suggested that adopting a common currency had big effects on trade, which suggested in turn large economic gains. Unfortunately, this optimistic assessment hasn't held up very well since the euro was created: the best estimates now indicate that trade among euro nations is only 10 or 15 percent larger than it would have been otherwise. That's not a trivial number, but neither is it transformative.
Still, there are obviously benefits from a currency union. It's just that there's a downside, too: by giving up its own currency, a country also gives up economic flexibility.
Imagine that you're a country that, like Spain today, recently saw wages and prices driven up by a housing boom, which then went bust. Now you need to get those costs back down. But getting wages and prices to fall is tough: nobody wants to be the first to take a pay cut, especially without some assurance that prices will come down, too. Two years of intense suffering have brought Irish wages down to some extent, although Spain and Greece have barely begun the process. It's a nasty affair, and as we'll see later, cutting wages when you're awash in debt creates new problems.
If you still have your own currency, however, you wouldn't have to go through the protracted pain of cutting wages: you could just devalue your currency -- reduce its value in terms of other currencies -- and you would effect a de facto wage cut.
Won't workers reject de facto wage cuts via devaluation just as much as explicit cuts in their paychecks? Historical experience says no. In the current crisis, it took Ireland two years of severe unemployment to achieve about a 5 percent reduction in average wages. But in 1993 a devaluation of the Irish punt brought an instant 10 percent reduction in Irish wages measured in German currency.
Why the difference? Back in 1953, Milton Friedman offered an analogy: daylight saving time. It makes a lot of sense for businesses to open later during the winter months, yet it's hard for any individual business to change its hours: if you operate from 10 to 6 when everyone else is operating 9 to 5, you'll be out of sync. By requiring that everyone shift clocks back in the fall and forward in the spring, daylight saving time obviates this coordination problem. Similarly, Friedman argued, adjusting your currency's value solves the coordination problem when wages and prices are out of line, sidestepping the unwillingness of workers to be the first to take pay cuts.
So while there are benefits of a common currency, there are also important potential advantages to keeping your own currency. And the terms of this trade-off depend on underlying conditions.
On one side, the benefits of a shared currency depend on how much business would be affected.
I think of this as the Iceland-Brooklyn issue. Iceland, with only 320,000 people, has its own currency -- and that fact has given it valuable room for maneuver. So why isn't Brooklyn, with roughly eight times Iceland's population, an even better candidate for an independent currency? The answer is that Brooklyn, located as it is in the middle of metro New York rather than in the middle of the Atlantic, has an economy deeply enmeshed with those of neighboring boroughs. And Brooklyn residents would pay a large price if they had to change currencies every time they did business in Manhattan or Queens.
So countries that do a lot of business with one another may have a lot to gain from a currency union.
On the other hand, as Friedman pointed out, forming a currency union means sacrificing flexibility. How serious is this loss? That depends. Let's consider what may at first seem like an odd comparison between two small, troubled economies.
Climate, scenery and history aside, the nation of Ireland and the state of Nevada have much in common. Both are small economies of a few million people highly dependent on selling goods and services to their neighbors. (Nevada's neighbors are other U.S. states, Ireland's other European nations, but the economic implications are much the same.) Both were boom economies for most of the past decade. Both had huge housing bubbles, which burst painfully. Both are now suffering roughly 14 percent unemployment. And both are members of larger currency unions: Ireland is part of the euro zone, Nevada part of the dollar zone, otherwise known as the United States of America.
But Nevada's situation is much less desperate than Ireland's.
First of all, the fiscal side of the crisis is less serious in Nevada. It's true that budgets in both Ireland and Nevada have been hit extremely hard by the slump. But much of the spending Nevada residents depend on comes from federal, not state, programs. In particular, retirees who moved to Nevada for the sunshine don't have to worry that the state's reduced tax take will endanger their Social Security checks or their Medicare coverage. In Ireland, by contrast, both pensions and health spending are on the cutting block.
Also, Nevada, unlike Ireland, doesn't have to worry about the cost of bank bailouts, not because the state has avoided large loan losses but because those losses, for the most part, aren't Nevada's problem. Thus Nevada accounts for a disproportionate share of the losses incurred by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage companies -- losses that, like Social Security and Medicare payments, will be covered by Washington, not Carson City.
And there's one more advantage to being a U.S. state: it's likely that Nevada's unemployment problem will be greatly alleviated over the next few years by out-migration, so that even if the lost jobs don't come back, there will be fewer workers chasing the jobs that remain. Ireland will, to some extent, avail itself of the same safety valve, as Irish citizens leave in search of work elsewhere and workers who came to Ireland during the boom years depart. But Americans are extremely mobile; if historical patterns are any guide, emigration will bring Nevada's unemployment rate back in line with the U.S. average within a few years, even if job growth in Nevada continues to lag behind growth in the nation as a whole.
Over all, then, even as both Ireland and Nevada have been especially hard-luck cases within their respective currency zones, Nevada's medium-term prospects look much better.
What does this have to do with the case for or against the euro? Well, when the single European currency was first proposed, an obvious question was whether it would work as well as the dollar does here in America. And the answer, clearly, was no -- for exactly the reasons the Ireland-Nevada comparison illustrates. Europe isn't fiscally integrated: German taxpayers don't automatically pick up part of the tab for Greek pensions or Irish bank bailouts. And while Europeans have the legal right to move freely in search of jobs, in practice imperfect cultural integration -- above all, the lack of a common language -- makes workers less geographically mobile than their American counterparts.
And now you see why many American (and some British) economists have always been skeptical about the euro project. U.S.-based economists had long emphasized the importance of certain preconditions for currency union -- most famously, Robert Mundell of Columbia stressed the importance of labor mobility, while Peter Kenen, my colleague at Princeton, emphasized the importance of fiscal integration. America, we know, has a currency union that works, and we know why it works: because it coincides with a nation -- a nation with a big central government, a common language and a shared culture. Europe has none of these things, which from the beginning made the prospects of a single currency dubious.
These observations aren't new: everything I've just said was well known by 1992, when the Maastricht Treaty set the euro project in motion. So why did the project proceed? Because the idea of the euro had gripped the imagination of European elites. Except in Britain, where Gordon Brown persuaded Tony Blair not to join, political leaders throughout Europe were caught up in the romance of the project, to such an extent that anyone who expressed skepticism was considered outside the mainstream.
Back in the '90s, people who were present told me that staff members at the European Commission were initially instructed to prepare reports on the costs and benefits of a single currency -- but that after their superiors got a look at some preliminary work, those instructions were altered: they were told to prepare reports just on the benefits. To be fair, when I've told that story to others who were senior officials at the time, they've disputed that -- but whoever's version is right, the fact that some people were making such a claim captures the spirit of the time.
The euro, then, would proceed. And for a while, everything seemed to go well.
EUROPHORIA, EUROCRISIS The euro officially came into existence on Jan. 1, 1999. At first it was a virtual currency: bank accounts and electronic transfers were denominated in euros, but people still had francs, marks and lira (now considered denominations of the euro) in their wallets. Three years later, the final transition was made, and the euro became Europe's money.
The transition was smooth: A.T.M.'s and cash registers were converted swiftly and with few glitches. The euro quickly became a major international currency: the euro bond market soon came to rival the dollar bond market; euro bank notes began circulating around the world. And the creation of the euro instilled a new sense of confidence, especially in those European countries that had historically been considered investment risks. Only later did it become apparent that this surge of confidence was bait for a dangerous trap.
Greece, with its long history of debt defaults and bouts of high inflation, was the most striking example. Until the late 1990s, Greece's fiscal history was reflected in its bond yields: investors would buy bonds issued by the Greek government only if they paid much higher interest than bonds issued by governments perceived as safe bets, like those by Germany. As the euro's debut approached, however, the risk premium on Greek bonds melted away. After all, the thinking went, Greek debt would soon be immune from the dangers of inflation: the European Central Bank would see to that. And it wasn't possible to imagine any member of the newly minted monetary union going bankrupt, was it?
Indeed, by the middle of the 2000s just about all fear of country-specific fiscal woes had vanished from the European scene. Greek bonds, Irish bonds, Spanish bonds, Portuguese bonds -- they all traded as if they were as safe as German bonds. The aura of confidence extended even to countries that weren't on the euro yet but were expected to join in the near future: by 2005, Latvia, which at that point hoped to adopt the euro by 2008, was able to borrow almost as cheaply as Ireland. (Latvia's switch to the euro has been put off for now, although neighboring Estonia joined on Jan. 1.)
As interest rates converged across Europe, the formerly high-interest-rate countries went, predictably, on a borrowing spree. (This borrowing spree was, it's worth noting, largely financed by banks in Germany and other traditionally low-interest-rate countries; that's why the current debt problems of the European periphery are also a big problem for the European banking system as a whole.) In Greece it was largely the government that ran up big debts. But elsewhere, private players were the big borrowers. Ireland, as I've already noted, had a huge real estate boom: home prices rose 180 percent from 1998, just before the euro was introduced, to 2007. Prices in Spain rose almost as much. There were booms in those not-yet-euro nations, too: money flooded into Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria and Romania.
It was a heady time, and not only for the borrowers. In the late 1990s, Germany's economy was depressed as a result of low demand from domestic consumers. But it recovered in the decade that followed, thanks to an export boom driven by its European neighbors' spending sprees.
Everything, in short, seemed to be going swimmingly: the euro was pronounced a great success.
Then the bubble burst.
You still hear people talking about the global economic crisis of 2008 as if it were something made in America. But Europe deserves equal billing. This was, if you like, a North Atlantic crisis, with not much to choose between the messes of the Old World and the New. We had our subprime borrowers, who either chose to take on or were misled into taking on mortgages too big for their incomes; they had their peripheral economies, which similarly borrowed much more than they could really afford to pay back. In both cases, real estate bubbles temporarily masked the underlying unsustainability of the borrowing: as long as housing prices kept rising, borrowers could always pay back previous loans with more money borrowed against their properties. Sooner or later, however, the music would stop. Both sides of the Atlantic were accidents waiting to happen.
In Europe, the first round of damage came from the collapse of those real estate bubbles, which devastated employment in the peripheral economies. In 2007, construction accounted for 13 percent of total employment in both Spain and Ireland, more than twice as much as in the United States. So when the building booms came to a screeching halt, employment crashed. Overall employment fell 10 percent in Spain and 14 percent in Ireland; the Irish situation would be the equivalent of losing almost 20 million jobs here.
But that was only the beginning. In late 2009, as much of the world was emerging from financial crisis, the European crisis entered a new phase. First Greece, then Ireland, then Spain and Portugal suffered drastic losses in investor confidence and hence a significant rise in borrowing costs. Why?
In Greece the story is straightforward: the government behaved irresponsibly, lied about it and got caught. During the years of easy borrowing, Greece's conservative government ran up a lot of debt -- more than it admitted. When the government changed hands in 2009, the accounting fictions came to light; suddenly it was revealed that Greece had both a much bigger deficit and substantially more debt than anyone had realized. Investors, understandably, took flight.
But Greece is actually an unrepresentative case. Just a few years ago Spain, by far the largest of the crisis economies, was a model European citizen, with a balanced budget and public debt only about half as large, as a percentage of G.D.P., as that of Germany. The same was true for Ireland. So what went wrong?
First, there was a large direct fiscal hit from the slump. Revenue plunged in both Spain and Ireland, in part because tax receipts depended heavily on real estate transactions. Meanwhile, as unemployment soared, so did the cost of unemployment benefits -- remember, these are European welfare states, which have much more extensive programs to shield their citizens from misfortune than we do. As a result, both Spain and Ireland went from budget surpluses on the eve of the crisis to huge budget deficits by 2009.
Then there were the costs of financial clean-up. These have been especially crippling in Ireland, where banks ran wild in the boom years (and were allowed to do so thanks to close personal and financial ties with government officials). When the bubble burst, the solvency of Irish banks was immediately suspect. In an attempt to avert a massive run on the financial system, Ireland's government guaranteed all bank debts -- saddling the government itself with those debts, bringing its own solvency into question. Big Spanish banks were well regulated by comparison, but there was and is a great deal of nervousness about the status of smaller savings banks and concern about how much the Spanish government will have to spend to keep these banks from collapsing.
All of this helps explain why lenders have lost faith in peripheral European economies. Still, there are other nations -- in particular, both the United States and Britain -- that have been running deficits that, as a percentage of G.D.P., are comparable to the deficits in Spain and Ireland. Yet they haven't suffered a comparable loss of lender confidence. What is different about the euro countries?
One possible answer is ''nothing'': maybe one of these days we'll wake up and find that the markets are shunning America, just as they're shunning Greece. But the real answer is probably more systemic: it's the euro itself that makes Spain and Ireland so vulnerable. For membership in the euro means that these countries have to deflate their way back to competitiveness, with all the pain that implies.
The trouble with deflation isn't just the coordination problem Milton Friedman highlighted, in which it's hard to get wages and prices down when everyone wants someone else to move first. Even when countries successfully drive down wages, which is now happening in all the euro-crisis countries, they run into another problem: incomes are falling, but debt is not.
As the American economist Irving Fisher pointed out almost 80 years ago, the collision between deflating incomes and unchanged debt can greatly worsen economic downturns. Suppose the economy slumps, for whatever reason: spending falls and so do prices and wages. But debts do not, so debtors have to meet the same obligations with a smaller income; to do this, they have to cut spending even more, further depressing the economy. The way to avoid this vicious circle, Fisher said, was monetary expansion that heads off deflation. And in America and Britain, the Federal Reserve and the Bank of England, respectively, are trying to do just that. But Greece, Spain and Ireland don't have that option -- they don't even have their own monies, and in any case they need deflation to get their costs in line.
And so there's a crisis. Over the course of the past year or so, first Greece, then Ireland, became caught up in a vicious financial circle: as potential lenders lost confidence, the interest rates that they had to pay on the debt rose, undermining future prospects, leading to a further loss of confidence and even higher interest rates. Stronger European nations averted an immediate implosion only by providing Greece and Ireland with emergency credit lines, letting them bypass private markets for the time being. But how is this all going to work out?
FOUR EUROPEAN PLOTLINES Some economists, myself included, look at Europe's woes and have the feeling that we've seen this movie before, a decade ago on another continent -- specifically, in Argentina.
Unlike Spain or Greece, Argentina never gave up its own currency, but in 1991 it did the next best thing: it rigidly pegged its currency to the U.S. dollar, establishing a ''currency board'' in which each peso in circulation was backed by a dollar in reserves. This was supposed to prevent any return to Argentina's old habit of covering its deficits by printing money. And for much of the 1990s, Argentina was rewarded with much lower interest rates and large inflows of foreign capital.
Eventually, however, Argentina slid into a persistent recession and lost investor confidence. Argentina's government tried to restore that confidence through rigorous fiscal orthodoxy, slashing spending and raising taxes. To buy time for austerity to have a positive effect, Argentina sought and received large loans from the International Monetary Fund -- in much the same way that Greece and Ireland have sought emergency loans from their neighbors. But the persistent decline of the Argentine economy, combined with deflation, frustrated the government's efforts, even as high unemployment led to growing unrest.
By early 2002, after angry demonstrations and a run on the banks, it had all fallen apart. The link between the peso and the dollar collapsed, with the peso plunging; meanwhile, Argentina defaulted on its debts, eventually paying only about 35 cents on the dollar.
It's hard to avoid the suspicion that something similar may be in the cards for one or more of Europe's problem economies. After all, the policies now being undertaken by the crisis countries are, qualitatively at least, very similar to those Argentina tried in its desperate effort to save the peso-dollar link: harsh fiscal austerity in an effort to regain the market's confidence, backed in Greece and Ireland by official loans intended to buy time until private lenders regain confidence. And if an Argentine-style outcome is the end of the line, it will be a terrible blow to the euro project. Is that what's going to happen?
Not necessarily. As I see it, there are four ways the European crisis could play out (and it may play out differently in different countries). Call them toughing it out; debt restructuring; full Argentina; and revived Europeanism.
Toughing it out: Troubled European economies could, conceivably, reassure creditors by showing sufficient willingness to endure pain and thereby avoid either default or devaluation. The role models here are the Baltic nations: Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia. These countries are small and poor by European standards; they want very badly to gain the long-term advantages they believe will accrue from joining the euro and becoming part of a greater Europe. And so they have been willing to endure very harsh fiscal austerity while wages gradually come down in the hope of restoring competitiveness -- a process known in Eurospeak as ''internal devaluation.''
Have these policies been successful? It depends on how you define ''success.'' The Baltic nations have, to some extent, succeeded in reassuring markets, which now consider them less risky than Ireland, let alone Greece. Meanwhile, wages have come down, declining 15 percent in Latvia and more than 10 percent in Lithuania and Estonia. All of this has, however, come at immense cost: the Baltics have experienced Depression-level declines in output and employment. It's true that they're now growing again, but all indications are that it will be many years before they make up the lost ground.
It says something about the current state of Europe that many officials regard the Baltics as a success story. I find myself quoting Tacitus: ''They make a desert and call it peace'' -- or, in this case, adjustment. Still, this is one way the euro zone could survive intact.
Debt restructuring: At the time of writing, Irish 10-year bonds were yielding about 9 percent, while Greek 10-years were yielding 121/2 percent. At the same time, German 10-years -- which, like Irish and Greek bonds, are denominated in euros -- were yielding less than 3 percent. The message from the markets was clear: investors don't expect Greece and Ireland to pay their debts in full. They are, in other words, expecting some kind of debt restructuring, like the restructuring that reduced Argentina's debt by two-thirds.
Such a debt restructuring would by no means end a troubled economy's pain. Take Greece: even if the government were to repudiate all its debt, it would still have to slash spending and raise taxes to balance its budget, and it would still have to suffer the pain of deflation. But a debt restructuring could bring the vicious circle of falling confidence and rising interest costs to an end, potentially making internal devaluation a workable if brutal strategy.
Frankly, I find it hard to see how Greece can avoid a debt restructuring, and Ireland isn't much better. The real question is whether such restructurings will spread to Spain and -- the truly frightening prospect -- to Belgium and Italy, which are heavily indebted but have so far managed to avoid a serious crisis of confidence.
Full Argentina: Argentina didn't simply default on its foreign debt; it also abandoned its link to the dollar, allowing the peso's value to fall by more than two-thirds. And this devaluation worked: from 2003 onward, Argentina experienced a rapid export-led economic rebound.
The European country that has come closest to doing an Argentina is Iceland, whose bankers had run up foreign debts that were many times its national income. Unlike Ireland, which tried to salvage its banks by guaranteeing their debts, the Icelandic government forced its banks' foreign creditors to take losses, thereby limiting its debt burden. And by letting its banks default, the country took a lot of foreign debt off its national books.
At the same time, Iceland took advantage of the fact that it had not joined the euro and still had its own currency. It soon became more competitive by letting its currency drop sharply against other currencies, including the euro. Iceland's wages and prices quickly fell about 40 percent relative to those of its trading partners, sparking a rise in exports and fall in imports that helped offset the blow from the banking collapse.
The combination of default and devaluation has helped Iceland limit the damage from its banking disaster. In fact, in terms of employment and output, Iceland has done somewhat better than Ireland and much better than the Baltic nations.
So will one or more troubled European nations go down the same path? To do so, they would have to overcome a big obstacle: the fact that, unlike Iceland, they no longer have their own currencies. As Barry Eichengreen of Berkeley pointed out in an influential 2007 analysis, any euro-zone country that even hinted at leaving the currency would trigger a devastating run on its banks, as depositors rushed to move their funds to safer locales. And Eichengreen concluded that this ''procedural'' obstacle to exit made the euro irreversible.
But Argentina's peg to the dollar was also supposed to be irreversible, and for much the same reason. What made devaluation possible, in the end, was the fact that there was a run on the banks despite the government's insistence that one peso would always be worth one dollar. This run forced the Argentine government to limit withdrawals, and once these limits were in place, it was possible to change the peso's value without setting off a second run. Nothing like that has happened in Europe -- yet. But it's certainly within the realm of possibility, especially as the pain of austerity and internal devaluation drags on.
Revived Europeanism: The preceding three scenarios were grim. Is there any hope of an outcome less grim? To the extent that there is, it would have to involve taking further major steps toward that ''European federation'' Robert Schuman wanted 60 years ago.
In early December, Jean-Claude Juncker, the prime minister of Luxembourg, and Giulio Tremonti, Italy's finance minister, created a storm with a proposal to create ''E-bonds,'' which would be issued by a European debt agency at the behest of individual European countries. Since these bonds would be guaranteed by the European Union as a whole, they would offer a way for troubled economies to avoid vicious circles of falling confidence and rising borrowing costs. On the other hand, they would potentially put governments on the hook for one another's debts -- a point that furious German officials were quick to make. The Germans are adamant that Europe must not become a ''transfer union,'' in which stronger governments and nations routinely provide aid to weaker.
Yet as the earlier Ireland-Nevada comparison shows, the United States works as a currency union in large part precisely because it is also a transfer union, in which states that haven't gone bust support those that have. And it's hard to see how the euro can work unless Europe finds a way to accomplish something similar.
Nobody is yet proposing that Europe move to anything resembling U.S. fiscal integration; the Juncker-Tremonti plan would be at best a small step in that direction. But Europe doesn't seem ready to take even that modest step.
OUT OF MANY, ONE? For now, the plan in Europe is to have everyone tough it out -- in effect, for Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain to emulate Latvia and Estonia. That was the clear verdict of the most recent meeting of the European Council, at which Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, essentially got everything she wanted. Governments that can't borrow on the private market will receive loans from the rest of Europe -- but only on stiff terms: people talk about Ireland getting a ''bailout,'' but it has to pay almost 6 percent interest on that emergency loan. There will be no E-bonds; there will be no transfer union.
Even if this eventually works in the sense that internal devaluation has worked in the Baltics -- that is, in the narrow sense that Europe's troubled economies avoid default and devaluation -- it will be an ugly process, leaving much of Europe deeply depressed for years to come. There will be political repercussions too, as the European public sees the continent's institutions as being -- depending on where they sit -- either in the business of bailing out deadbeats or acting as agents of heartless bill collectors.
Nor can the rest of the world look on smugly at Europe's woes. Taken as a whole, the European Union, not the United States, is the world's largest economy; the European Union is fully coequal with America in the running of the global trading system; Europe is the world's most important source of foreign aid; and Europe is, whatever some Americans may think, a crucial partner in the fight against terrorism. A troubled Europe is bad for everyone else.
In any case, the odds are that the current tough-it-out strategy won't work even in the narrow sense of avoiding default and devaluation -- and the fact that it won't work will become obvious sooner rather than later. At that point, Europe's stronger nations will have to make a choice.
It has been 60 years since the Schuman declaration started Europe on the road to greater unity. Until now the journey along that road, however slow, has always been in the right direction. But that will no longer be true if the euro project fails. A failed euro wouldn't send Europe back to the days of minefields and barbed wire -- but it would represent a possibly irreversible blow to hopes of true European federation.
So will Europe's strong nations let that happen? Or will they accept the responsibility, and possibly the cost, of being their neighbors' keepers? The whole world is waiting for the answer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ATHENS: Protests against austerity measures brought international travel and public services to a standstill on Dec. 15. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGELOS TZORTZINI S/AFP/GETTY IMAGES (MM26-MM27)
ROME: Students protested planned changes in the university system on Dec. 22 in Italy, where youth unemployment is about 25 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALFREDO FALVO/CONTRASTO/REDUX) (MM29)
BARCELONA, SPAIN: Industry and transport were paralyzed by a general strike on Sept. 29. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEP LAGO/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) (MM30)
BRUSSELS: Protesters also marched Sept. 29 in the city that is home to many European Union offices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES LOGGHE/AP PHOTO) (MM30-MM31)
LISBON: On Nov. 24, the fi rst general strike in more than two decades followed government cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCISCO LEONG/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) (MM31)
 DUBLIN: Protesters gathered on Dec. 7 outside Leinster House on the day lawmakers approved tax increases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER MORRISON/AP PHOTO) (MM32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); CLASSICS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); DEFLATION (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); DISMISSALS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); EURO (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (69%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (69%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (92%); SPAIN (92%); BELGIUM (79%); GREECE (79%); ITALY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



407 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin Sounds Off, But Misses the Point

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative
Let's all feel for Gov. Pat Quinn as he confronts an emotional double-header: dealing with both his conscience and a rhetorical onslaught from Wisconsin's spirited, fiscally conservative governor.
After supporting capital punishment during his campaign, Mr. Quinn said he'll ''follow his conscience'' on whether to veto last week's surprise abolition by the legislature. A veto would undermine the fellow Democrats who placed themselves in political jeopardy after also passing a tax increase dwarfing what Mr. Quinn claimed in his campaign was the limit he would support. 
Let's assume his, ah, conscience leads him to abolition but hope it also takes him to a bar or mixed-martial-arts ring in Madison, Wis.
There he can duke or kick it out with Gov. Scott Walker, the state's new governor, who last week ripped the Illinois tax increases. From a Madison studio, he seemingly appeared on every TV and radio outlet available in Illinois other than the Golf Channel and WLIT-FM.
Harking back to a bygone ''Escape to Wisconsin'' ad campaign, he weaved a multimedia seduction of Illinois businesses. ''You are welcome here,'' he said, many times.
He also threatened a less-lethal political version of take-no-prisoners, guerrilla-battle tactics: billboards promoting the glories of Wisconsin!
Rich Neimand, a Washington media and political strategist, offered me a potential billboard mantra: ''Wisconsin: Getting Midwestern Values Isn't Taxing.'' If Mr. Walker uses it, Mr. Neimand wants $150,000.
As with family feuds, this ruckus has a history. It includes Mr. Quinn's urging a Milwaukee train manufacturer to move to Illinois if Mr. Walker fulfills his promise to spurn $800 million in federal stimulus money and ditch a high-speed rail line linking Madison and Milwaukee.
The Illinois Senate president, John J. Cullerton, quickly obliged my request for relevant data. Even with the huge, ''temporary'' increases in Illinois, individuals and corporations are better off here than in Wisconsin -- and in decent shape compared with Indiana, Missouri, Minnesota and Michigan, too.
According to the Tax Foundation, the Illinois personal rate of 5 percent compared with a sliding scale of 4.6 percent to 7.75 percent in Wisconsin, with anybody there earning $10,000 or above taxed at a minimum of 5 percent. The new Illinois corporate rate of 7 percent compares with Wisconsin's 7.9 percent.
Mr. Walker doesn't deny this but says he'll get his rates down by 2015. Perhaps. But his rabble-rousing remains short on nuance.
As Chicago's Metropolitan Planning Council underscored, taxes are important, but keeping an area competitive also involves quality of life, overall fiscal health, specific business incentives and intangibles like leadership. Quality of life includes the culture, restaurants and recreation that lure bright young people to Chicago.
There's a crying need to think regionally and not just poach others' enterprises. Ultimately, our real competitors are growing metro areas around the world, like Singapore, Seoul, Istanbul and Munich, so it's smart to see neighbors as allies in a global struggle in which the United States lags.
Of course, that's not easy for Wisconsin and Illinois.
''There's no better way to galvanize Badgers than to dump over Illinois,'' said John Roach, a Madison author who is a former Chicago television producer.
Badgers didn't like Al Capone's hiding out in their state. The Packers-Bears enmity is combustible. When the Cubs play at Miller Park in Milwaukee, ''the beer flows and fists fly,'' Mr. Roach said.
''People from Illinois come to Wisconsin two weeks a year and are loud. They're to us what New Jersey is to New York. We love when they're bumper-to-bumper on I-90, throwing their cash out the windows in the Dells and North Woods,'' said Mr. Roach, whose own mother was Chicago South Side Irish.
The only way the telegenic Mr. Walker could rile his masses even more would be to commit Cheese Libel and burn a Jay Cutler jersey on-air.
But a cautionary note came from Mr. Neimand: Economic health involves more than competitive tax rates and cheap land; it involves thinking far beyond Racine, Prairie du Chien, Carbondale and Elgin.
''Both governors should note that the weather is a lot sunnier in Mexico, the local officials infinitely more generous, the environmental regulations more lax and the gang violence probably no worse than Chicago or Milwaukee,'' Mr. Neimand said.
So ridicule Illinoisans picnicking in the Dells, Badgers. But realize that it's folks around the world who are really eating your lunch, Mr. Walker, and ours.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin wants Illinois companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); VETO (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX LAW (75%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (67%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (62%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); MARTIAL ARTS (54%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (90%); SCOTT WALKER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (98%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



408 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Redevelopment Agencies Lie in Cost-Cutters' Sights

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
Jonathan Weber is the editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Jonathan Weber writes a regular column for The Bay Citizen
There are plenty of pat answers to the question of how California, with one of the world's most diverse and vibrant economies, has ended up in such a fiscal mess. Democrats blame Proposition 13, the 1978 measure that capped property taxes. Republicans blame free-spending Democrats in general, and public employee unions in particular. Everyone blames the out-of-control voter initiative system.
Whatever your politics, a look at the budget that Gov. Jerry Brown proposed last week shows how public finance in California has devolved into a virtually incomprehensible game of money-trading among government entities. Sorting that out is crucial to any broader solutions. 
Mr. Brown's first crack at the structural issues comes under the benign heading of ''realignment,'' an effort to shift responsibility for various services to local governments from the state.
In some cases the changes are primarily administrative: giving county governments full control over social services they basically run already. In other cases, like a proposed cut in state firefighting resources, they are a straightforward effort to relieve Sacramento of costly services that are more appropriately paid for locally.
More contentious is the proposal to abolish the state's 400-odd local redevelopment agencies. Originally intended to combat urban ''blight'' -- Mr. Brown himself relied heavily on redevelopment to revitalize downtown Oakland when he was mayor -- many agencies have evolved into all-purpose vehicles for gaming the state's convoluted public finance system.
The idea behind redevelopment is simple: subsidize investment in blighted areas through bond issues, then pay back the bonds with the increased property tax revenue that results. This so-called tax increment financing is widely used across the country and seems like a classic win-win -- free money created by strategic use of government power.
The trouble is that in California property values increase over long periods of time even without subsidy -- and some of the private investment that's supposed to be jump-started by the government money would have happened anyway. Cities with large redevelopment zones see an ever-increasing portion of property tax revenue flowing to the redevelopment agencies.
Since cities mostly control the redevelopment agencies, this wouldn't much matter, except for one little complication: local property tax collections are distributed by a formula (locked in place by Prop. 13) under which some goes to the city, some goes to school districts and some goes to the county and various ''special districts'' to pay for things like health care, courts and prisons.
The state, in turn, is required by constitutional mandate to assure a minimum level of financing for schools. So when all of the ''tax increment'' goes to a redevelopment agency, and the cities and counties are simultaneously prohibited by Prop. 13 from raising property taxes, the state must backfill any shortfalls in school financing.
So redevelopment agencies have become a mechanism for cities to keep a larger share of property tax revenue while squeezing the counties and forcing the state to pay up for schools. That in turn creates an incentive for cities to be expansive in their definition of blight and to extend the life of redevelopment zones that are supposed to disappear once their bonds are paid off.
Governor Brown says eliminating the agencies would both save the state money and free $1.9 billion a year for schools and local services.
The cities and redevelopment agencies are gearing up to fight his plan; among other things, they say it is unconstitutional.
As this battle plays out, there will be earnest claims about the good things that redevelopment has produced in cities like San Francisco, Oakland, San Jose and Emeryville. There will be equally earnest counterclaims about how redevelopment is supporting things like baseball stadiums and suburban auto malls and pitting communities against one another in battles to subsidize business investment.
But the real fight will have little to do with the merits of tax increment financing, and everything to do with how property tax dollars are divvied up. Mr. Brown aims to inject logic and transparency into this: If cities want to invest in urban infrastructure or spend on schools, they can choose to -- and his plan also calls for a ballot measure that would make it easier for localities to raise taxes.
If you've gotten this far, you'll probably agree that there is only one rational response to that: Godspeed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jerry Brown announced his budget on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COUNTIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); BONDS (74%); BOND ISSUES (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (71%); SCHOOL BONDS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (56%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



409 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: Clashes Go On As Power Shifts Again in Tunis

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Reporting was contributed by Mona El-Naggar from Cairo; Anthony Shadid from Beirut, Lebanon; Steven Erlanger from Paris; and Thom Shanker from Washington.

 BODY:
TUNIS -- Tanks, police officers and gangs of newly deputized young men wielding guns held the deserted streets of Tunis Saturday night after a day of sporadic rioting and gunfire. Power changed hands for the second time in 24 hours, and the swift turnabout raised new questions about what kind of government might emerge from the chaos engulfing Tunisia.
The interim government named Friday had hoped that the toppling of President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali, who fled the country, would satisfy protesters, but continued unrest Saturday made clear that they were determined to chase his allies from power as well.
Bursts of gunfire rang out through the capital all day Saturday, and a patient discharged from a major hospital here reported that the emergency room was packed with people suffering gunshot wounds. 
After a hail of machine-gun fire in the late afternoon in downtown Tunis, snipers were visible on the rooftop of the Interior Ministry, aiming down at the Boulevard Bourguiba. Human rights groups said that they had confirmed dozens of deaths at the hands of security forces even before the biggest street battle began Friday, and on Saturday residents huddled in their homes for fear of the police.
The tumbling political succession started Friday when Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi announced on state television that the president was gone and that he was taking over. Then, on Saturday morning, Mr. Ghannouchi, an ally of Mr. Ben Ali, abruptly announced that he was surrendering the reins of government to the speaker of Parliament, complying with succession rules spelled out in the Tunisian Constitution. Now the speaker, Fouad Mebazaa, is expected to hold elections to form a new government within 60 days.
The shake-up underscored the power vacuum left here after the end of Mr. Ben Ali's 23 years of authoritarian rule -- a transition of dizzying speed that Tunisians view with both hope and fear.
With Tunisia's relatively large middle class, high level of education and secular culture, some here argue that their country is poised to become the first true Arab democracy. And commentators around the Middle East pondered the potential regional implications of the success of Tunisia's protests; Mr. Ben Ali's fall marked the first time that street demonstrations had overcome an Arab autocrat. ''Will Tunisia be the first domino to fall?'' asked a headline on the Web site of the news channel Al Jazeera.
But others at home and abroad worried that Tunisia could slide into chaos, laying the groundwork for a new strongman to emerge. Mr. Ben Ali was viewed in the West as a reliable ally in the fight against the Islamic extremism flourishing in other parts of North Africa, and in Washington, national security experts said extremist groups like Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb could capitalize on the disorder to find a new foothold.
For now, though, the political field remains conspicuously empty. Mr. Ben Ali's pervasive network of secret police had succeeded in effectively eliminating or co-opting any truly viable opposition or political institution. The former president also long ago wiped away the Islamist groups that form the main grass-roots opposition in most Arab countries.
''There are very few players to keep track of,'' said Michael Koplow, an expert on Tunisia who has written about the uprising for Foreign Policy magazine. ''If there were new free elections, it is unclear whether there is anyone qualified to run who the people would accept. It is wide open.''
There is also no apparent leader or spokesman for the four-week-old protest against joblessness and government corruption that forced Mr. Ben Ali from power. The protests erupted spontaneously after the Dec. 17 suicide by self-immolation of a college-educated street vendor in the Western city of Sidi Bouzid frustrated by the lack of opportunity (the police had confiscated his wares because he did not have a permit). They spread through online social networks like Facebook and Twitter. And they accelerated as demonstrators shared homemade digital videos of each confrontation with the police.
''There are no leaders, that is the good thing,'' one protester declared Friday as thousands crowded around the Interior Ministry just before the police imposed martial law and Mr. Ben Ali left the country.
Protesters immediately turned against the unconstitutional ascension of Mr. Ghannouchi, arguing that he was a crony of Mr. Ben Ali who came from the same hometown of Sousse. It remains unclear if critics will be satisfied with the switch in power to Mr. Mebazaa, who has presided over a Parliament dominated exclusively by Mr. Ben Ali's ruling party and like almost every other Tunisian elected official, owes his career to the former president.
There were reports in Arabic news outlets this weekend that it was the Tunisian military that finally triggered the unwinding of Mr. Ben Ali's government. As the demonstrations escalated on Thursday afternoon, the country's top military official, Gen. Rachid Ammar, is said to have refused to shoot protesters.
That afternoon, the military began pulling its tanks and personnel out of downtown Tunis, leaving the police and other security forces loyal to the ruling party to take their place as President Ben Ali delivered his final speech pleading, in effect, for another chance. The tanks returned after Mr. Ben Ali left the country.
On Saturday afternoon, there were some signs that General Ammar himself may now have an eye on politics. On Facebook, a staging ground of the street revolt, almost 1,700 people had clicked that they ''like'' a Web page named ''General Rachid Ammar President'' and emblazoned with his official photographs.
Still, the Tunisian military is relatively small compared with the armies of most countries in the region and is far less pervasive here than internal security forces, and so far neither General Ammar nor any other military figure has publicly stepped forward to try to lead the country.
Meanwhile, Tunisians abroad and exiled opposition leaders reveled in the chance for a change. Several thousand Tunisians demonstrated in Paris on Saturday at the Place de la Republique calling for real democracy and celebrating Mr. Ben Ali's downfall.
Exiled opposition leaders, many of whom have lived abroad for decades in France or Britain, prepared to return in the hope of rekindling their movements. Perhaps foremost among them was Rachid al-Ghannouchi, a progressive Islamic leader who founded the Hizb al-Nahdah, or Renaissance Party. He was imprisoned twice in the 1980s and granted asylum in Britain in 1993.
''The dictatorship has fallen,'' Mr. Ghannouchi told Reuters. ''There is nothing to stop me returning to my country after 22 years of exile.''
In Egypt, critics of President Hosni Mubarak rushed to embrace the Tunisian example, noting that their country shared the combination of an autocratic ruler, rampant corruption and a large population of frustrated youth. Egyptians traded phone messages like ''Mubarak, oh, Mubarak, your plane is waiting for you!'' and posted images of the Tunisian flag to their Facebook pages. A major opposition group, led by Mohamed El Baradei, the former head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, merged the Egyptian and Tunisian flags into one on its Web site.
One group of young Egyptians set up a Facebook page calling on their fellow citizens to make January 25 ''The day of revolution against torture, poverty, corruption and unemployment.''
''If you care about Egypt, if you want your rights, join us and participate and enough silence,'' the page said.
Still, many commentators around the Arab world wondered if it might be too soon to celebrate, given the continuing violence in Tunisia and the lack of an obvious leader. ''We don't know if the Tunisia of yesterday has opened up, or is about to plunge into a deep sea of the unknown and be added to the series of Arab disasters that don't end,'' Tarek al-Hamid wrote in Asharq al-Awsat, a paper with a Saudi owner. ''No one will cry over Ben Ali, but the prayer is for Tunisia not to fall into a quagmire of crises with a bleak future.''
Saudi Arabia said Saturday that it had welcomed Mr. Ben Ali and his family. France, the former colonial power in Tunisia, made it clear that it did not want to risk inflaming its large Tunisian immigrant population by accepting the former president. And on Saturday, the French government said that members of Mr. Ben Ali's family who had taken refuge at a hotel at Disneyland Paris were not welcome either.
''Ben Ali's family members on French soil have no reason to stay,'' a government spokesman said. ''They are going to leave it.'' French media said the family members were later seen leaving the hotel.
Meanwhile, reports of unrest continued Saturday in Tunisia, with the Arab news media reporting that hundreds of prisoners were freed after a jailhouse riot in a resort town and that more than 40 were killed in a fire at another prison set by an inmate hoping to escape amid the country's chaos.
But the Tunisian airport reopened at least partially Saturday, and some in Tunis said things were looking up. Huddled in the doorway of a darkened apartment building downtown Saturday, a man in his late 20s was smoking cigarettes and watching security forces patrol the square outside. He would give only his first name, Faisal, and he said that he had been unemployed for the seven years since he graduated from college, in part because he could not afford the bribes necessary to secure a job.
He had nothing good to say about Mr. Ben Ali, but when asked about what would come out of the chaos, he shrugged and smiled.
''Look,'' he said, ''everything is going to be O.K.''
Online Correction: January 15, 2011, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated when elections are expected to be held in Tunisia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fouad Mebazaa, the speaker of Parliament, took control.
Smoked poured out of a supermarket near Tunis. Power changed hands for the second time in 24 hours on Saturday morning. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FETHI BELAID/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Soldiers guarding the center of Tunis. Elections to form a new government are expected to be held within 60 days. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE ENA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) MAP: Bursts of gunfire rang out through Tunis on Saturday. (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); RIOTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (85%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RELIGION (66%); AL-QAEDA (62%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUNISIA (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



410 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; LOCAL INTELLIGENCE; Pg. 27B

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Rosie the Riveter Memorial

BYLINE: By HANK PELLISSIER. 
hpellissier@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Women who served as military industry workers during World War II are commemorated by a sculpture in Richmond at the former Kaiser Shipyard No. 2. Twenty thousand ''Rosie the Riveters'' labored in defense factories here as Richmond's population quadrupled during the war years.HANK PELLISSIER 
Boat Builders
The memorial by Susan Schwartzenberg, a visual artist, and Cheryl Barton, a landscape architect, represents a ship's hull under construction, on a walkway that is the length of the vessel's keel. A total of 39 photographs, news clippings, postcards and other memorabilia are framed in the sculpture, with 25 walkway tiles showcasing women's quotes and historical timelines.
Quick Launching
Kaiser's four shipyards in Richmond were highly productive; they built 747 vessels from 1941 to 1945. Kaiser Shipyard No. 2 set a world record when it built the SS Robert E. Peary Liberty ship in 4 days 15 hours and 29 minutes.
Lyric Character
''Rosie the Riveter'' was originally the title of a song written in 1942 by Redd Evans and John Jacob Loeb. It became a hit in 1943 when it was recorded by several groups, including ''The Four Vagabonds,'' a St. Louis quartet.
She's Tough!
A Saturday Evening Post cover from May 29, 1943, featured a Norman Rockwell painting of an archetypal ''Rosie the Riveter.'' The heroine has thickly muscled arms, a grimy face and a foot squishing a copy of Hitler's ''Mein Kampf.''
Finding Rosies
At least four women are lauded as the ''real Rosie.'' Rose Bonavita-Hickey, a New Yorker, placed a record-setting 3,345 rivets in an Avenger torpedo-bomber; Rose Monroe riveted B-24s and B-29s in Michigan; and Rosalind Walter of Long Island built Corsair fighter planes. Geraldine Doyle, the bicep-flexing model for the ''We Can Do It!'' poster, died last month at 86.
Insurance Namesake
Henry Kaiser's first success was in the road-paving business. After he became a steel and shipbuilding magnate, he founded Kaiser Permanente, to provide health benefits for his thousands of employees.
Unfair, Then Unemployed
Women comprised 27 percent of the work force at Kaiser Shipyards during the war, performing jobs like welding, riveting and operating drill presses. But they received only 60 percent of the wages that men were paid, and when the war ended, they were replaced by returning veterans.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The memorial, at the former Kaiser Shipyard No. 2, includes photographs, news clippings and other memorabilia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); HISTORY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); BOAT BUILDING (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); CHRONOLOGIES (71%); SONG WRITING (67%)

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



411 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: The Truth and Consequences of Repeal

 BODY:
Get ready for more theater on Capitol Hill. House Republicans plan to push through legislation this week to repeal the health care reform law.
In deference to the new vows of civility, the tone of the debate may be a bit more restrained. But Republicans have already said that they will not strip the word ''killing'' from the bill -- which is titled, ''Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act.'' Civility apparently goes only so far.
While repeal will certainly pass the House, it has no chance in the Senate. So House Republicans are already planning other ways to undermine the reforms, like denying agencies enough money to hire personnel to carry out the program. 
Americans will pay a high price if opponents get their way. Reform means that tens of millions of uninsured people will get a chance at security; and many millions more who have coverage can be sure they can keep or replace it, even if they get sick or lose their jobs.
Repeal would also take away the best chance for reining in rising health care costs -- and the government's relentlessly rising Medicare burden.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that repealing the reform law would drive up the deficit by $230 billion over the first decade and much more in later years.
For all his claims of fiscal rectitude, John Boehner, the House speaker, immediately dismissed the budget experts' report as ''their opinion.'' In a particularly cynical move, Mr. Boehner and his new team have exempted the repeal bill from their own rule that any increase in spending be offset by cuts in other programs.
Many individuals and businesses are already benefiting from reform, and they will benefit even more once it goes into full effect in 2014.
Thanks to reform, it is now illegal for insurance companies to deny children coverage because they have pre-existing medical conditions, or to rescind a policy after a person becomes sick, or to cap the amount that insurers will pay for medical care over a lifetime. After 2014, it will be illegal for insurers to set annual limits on the amount they will pay for medical care or deny coverage to adults with pre-existing conditions.
Young people are now allowed to remain on their parents' policies until age 26. And insurers are now required to cover preventive care in new policies without cost-sharing, and to spend at least 80 percent of their premium income on medical care and quality improvements, not profits or administrative costs. Repeal would eliminate all of these new protections.
Repeal would also eliminate federal tax credits that are helping small businesses provide coverage to employees as well as a reinsurance program that is helping more than 4,700 employers, large and small, provide health coverage to early retirees.
Republicans are getting considerable traction with their claims that the reform law will drive up the price of insurance, and some are blaming the law for recent premium increases primarily caused by medical inflation. Once again, the official analysts and other experts disagree.
In fact, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that repeal would cause premiums for coverage obtained through large employers to rise by a bit in future years, while premiums at small employers, on average, would be little affected. Projected premiums for people who buy their own policies would come down somewhat with repeal, mostly because the policies would provide skimpier coverage than required under reform. Many people in this group would end up paying more out of their own pockets for health insurance, because they would not get the subsidies provided under the reform law.
Until now, the Republicans have dominated this debate with scare tactics and posturing. Democratic political leaders say they are finally ready to mount a vigorous campaign arguing the case for reform. They should be prepared for a long fight.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (88%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); MEDICARE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (65%); REINSURANCE (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



412 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Narrowing the Choices, Online

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to planning a vacation, travelers can either spend hours online figuring out where to go, which flights and hotels to book, and what to do when they get there, or they can call a travel agent to figure it out for them. Now, a new breed of members-only Web sites is offering something in between.
Call it the curated search. These hybrid sites aim to eliminate much of the annoyance of online trip planning by winnowing the selection of hotels and destinations to an edited list, which has been vetted to appeal to the sensibilities of affluent travelers. Instead of 600 hotels in Los Angeles, for example, you may get only 11. An added attraction: travelers are offered the personalized help of offline experts to customize their vacation.
The sites include Jetsetter.com, which this week introduced an edited list of hotels and vacations that have been reviewed by Jetsetter correspondents. Unlike the hotel deals that are offered through the site's popular flash sales, these accommodations can be booked at any time. Jetsetter is also testing a program that, for a fee of about $150, pairs members with travel writers who have been to the selected destination. 
MyLittleSwans.com, a new high-end travel site, is focused primarily on family travel with suggested itineraries for more than 30 destinations, based on vacations taken by the founder, Katrina Garnett, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur, and her family. Members can duplicate those experiences, which include camel rides in Morocco and tango lessons in Argentina, or work with the same operators and guides the family used on their trips to customize a new vacation.
NextGreatPlace.com, a start-up, is creating a matchmaking service for travelers seeking high-end vacations at screened resorts, villas and other properties. And at least one members-only site, RueLaLa.com, has teamed up with Virtuoso, an upscale travel agent network, to offer members who book luxury travel deals a free consultation with travel experts.
The sites are aimed at travelers frustrated with sites that fail to simplify the planning and booking process. ''The old infrastructure needs to be taken apart for online travel,'' said Ms. Garnett of MyLittleSwans, referring to the searches that require travelers to sift through hundreds of options. ''People are looking for what's trusted and vetted.''
Indeed, a study by Forrester Research found that in the first three months of 2010, the number of leisure travelers in the United States who liked using the Web to plan and book their vacations dropped to 47 percent, down from 53 percent in 2007. Overall the growth of online leisure travelers is expected to slow, increasing by just 3 percent between 2009 and 2014.
MyLittleSwans was partly born of Ms. Garnett's own frustrations. Booking sites, she said, didn't offer insider access, and many agents didn't have the local insight of an on-the-ground tour operator. ''I was always calling different travel agents and asking, 'Have you been there?' They'd say no. I'd know more about a place before booking a trip than they would.''
So after years of friends copying her upscale family vacations, she created the site, which lists her itineraries and puts travelers in touch with tour operators and local guides she has vetted.
NextGreatPlace.com aims to gain traveler trust by using a 300-point checklist of amenities such as air-conditioning and DVD players as a way to ensure that accommodations meet certain quality criteria.
Jetsetter's new hotel collection, dubbed Jetsetter 24/7, filters hotel options to a list of about 150 properties that include brands like Banyan Tree Hotels & Resorts and the Rocco Forte Collection and boutique hotels like the Chambers in New York. Each hotel is vetted by a Jetsetter staff member who has visited the hotel, though not necessarily anonymously. Vacations to Machu Picchu and other destinations will also be offered. Detailed reviews are posted on the site, along with pricing and availability, and a staff of 12 is on hand to assist travelers by phone or e-mail.
Jetsetter is also testing a paid planning program that pairs members with one of 200 travel journalists who have written for publications like Fodor's guidebooks or Travel & Leisure, and who can suggest itineraries and restaurants and offer other tips to help round out a trip. The fee varies by request but is expected to be $125 to $200.
The Jetsetter program, called the Expert Planning Service, is aimed at Gen Xers like Libby Sullivan, a regional sales manager for a software company in Philadelphia. She is accustomed to booking trips online, but doesn't want to spend hours planning a trip. ''My husband and I are both executives, and our time is very valuable,'' she said. ''It's too overwhelming to research this stuff.''
Ms. Sullivan recently tested the Expert Planning Service for a Miami trip. Jetsetter put her in touch with Paul Rubio, an economist turned travel journalist who has written for Fodor's guidebooks. He suggested the stylish Mondrian South Beach after hearing Ms. Sullivan's criteria. Though she has yet to take the trip, she said the recommendation ''looks absolutely spectacular. It's a small boutique, exactly what we wanted.''
Membership is easy to obtain. For example, Jetsetter members can invite anyone to join, while travelers without a friend in the network can request membership on the site. MyLittleSwans.com requires travelers simply to register.
Such sites may hold potential for travelers looking for new planning options, but they do have drawbacks. For one thing, the sites are aimed at well-heeled travelers, offering little to those on a budget. Although Jetsetter offers luxury for less through flash sales, MyLittleSwans offers potential savings by cutting out the middlemen, .
''That's great if you're someone at Goldman Sachs,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Forrester, but not ''if you are someone who has a more modest income.''
Secondly, the options might be too limited for some travelers. MyLittleSwans features roughly 35 destinations, though its recommended suppliers can plan trips in more than 80 countries. And NextGreatPlace.com, which debuted this month, has only four properties in two destinations -- Vail, Colo., and Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. Its goal is to establish 100 destinations in five years.
And while the sites specialize in the experiential side of a trip -- hunting down the perfect Italian villa, for instance -- getting there requires more work on your part. Jetsetter doesn't offer car rentals or flights. And while a travel adviser at MyLittleSwans is available 24/7 via e-mail and phone, the site doesn't handle bookings, but rather makes referrals.
So if you're looking to splurge on a vacation but find the options presented by large travel sites like Expedia or Travelocity too daunting, these curated search sites will quickly supply you with filtered recommendations so you don't have to waste hours online. But if you want to find a budget hotel in Barcelona, a search engine like Expedia, not Jetsetter, might be better.
And if you want a personal advocate in case your flight is canceled and you end up stranded at the airport instead of ensconced in that perfect Tuscan villa, better call a travel agent.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK MATCHO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); GROUP BUYING (77%); WRITERS (73%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%); MOROCCO (69%); ARGENTINA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



413 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Conducting Documentary Diplomacy

BYLINE: By JOHN ANDERSON

 BODY:
KIM A. SNYDER'S ''Welcome to Shelbyville'' is a melting-pot movie, asimmer with social issues: immigration, racism, unemployment, intolerance. Its examination of the clash between Somali Muslims and rural Tennesseeans does not sugarcoat the kinds of conflicts that have bedeviled the country for centuries; it questions, in its way, what America means. And it's been shown around the world by the United States State Department.
Propaganda is not what it used to be. As it enters its third round of bringing nonfiction American films to underserved foreign audiences, the American Documentary Showcase, a project of the State Department's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, has been full of surprises -- some for the audiences, some for the filmmakers.
''I was shocked when they picked 'Street Fight,' '' said the director Marshall Curry, whose 2005 film recounts the hard-fought 2002 mayoral contest in Newark between the entrenched Sharpe James and the unknown Cory Booker. ''I thought: 'How did this happen? Who's going to be fired when they finally see this list?' '' 
It's a list that in 2010 included ''Which Way Home,''Rebecca Cammisa's tale of freight-train-hopping children smuggling themselves into the United States; Michael Tucker and Petra Eperlein's ''How to Fold a Flag,'' about the American government's neglect of Iraq War vets; and David Novack's ''Burning the Future: Coal in America,'' about open-pit mining in Appalachia.
Not every film is so obviously weighty. ''No Subtitles Necessary: Laszlo & Vilmos'' is the story of the emigre cinematographers Laszlo Kovacs and Vilmos Zsigmond, who helped revolutionize Hollywood's visual aesthetics. But when James Chressanthis, the film's director, took it to Russia, and viewers there learned that both subjects had fled the Hungarian revolution of 1956, it provided a certain wake-up call. ''As one kid told me, 'We didn't learn this in school,' '' Mr. Chressanthis recalled.
When Ms. Snyder visited Nigeria (filmmakers are usually ''deployed'' to one location, while their films can travel elsewhere), she did a radio show, where the host asked, ''How do you ensure that your film's morals are up to standards?''
She said: ''Basically it was a censorship question. I had to think about it, and answer carefully. I didn't use the word 'censorship,' but I said, 'Well, as independent filmmakers we don't go through that process.' I might have said, 'We have freedom of speech.' I mean, we're talking about really fundamental stuff here. It was his assumption that there must be a body that determines what's morally and ethically sound. As cynical as you might be, you walk away thinking, 'We're pretty damn lucky.' ''
Which is precisely the point. The showcase might go about airing our dirty linen in the world's backyard, so to speak, but the subtext is American freedom of expression. The strategy epitomizes the co-option/attraction technique of the kind of ''soft diplomacy'' embraced even during the late innings of the Bush administration. (The first showcase grant, for $400,000, were made in 2008, although its first slate of films toured in 2009; the program is currently budgeted at $600,000.)
According to the State Department the showcase epitomizes Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's devotion to ''smart power,'' or the pursuit of foreign-policy goals via whatever tools one has at hand, including the arts. The program -- an echo of cold war efforts like Radio Free Europe, which courted Soviet satellite nations with American culture -- is a more subtle strategy than one might ordinarily credit to a monolithic entity like the State Department. But ''occasionally government bureaucracy can do something right,'' Maura Pally, deputy assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs, said with a laugh.
The engagement has had payoffs. ''We're actually changing lives out there,'' said Betsy McLane, the project director for the showcase and a former president of the University Film & Video Association, which administers the program for the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. She said that when ''Through Deaf Eyes,'' a film about the history of being deaf in the United States, was shown in Ecuador in 2009, ''the deaf audience said: Oh my gosh, we can form an organization, create schools for our deaf, we can be empowered, look at the example in that film. And they did.'' Some reactions reflect a kind of enlightenment. ''When I took 'Street Fight' to Israel,'' Mr. Curry said of his film, about warring black politicians, ''we showed it at a Jewish film school, and afterwards a couple of students came up and said. 'You know, the whole conflict in the United States between African-Americans is so similar to the conflict we have between the Ashkenazi and the Sephardic.' So here's this story that seems to be very specific to the United States, and Newark, and people are seeing it and relating it to their own systems.'' He laughed. ''There's no community so small it can't be cut in half and hate each other.''
But there's also nothing like film, Ms. Pally said, ''to instigate dialogue and start conversations that people wouldn't be comfortable having in another situation.'' Toward that end each showcase delegation includes a filmmaker and one or two film authorities who are supposed to expand on the films being shown.
Being put in the position of national spokesman is not something the filmmakers have had to worry about, nor have they been censored by the State Department. When Ms. Cammisa was planning to go to Honduras with ''Which Way Home'' (her field producer, Sascha Weiss, ultimately went in her place), she said, the Arizona immigrant-identification law had just been passed. ''I said to them, 'Look, the question we're going to get from all the people is about the Arizona law, and we're going to have speak freely about it,' and they were O.K. with that. They didn't censor us at all. It was great.''
Mr. Chressanthis, who is a visual artist as well as a filmmaker, will be returning soon to Vladivostok, where he showed ''Laszlo & Vilmos.'' ''I'm as critical as the next person of the government,'' he said. ''But as I told the audiences there, of course these films are critical. But that's what it means to have a democracy. I said quite directly to them that the strength of a democracy is its ability to absorb such criticism. If your system can't absorb this criticism, it's not a democracy.''
Correction: January 23, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about a State Department program that shows American documentaries around the world misspelled the given name of one of the field producers for the film ''Which Way Home,'' which is about Central American children who smuggle themselves into the United States on freight trains. Her name is Sascha Weiss, not Sasha.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Welcome to Shelbyville,'' one of the films in the American Documentary Showcase, a State Department program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG POSCHMAN) (AR11)
 ''Which Way Home,'' a film shown abroad as part of the American Documentary Showcase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HBO DOCUMENTARY FILMS) (AR13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); CENSORSHIP (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); RELIGION (72%); CHILDREN (70%); IRAQ WAR (68%); SURFACE MINING (64%); MINES & MINING (64%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%) NEW JERSEY, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (98%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



414 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; QUESTIONS FOR OSCAR B. GOODMAN; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: What Happens in Vegas

BYLINE: Interview by DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
After nearly 12 years as the mayor of Las Vegas, you hardly need to be reminded that what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas. That is, except for families. Nevada has the highest home-foreclosure rate in the country, and the median home price in the Las Vegas area has fallen to $138,000, from $317,000 in 2006. I'm the kind of guy who makes lemonade out of lemons, and I think it's a terrific opportunity. I'm not sure what you can get for that amount, but you can certainly get a beautiful home with a swimming pool in a gated community for under $200,000.
Just last month, the Las Vegas City Hall was sold to a developer that plans to lease the property to Zappos.com, the online shoe and clothing retailer. It wasn't a matter of money with me. Zappos is a subsidiary of Amazon.com. They are a work force of what Richard Florida would refer to as ''the creative class.'' 
It's not as if Zappos designs the shoes. Don't worry about that. It's 1,000 employees now, but they're talking about in 10 years having 7,000 employees working there.
You're also trying to revitalize downtown with the all-new ''mob museum,'' which opens later this year at the site of a former U.S. Post Office building and federal courthouse. We paid a dollar for the building with the understanding that we would preserve its original condition in addition to using it for museum purposes. Even though I love watercolors and porcelain, I didn't think that that would bring people downtown. So we decided that we were going to have a mob museum.
Your decision to honor the city's founding fathers, like the gangster Bugsy Siegel, is not without controversy. The Italian-American group was very upset. I appeared in front of them, and it became so hostile at one point that I told them I didn't say ''mob museum.'' I said I am going to have a ''mop museum.'' Fortunately they gave me the opportunity to escape.
You're a lawyer whose clients once included Tony (the Ant) Spilotro, and who played himself in the crime film ''Casino.'' Is it fair to describe you as a former mob attorney? I never referred to myself as a mob attorney, but when people ask me that, I say, ''I hope so, because they pay pretty good.''
The dream of turning Las Vegas into an art capital seems to have all but ended in 2008, when the Guggenheim Museum closed its space in the Venetian Hotel. Well, we have so many attractions here that when folks are on vacation, the variety of things that they like to do are perhaps more enticing than visiting a museum, which they ordinarily can do in their hometown.
Why do you always travel around with showgirls? Basically I have one showgirl who's virtually with me at all appearances and then a second one who's almost always there.
Are they in any actual shows? One is in a show, but that's not why we refer to her as the ''mayor's showgirl.''
What is a showgirl if she's not in a show? They're usually very bright, very statuesque, wearing plumage and a very skimpy, shall I say, outfit. They take my arm; they hold my gin.
Don't you think it's dated to treat a woman as a trophy? I hope my wife believes I'm a trophy.
During your time as mayor, you have spoken of your desire to create a public dialogue about legalizing prostitution. Why is that? Anybody who is smart can see the pluses of legalizing it, such as the monetary benefit, as far as tax revenue is concerned. There's also the safety factor and the health factor.
I don't think you realize the tremendous toll that prostitution takes on women. There's a viable argument as far as the toll that it takes upon women and their families and the moral aspects of it -- these are legitimate concerns. But nobody ever gets hurt talking. I think the people who are afraid to discuss something should be living on a desert island by themselves.
I could say you're living on a desert island. Or at least in the desert. But I'm not by myself. I've got adoring constituents.
INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROMAN CHO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CITIES (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); RETAILERS (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (65%); HOME PRICES (57%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (53%)

COMPANY: ZAPPOS.COM INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (56%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



415 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Send Huck Finn to College

BYLINE: By LORRIE MOORE. 
Lorrie Moore is the author, most recently, of the novel ''A Gate at the Stairs.''

 BODY:
Madison, Wis.
EVER since NewSouth Books announced it would publish a version of ''The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn'' with the ''n-word'' removed, reaction has split between traditionalists outraged at censorship and those who feel this might be a way to get teenagers, especially African-American boys, comfortable reading a literary classic. From a mother's perspective, I think both sides are mistaken.
No parent who is raising a black teenager and trying to get him to read serious fiction for his high school English class would ever argue that ''Huckleberry Finn'' is not a greatly problematic work. But the remedy is not to replace ''nigger'' with alternative terms like ''slave'' (the latter word is already in the novel and has a different meaning from ''nigger,'' so that substitution just mucks up the prose -- its meaning, its voice, its verisimilitude). The remedy is to refuse to teach this novel in high school and to wait until college -- or even graduate school -- where it can be put in proper context. 
''Huckleberry Finn'' is not an appropriate introduction to serious literature, and anyone who cannot see that has never tried putting an audio version of it on during a long car trip while an African-American teenager sits beside her and slowly, slowly slips on his noise-canceling earphones in order to listen to hip-hop.
The derogatory word is part of the problem, but not the entirety of it -- hip-hop music uses the same word. Of course, the speakers are different in each case, and the worlds they are speaking of and from are very distant from one another. The listener can tell the difference in a second. The listener knows which voice is speaking to him and which is not getting remotely close.
No novel with the word ''kike'' or ''bitch'' spelled out 200 times could or should be separated -- for purposes of irony or pedagogy -- from the attitudes that produced those words. It's also impossible that such a novel would be taught in a high school classroom. And if it were taught, student alienation might very well contribute to another breed of achievement gap.
''Huckleberry Finn'' is suited to a college course in which Twain's obsession with the 19th-century theater of American hucksterism -- the wastrel West, the rapscallion South, the economic strays and escapees of a harsh new country -- can be discussed in the context of Jim's particular story (and Huck's).
An African-American 10th grader, in someone's near-sighted attempt to get him newly appreciative of novels, does not benefit by being taken back right then to a time when a young white boy slowly realizes, sort of, the humanity of a black man, realizes that that black man is more than chattel even if that black man is also full of illogic and stereotypical superstitions.
Huck Finn refers to himself as an idiot and still finds Jim more foolish than himself. Although Twain has compassion for the affectionate Jim, he has an interest in burlesque; although he is sensitive to Jim's heartbreaking losses, he is always looking for comedy and repeatedly holds Jim up as a figure of howling fun, ridicule that is specific to his condition as a black man.
The young black American male of today, whose dignity in our public schools is not always preserved or made a priority, does not need at the start of his literary life to be immersed in an even more racist era by reading a celebrated text that exuberantly expresses everything crazy and wicked about that time -- not if one's goal is to get that teenager to like books. Huck's voice is a complicated amalgam of idioms and perspectives and is not for the inexperienced contemporary reader.
There are other books more appropriate for an introduction to serious reading. (''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' with its social-class caricatures and racially naive narrator, is not one of them.) Sherman Alexie's ''Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian,'' which vibrantly speaks to every teenager's predicament when achievement in life is at odds with the demoralized condition of his peer group, is a welcoming book for boys. There must certainly be others and their titles should be shared. Teachers I meet everywhere are always asking, How can we get boys to read? And the answer is, simply, book by book.
One reader's sensitivity always sets off someone else's defensiveness. But what would be helpful are school administrators who will break with tradition and bring more flexibility, imagination and social purpose to our high school curriculums. College, where the students have more experience with racial attitudes and literature, can do as it pleases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); CENSORSHIP (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); RAP MUSIC (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (91%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



416 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1974 words

HEADLINE: Small Moments

BYLINE: By JOYCE CAROL OATES. 
Joyce Carol Oates, professor in the Lewis Center for the Arts at Princeton University, is the author, most recently, of ''Sourland: Stories'' and the editor, with Christopher R. Beha, of ''The Ecco Anthology of Contemporary American Short Fiction.''

 BODY:
GRYPHON
New and Selected Stories
By Charles Baxter
400 pp. Pantheon Books. $27.95.
Reflecting our dazzlingly diverse culture, the contemporary American short story is virtually impossible to define. Where once the ''well crafted'' short story in the revered tradition of Henry James, Anton Chekhov and James Joyce was the predominant literary model -- an essentially realist tradition, subtle in construction and inward rather than dramatic -- now the more typical story is likely to be a first-person narration, or monologue: more akin to nonliterary sources like stand-up comedy, performance art, movies and rap music and blogs. Such prose pieces showcase distinctive ''voices'' as if fictional characters, long restrained by the highly polished language of their creators, have broken free to speak directly and sometimes aggressively to the reader -- as in boldly vernacular stories by Junot Diaz, Chuck Palahniuk, Edwidge Danticat, George Saunders, John Edgar Wideman, Denis Johnson and T. C. Boyle, among others. (Yet Edgar Allan Poe, as long ago as 1843, brilliantly gave voice to the manic and utterly convincing murderer of ''The Tell-Tale Heart'' -- perhaps genius is always our contemporary.) 
Beside these voice-driven monologues there continue to be written stories in the ''well crafted'' tradition, of which John Updike was a master, like John Cheever, William Trevor and Alice Munro: stories that move in a comparatively unhurried fashion, focusing on small yet illuminating moments of self-realization and set in recognizably ''real'' places. Contemporary writers as varied as Jhumpa Lahiri, Lorrie Moore, Richard Bausch, Richard Ford, Edward P. Jones, Russell Banks, Tobias Wolff, Louise Erdrich, Annie Proulx and Rick Bass all write in this mode, in which specific places and times, and the delineation of ''character,'' are the subject, rather than formal experimentation or virtuosity of voice.
Among these Charles Baxter has staked out an undisputed claim in the Midwest, specifically in those sprawling, flat, economically devastated states: Michigan, Minnesota and Illinois. A superficial glance into the 23 kindred stories written since the early 1980s and gathered together in ''Gryphon: New and Selected Stories'' would seem to suggest that Baxter's Midwest resembles Norman Rockwell's American heartland -- a ''Forrest Gump'' sort of place where ''obstinate cheer'' is mandatory and one would not wish to play a musical instrument well since ''excellent playing would have been faintly antisocial''; where a man sits in the ''harsh fluorescence'' of his kitchen at 3:30 in the morning telling himself doubtfully, ''I am not silly, nor am I trivial''; where an affably ditzy young woman falls in love with a stranger she sees limping through an alley and looking ''exactly like the fool in the tarot pack -- shaggy and loose-limbed, a songster at the edge of cliffs''; where a 12-year-old is ''so bored I was combing my hair just for the hell of it.'' An older woman contemplates her unfailingly nice Midwestern husband with whom she is ''fatigued'' and for whom she feels ''almost no passion . . . Estelle couldn't help herself: she was bored by people like him.'' (Estelle is not a thrilling individual, either.) A ''poor devil'' of a divorced man thinks of his former wife: ''I loved her, I'm sure, and she loved me, and I'm sure of that, too, but she has never inspired me and she has never obsessed me. . . . Emily was not my everything, and not my muse and inspiration . . . and because it was never enough, it was hateful.'' Appropriately in this landscape, language is neither showy nor minimalist -- if by ''minimalist'' we mean the edgily taut Hemingwayesque prose cultivated by Raymond Carver -- but plain, serviceable, friendly:
''In late March, at its low flood stage, the Chaska River rises up to the benches and the picnic areas in the Eurekaville city park. No one pays much attention to it anymore. . . . It's the sort of town where floods are welcome. They spill over the top banks, submerge the baseball diamond and the soccer field, soak a basement or two along Island Drive, and then recede. Usually the waters pass by lethargically.''
And:
''Most landscapes, no matter where you are, manage to keep something wild about them, but the land in southern Michigan along the Ohio border has always looked to me as if it had lost its self-respect some time ago. This goes beyond being tamed. This land has been beaten up. The industrial brass knuckles have been applied to wipe out the trees, and the corporate blackjack has stunned the soil, and what grows there -- the grasses and brush and scrub pine -- grows tentatively.''
Even the presence of a paroled wife-killer living next door isn't enough to penetrate the numbing tedium of a Midwestern suburb: ''The guy next door is a murderer who lives in a spaceship. And all I want in this life is to have a drink.'' And a young classicist is unable to free herself of memories of a lover whose sweat ''smelled like freshly broiled whitefish.''
Beneath the shadowless equanimity of Norman Rockwell's America, however, Baxter evokes something like the chilling starkness and human isolation of the work of Edward Hopper: that bleakly beautiful art in which mannequinlike figures are positioned without seeming awareness of one another, tentatively or clumsily posed, staring vacantly into space in scenes that both invite and repel nostalgia. In two of the earlier stories, ''The Would-Be Father'' and ''Horace and Margaret's Fifty-Second,'' originally published in Baxter's first story collection, ''Harmony of the World,'' the terrifying prospect of mental disintegration is dramatized: in each, an elderly woman confronts the horror of dementia, in the casual way of one of those matter-of-fact stories of Shirley Jackson that begin in all innocence and end in nightmare. (''She tried to remember what she had planned to eat for either lunch or dinner and found her way back into the living room, where she sat down in front of the television set. She saw, reflected in the dark screen, herself, in black-and-white, miniaturized.'') In the story ''Harmony of the World,'' in which two appealing young people, both failures at music, almost fall in love in quintessential romantic-comedy fashion, a young pianist heralded as a ''genius'' in his hometown is stunned to be told by a respected teacher at his music college that though he has struck ''thousands of notes'' accurately, he plays without passion, like a ''smart robot'' -- ''You are a fine student . . . but you make me sick!''
Several stories begin with disarming lightness and then turn somber, even menacing: the naively trusting young woman who falls in love with the handsome ''tarot card fool'' is warned by a former lover of his that he is violent and dangerous, but chooses to ignore the warning, preferring to remain ''drowsy and calm''; another young woman, confronted by a similar mystery man who enters her life brashly, declaring, ''We have the same soul, you and I,'' perceives in him a ''devil'' -- ''Not one of the major ones, in fact really minor, but one all the same.'' Like a number of Baxter's characters, this would-be lover is both an individual and a type:
''He seemed to be in a state of absolute concentration on something that was not there. People were getting into this style nowadays; really, nothing could outdo the urban zombie affect. It was post-anxiety. It promised a kind of death you could live with.''
In ''Shelter,'' set in Ann Arbor, Mich., one of the fabled university towns of America, a man is stricken with guilt about the increasing numbers of homeless people he sees on the streets (''This has nothing to do with good. Virtue doesn't interest me. What this is about is not feeling crazy when I see those people'') with results that upset his young son. In several stories -- ''The Disappeared,'' ''Westland,'' ''Royal Blue'' -- ordinary, seemingly normal individuals confront lunatic or visionary (or both) doppelgangers with gnomic messages: ''My soul is radioactive. . . . It's like plutonium. Don't say you weren't warned.''
''Mr. Scary,'' one of the previously uncollected stories in this volume, is reminiscent of those savagely comic stories of Flannery O'Connor involving psychopathic juveniles. Here, an obese, thoroughly obnoxious 12-year-old with ''a double chin, making him look like a preteen Rotarian,'' takes up the issue of zombie Americans with gleeful malice: ''Zombies like discount stores. . . . They eat plastic when they can't get brains.'' Along with zombies are ''replicants,'' ''pods'' and human ''garbage.'' One waits for this nasty child to erupt into violence -- but Baxter's stories are very different from O'Connor's nakedly religious allegories, for they resolutely draw back from melodrama, or drama. They often end in a curious sort of unresolved vision as if, though nothing profound has happened, all that is going to plausibly happen has happened: in this case, the obnoxious boy is humiliated in a softball game when his grandmother, playing in the outfield, accidentally catches his fly ball ''with perfect justice.'' In ''The Cousins,'' a similar reversal occurs when the genial narrator refuses to succumb to the seductive widow of an admired cousin, as assuredly he'd have done in a story by Cheever or Updike. Here instead, the Minneapolis native returns to his city and his own marriage. Playfully, he rings the doorbell, as a stranger would: ''I have loved this life so much. I was prepared to wait out there forever.'' And in the final, satirical story in the collection, ambiguously titled ''The Winner,'' an interviewer for a magazine called Success (''as Playboy always had a foldout, Success always had a Winner'') confronts a prodigiously wealthy Iowa-born capitalist who has erected an enormous private dwelling in ''Martian Embassy style'' in a valley overlooking Lake Superior -- an egomaniac of whom it's said adoringly by his vacuous but beautiful mistress:
''He's just bigger than other men. Everything about him is bigger and stronger than they are. Those herd men. All the little shmoos. So unimportant. He's just richer and smarter and more . . . beautiful than they are. He's at the top of the pyramid. The rules for the little doofuses don't apply to him.''
We expect the protagonist to be crushed by this paragon of American-macho imperviousness, but in an improbable but comic reversal, instead of interviewing his subject, the interviewer holds captive the man and his wife with a meandering, maudlin -- and wholly invented -- personal story: ''It wasn't untrue, exactly, even though it hadn't happened.''
The author of several much-admired novels, including ''First Light'' (1987), ''The Feast of Love'' (2000) and ''The Soul Thief'' (2008), a particularly timely and provocative meditation on the slipperiness of identity, Charles Baxter is a warmly disposed yet unsentimental chronicler of American lives not lived in extremis or in apocalyptic or self-conscious prose: ''There is something about the Midwest that I've tried to get into my stories,'' he told an interviewer a couple of years ago: ''the odd politeness of the people here, their secretiveness, their wish to do good.'' This is the sort of thing one says in interviews, true enough, but not the entire truth, for which prose fiction was invented. Through the whole of ''Gryphon,'' Baxter has been composing obituaries of a sort for his zombie Midwesterners, some of them poignant and disturbing, and all of them highly readable. Only near the end of the volume, as if a ''minor devil'' of his own were inspiring him, does he allow his mostly resigned, put-upon characters to exact a sort of revenge, however Midwestern-mild and temporary. As the grandmother in ''Mr. Scary'' dryly observes: ''It was boredom that had the staying power.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Baxter (PHOTOGRAPH BY KERI PICKETT)(BR16) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDRE DALOBA)(BR1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (75%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); RAP MUSIC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Gryphon: New and Selected Stories (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



417 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CONNECTICUT DINING STAR TURNS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: When TV Makes Your Diner Shine

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
TO prepare for the first showing of a segment about his tiny Venezuelan restaurant on the Food Network show ''Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives,'' Michael Young, owner and chef of Valencia Luncheria in Norwalk, said his staff prepped for a week.
''The day after it ran,'' Mr. Young said, ''was the only day we were ready for the next two months.''
Such is the yin and yang of Triple D, as it is known to many of its viewers, whose numbers, according to the show, reach 30 million a month. This 3 1/2-year-old program, with its spike-haired, high-octane, everyman-eater host, Guy Fieri, showcases affordable and unusual mom-and-pop food.
Guided by the information on flavortownusa.com, an independent Web site started by a Minnesota-based fan, Triple D devotees have packed the nation's hole-in-the-wall eating places, including 5 in Connecticut that have been lucky enough to be among the more than 400 profiled. 
In the two years since the first of about two dozen showings of his segment, Mr. Young says business has doubled for his Venezuelan beach food specialties of arepas (cornmeal cakes) and empanadas (pastry pockets), both stuffed with everything from simple queso blanco to pernil (Venezuelan pork).
''What could be bad about that?'' Mr. Young asked. But his own answer highlighted the flip side of what happens when longtime local customers who bring a restaurant to prominence are forced to compete with legions of travelers armed with information from Mr. Fieri's show or his book, methodically trying to go where he went and to eat what he ate.
''There were times we had to close,'' said Mr. Young, whose restaurant seats 24 at small tables. ''We had to close for an hour and a half and get our heads back together.''
With a high Zagat rating as well as the television publicity, the restaurant had lines that were at times 100 people long. Mr. Young is now exploring expansion opportunities. In the meantime, strategic dining is a necessity.
David Smith of Wilton, picking up three Venezuelan hot chocolates for office mates in Greenwich one weekday morning, has been coming to Valencia since it opened in 2003. While he was thrilled to see Mr. Young on television, he said, it has made getting in ''definitely a challenge.''
''We come at off-times as much as possible,'' Mr. Smith said. ''And we do a lot of take-out.''
Mr. Smith can thank people like Phil Chimblo of Norwalk and his friend Don Lynn of Stamford for his predicament. As fans of the show who have tried all the Connecticut locations it has covered, the men can attest to the mob scenes.
This day, they were polishing off a lunch of wings and burnt ends at another of the Triple D locations: Wilson's Holy Smoke BBQ in Fairfield.
''Word of mouth is subjective,'' said Mr. Lynn, who had tried Wilson's for the first time a week and half earlier after seeing it on a rerun. ''If you actually see how they're making it and you can see the way the environment is on TV, you can kind of gear whether it's your kind of place. I like to see how the food's made.''
And, Mr. Chimblo added, ''who makes it.''
It is ''all good,'' said Ed Wilson, whose indoor smoker now sports Mr. Fieri's tie-dyed-looking insignia ''Guy Ate Here.'' Mr. Wilson and the other restaurant owners in Connecticut do not know who recommended their places for the show, though the network says it does exhaustive research before showing up for a grueling two-day taping.
''Somebody called and said 'Would you like to?' '' Mr. Wilson recalled, adding, tongue in cheek, ''I said, 'Noooo, I don't want to be bothered with the Food Network.' Yeah, right.''
Now, travelers often take photos, and some even ask for Mr. Wilson's autograph. ''It's humbling,'' he said.
It also has him thinking about opening another restaurant and trying a television show of his own.
''I don't think we'd be on the map without it,'' he said of Triple D.
O'Rourke's Diner in Middletown was on the map well before its star turn with Mr. Fieri, already accustomed to long lines of customers devoted to its upscale diner fare, which includes countless egg dishes, gourmet hash combinations, French toast, pancakes and signature steamed cheeseburgers.
What changed after December 2008, when O'Rourke's became the first featured Connecticut diner on the show, was who was on those lines.
''At one time, everybody who walked in here, I knew something about them,'' said Brian O'Rourke, who in 1977 took over the vintage 1920s diner his uncle bought in 1941. ''There's days when there's 40 people in here, 30 people in line. I don't know anybody.''
Mr. O'Rourke is not complaining. ''In today's economy,'' he said, ''it was a gift.''
That is also Pete Aitkin's view. The owner of the Black Duck in Westport, a bar-restaurant on a barge under Interstate 95 and the last of the five Connecticut restaurants featured so far, he knew from his predecessors to expect a run on his giant cheese-stuffed burgers, steamers and clams casino -- all featured on the show.
Mr. Aitkin had to add staff and two tables. And, like the others, he found himself welcoming far-flung clientele, like a couple from Bourne, Mass., who came for a lunch of what Mr. Fieri had eaten on the show.
''They announced that it was well worth the trip,'' Mr. Aitkin recalled. ''I thought, 'Well, thank God for that. I'd hate to have you drive seven or eight hours round trip and be disappointed.' ''
At Super Duper Weenie, a hot-dog stand in Fairfield that makes its own relishes and other toppings, fresh soups and even chicken nuggets, Gary Zemola and John Pellegrino, the owners, had heard the stories but were still shocked by the impact of Triple D.
''The first couple of weekends after it ran, the line would go out the door down the side of the parking lot and to the street,'' Mr. Pellegrino said. ''It had to be a two-, three-hour wait.''
And then there was the thorny issue of ''the Frankenstein,'' a three-hot-dog, multirelish, cheese-and-condiment monster that Mr. Fieri created for television but was never on Super Duper's menu. It still isn't, but people request it anyway.
''Oh, boy,'' groaned Mr. Zemola, Super Duper's main chef. ''I talk people out of it.''
Mr. Zemola said he had made a few for friends, but did so when it was quiet, because it took up too much grill space and he did not consider the dish much more than ''a pile of stuff.''
But do not mistake that for a complaint. Business has stayed up 30 to 40 percent, and the catering operation is now four trucks.
''They still come in,'' Mr. Pellegrino said. ''They came in yesterday. First-timers said they saw it on the Food Network.''
The Featured Five
The five eating establishments in Connecticut featured on ''Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives,'' and their specialties:
THE BLACK DUCK 605 Riverside Avenue, Westport. (203) 227-7978; niteimage.com/clubs/BlackDuck/BlackDuckCafe.htm. Stuffed hamburgers, seafood.
O'ROURKE'S DINER 728 Main Street, Middletown. orourkesdiner.com; (860) 346-6101. Eggs, French toast, pancakes, hash, steamed cheeseburgers, homemade breads, daily specials.
SUPER DUPER WEENIE 306 Black Rock Turnpike, Fairfield. (203) 334-3647; superduperweenie.com. Grilled split hot dogs with homemade sweet and hot relishes, onion topping, chili, sauerkraut.
WILSON'S HOLY SMOKE BBQ 1851 Post Road, Fairfield. (203) 319-7427; wilsons-bbq.com. Southern-style barbecued ribs, chicken, brisket and homemade sauces and side dishes.
VALENCIA LUNCHERIA 172 Main Street, Norwalk. valencialuncheria.com; (203) 846-8009. Venezuelan beach food: arepas, empanadas, ceviche, pernil, carne mechado. Cash only.
Two additional restaurants were taped for short segments, though the show's host, Guy Fieri, was not present:
COREY'S CATSUP AND MUSTARD 623 Main Street, Manchester. (860) 432-7755; catsupandmustard.com. Scheduled showing: Feb. 28.
MERRITT CANTEEN 4355 Main Street, Bridgeport. merrittcanteen.com; (203) 372-1216. Scheduled showing: March 21.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EAT UP! Guy Fieri leaves his mark, above, on places he visits for ''Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives.'' At Valencia Luncheria in Norwalk, right, Michael Young, chef and owner, says business has doubled. Ed Wilson, below second from left, of Wilson's Holy Smoke BBQ in Fairfield, says people now ask for his autograph.
 FEATURED: John Pellegrino, above, in black shirt, of Super Duper Weenie in Fairfield, was shocked by the impact of the show on his establishment. The Black Duck in Westport, where Jay Bennett, left, tends bar, had to add staff after its segment ran. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (91%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



418 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths GOLEMBE, CARTER H

 BODY:
GOLEMBE--Carter H. Carter H. Golembe died peacefully at his home in Delray Beach, FL on December 18, 2010. He was a renowned speaker, writer, analyst and consultant to the banking industry. For over 30 years, he authored and published "The Golembe Reports," a commentary on banking issues. Born in Liberty, NY in 1924, Mr. Golembe was a veteran of WWII, and was a recipient of the Purple Heart. 
Following his military service, he earned a doctorate degree in economics from Columbia College and a law degree from George Washington University. Dr. Golembe began his career in 1951 as a financial economist with the FDIC and subsequently was employed by the American Bankers Association. In 1966, he founded a banking research and consulting firm, headquartered in Washington, DC that was nationally known and described by the head of a major banking trade association as the "Mercedes of the industry." Following the sale of Golembe Associates in 1989, he was chairman of the board of The Secura Group in DC until 1994. In 1979, he founded the International Financial Conference (IFC), an educational corporation comprised of mid-size regional banks and other international financial institutions. He served as the executive manager of the IFC for 16 years and the senior advisor to its Board of Directors until 1998. He also served for 10 years as a director of Barnett Banks of Florida. During his lifetime, he was a frequent contributor to professional journals, as well as author of numerous publications, including his co-authorship of "Federal Regulation of Banking." His most recent book, "But I Never Made a Loan," gave his take on the evolution and history of banking systems in the US. He was a true intellectual, yet could cut to the chase of a matter with his wit and insight. Mr. Golembe is survived by his wife, Patricia, his brother John of Schwetzingen, Germany, and sons: Gregory of Reston, VA and Christopher of Pompano Beach, FL; four grandchildren; four great grandchildren. A memorial service is planned in Washington for Spring 2011, followed by interment at Arlington National Cemetery. Those wishing to honor Carter's memory may consider making contributions to the Carter H. Golembe Scholarship Fund, attn: Eleanor Coufos, Columbia College, 622 West 113th St. MC 4530, New York 10025.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); VETERANS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



419 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Student Pays Tuition One Dollar At a Time

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
While tuition increases in Britain prompted violent protests last month, rising college fees rarely elicit more than shrugs among most students in the United States. 
But on Friday, a sophomore at the University of Colorado, Boulder, found a symbolic way to strike back.
The student, Nic Ramos, paid his entire spring semester tuition -- all $14,309.51 of it -- using dollar bills, a 50-cent piece and a penny.
''It kind of started as a joke,'' said Mr. Ramos, an economics major.
''But when I thought about it more,'' he said, ''it's just an absurd amount of money. I wanted to give the school a different way to look at tuition.''
It took Mr. Ramos two days to withdraw the money from several banks. He said that when he walked into the bursar's office on Friday morning with a 33-pound duffel bag full of cash, the tellers were stunned.
According to a university spokesman, Bronson Hilliard, it took three people nearly an hour to count the money.
While tuition at the university has risen in recent years, it has not increased for Mr. Ramos. Being from Sacramento, he pays the out-of-state rate, which remains the same for all four years.
Mr. Hilliard said no student in the last decade had tried to pay tuition with bills. But he said he remembered that when he was a student at the university in the 1980s, a fellow student tried to pay entirely with coins.
That student was turned away, Mr. Hilliard said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



420 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: In South Los Angeles, New Fast-Food Spots Get a 'No, Thanks'

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Driving along Crenshaw Boulevard, it is not difficult to find a place to grab a bite. At some intersections, there is a fast-food joint on each corner.
If the restaurant chains had their way in some parts of town, city officials say, no street would be without its own fast-food outlet.
Los Angeles is making one of the nation's most radical food policies permanent by effectively banning new fast-food restaurants in South Los Angeles, a huge section of the city that has significantly higher rates of poverty and obesity than other neighborhoods. 
A handful of much smaller cities have enacted similar regulations for primarily aesthetic reasons, but Los Angeles, officials say, is the first to do so as part of a public health effort. The regulations, which the City Council passed unanimously last month, are meant to encourage healthier neighborhood dining options. Supporters envision more sit-down restaurants, produce-filled grocery stores and takeout meals that center on salad rather than fries.
''If people don't have better choices or don't have the time or knowledge or curiosity, they are going to take what's there,'' said Jan Perry, a city councilwoman who represents part of South Los Angeles and pushed for the regulations. ''To say that these restaurants are not part of the problem would be foolish.''
The regulations are not quite an outright ban; existing restaurants can remain open, and exceptions are made for those opening inside a shopping center. Many mom-and-pop businesses or casual restaurants that serve equally unhealthy food can also get permits to open.
The City Council first enacted a one-year moratorium in 2008. Since then, no new stand-alone fast-food establishments have opened in the area. Instead, Ms. Perry said, the area got its first new supermarket in roughly a decade.
Bernard Parks, a city councilman who represents parts of South Los Angeles and also pushed for the change, said he was simply trying to apply land-use laws to limit fast-food restaurants the same way other communities do with bars or liquor stores.
''There are people who are accused of being the food police, of trying to control what goes into people's mouths,'' Mr. Parks said. ''But we just don't think that we need to give fast food more rights around here. We don't think our community needs to have 10 or 15 or 18 ways to eat a hamburger.''
Daniel Conway, a spokesman for the California Restaurant Association, said the limits set a ''troubling precedent'' and could ''throw up a big stop sign'' for any potential owner looking to open any kind of food business in the area.
''They have good intentions, but they have taken a kind of approach that emphasizes sticks over carrots,'' Mr. Conway said. ''We recognize your intent, but you are singling out the wrong thing right now. We basically have a target on our back.''
The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy group in Washington that has long fought against fast-food chains, is pushing for other cities, including Detroit and Philadelphia, to enact similar limits. But so far, there has been relatively little support from community leaders there.
By the council's estimate, there are nearly 1,000 fast-food restaurants in the 30 or so square miles of South Los Angeles covered by the regulations. Some 30 percent of the 750,000 residents in the area are obese, double the rate in wealthier parts of the city, according to the county's Department of Health. Residents in the area older than 65 are far more likely to receive diagnoses of diabetes or heart disease, statistics show.
A study released in 2009 by the RAND Corporation, a research group based in Santa Monica, found that the moratorium was unlikely to effectively change the rate of obesity or diabetes in the area. The study argued that rather than focus on calories that come from fast food, policy makers should instead look at junk food snacks from gas stations and convenience stores.
''People get a lot more of their discretionary and unnecessary food from there than from a fast-food restaurant,'' said Roland Sturm, a senior economist at RAND and a co-author of the study. ''A lot of this is driven by sound bites overlooking what is actually going to have an impact. People talk about this area being a food desert, but it is more like a swamp -- you are literally drowning in food, but none of it is really a good option.''
Waiting to find the perfect policy is futile, advocates for such regulations say. They compare the fight against junk food to the early efforts of antismoking initiatives. Later, policy experts can compare the regulations here to, say, New York City's ban on trans fats.
''There is something inevitable here -- you get different things going on in different places and it will just be a matter of time before it starts to have a cumulative effect,'' said Kelly D. Brownell, the director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity. ''To intervene in any one part of the system and expect a significant result is just not possible.''
A trip along Crenshaw illustrates how difficult it might be to change the eating habits of people who have grown up on meals that come with soda and fries. Carl's Jr., a popular burger chain on the West Coast, was packed in the early afternoon. A group of teenagers had stopped in on their way home from school, eager to gobble up Western Bacon Cheeseburgers -- one boy called it his ''before-dinner snack.'' Cynthia Williams and her two young children sat at another table nearby, picking at their fried chicken stars.
''This is a fun thing for them and easy for me, so how can I not come at least once a week or something like that?'' Ms. Williams said. ''When you're out, you are just going to look for the first decent thing around. If there are fewer of them, fine by me, but we're still going to go to the ones we've got now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Alina Lester, 4, and Ralph Lester, 3, at Earlez Grille in Los Angeles. The city is effectively banning new fast-food places in South Los Angeles, which has much higher rates of poverty and obesity than other areas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); FAST FOOD (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); OBESITY (72%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); POVERTY RATES (70%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); PROPERTY LAW (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (99%) CALIFORNIA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



421 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Anthony's Best Statistics May Be His Teammates'

BYLINE: By NATE SILVER

 BODY:
Carmelo Anthony, whom the Knicks are considering acquiring in a trade, is sometimes thought of as a selfish player. Indeed, he is the center of the Denver Nuggets' offense. When he is on the court for them, about 30 percent of their possessions end in Anthony's shooting, going to the foul line or committing a turnover.
And he is not much of a passer: over his career, Anthony has accumulated 3.1 assists per 36 minutes played, considerably less than the average of other high-volume scorers like Kobe Bryant (4.6 assists per 36 minutes) or LeBron James (6.2). 
In taking all of those shots, however, Anthony has also made his teammates much more efficient offensive players.
He is a controversial player among those who devote their time to analyzing basketball statistics. The reason is that although he scores a lot of points, he does not do so especially efficiently. His True Shooting Percentage, or TS% -- which accounts not just for 2-point baskets, but also for 3-point shots and drawing fouls, neither of which is a particular strength of Anthony's -- is .527 this season and .543 for his career. Those figures are roughly at the league average -- about .540 most seasons.
Anthony's True Shooting Percentage is also worse than the figures for all five of the Knicks' regular starters, including Wilson Chandler (.579), Danilo Gallinari (.600) and Landry Fields (.611), the men he might replace in the lineup. That has led some to argue that Anthony could actually represent a step backward for the Knicks.
David J. Berri, an economist at Southern Utah University who has developed a statistic called Wins Produced that places an extremely high premium on efficiency, told The Wall Street Journal that a Knicks roster with Anthony, Amar'e Stoudemire and Raymond Felton -- but without Fields or Chandler -- would win only 29 games per season.
This strikes me as implausible. The Nuggets, with a supporting cast that is not obviously any better than the one Anthony would be joining in New York, have won an average of 48 games per season since Anthony's rookie year, despite playing in the deep Western Conference. They have also been a relatively efficient offensive team.
The year before Anthony joined the Nuggets, they ranked last in the N.B.A. in offensive efficiency (points scored per possession) and won only 17 games. But their offensive-efficiency ranking shot up to eighth in the league in Anthony's rookie season and has remained roughly at that level since.
What is missing from formulas like Berri's is an accounting for what Anthony does to the rest of the Nuggets. Because he is able to score from anywhere in the court, Anthony draws attention and defenders away from his teammates, sometimes leaving them with wide-open shots. He also allows them to be more selective about the shots they choose to take, because they know that Anthony, if he has to, can usually get off a respectable shot before the 24-second clock expires.
These effects produce a profound increase in the efficiency of Anthony's supporting cast when he is on the floor. In the 135 games he played with the Nuggets, for instance, Allen Iverson's True Shooting Percentage was .559 -- much better than the .512 that Iverson, a notoriously inefficient shooter, posted outside Denver during his career.
In fact, this is true of almost every Nugget who has played a significant number of minutes with Anthony. I identified 16 players who have accumulated least 2,000 minutes with the Nuggets in seasons when Anthony was on the team, and have also played at least 2,000 minutes in the N.B.A. without Anthony (either because they were playing for a different team or because they were on the Nuggets before Anthony's rookie season). All but two of the players -- Marcus Camby and Voshon Lenard -- posted higher True Shooting Percentages playing with Anthony than without him, and on average, he improved his teammates' TS% to .550 from .512.
The effect of a player who improves his teammates' average True Shooting Percentage by .038 is extremely substantial; it works out to the team's scoring about 5 or 5.5 additional points per game solely on the basis of this efficiency gain. That, in turn, translates into about 15 additional wins per season for an average team, according to a commonly used formula. This is how Anthony creates most of his value -- not in the shots he takes, but in the ones he creates for his teammates -- and some of the ''advanced'' formulas miss it.
With that said, there is reason to question whether Anthony would have quite the same effect in New York that he has had in Denver. With a few exceptions like Iverson, the Nuggets have generally surrounded Anthony with defense-minded players like Camby who are not especially eager to shoot or who do not do so especially well. The Knicks, by contrast, are a run-and-gun team with lots of good shooters, and they rank fifth in the league in offensive efficiency.
There are some precedents for joining several high-volume scorers and seeing them thrive. When Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen joined Paul Pierce on the Celtics, for instance, all three took fewer shots, but all three were rewarded with significant increases in True Shooting Percentage. On the other hand, Dwyane Wade, LeBron James and Chris Bosh have not had an increase in their efficiency since joining on the Miami Heat, even though they are shooting a bit less often.
So there are no guarantees. One would need to consider more carefully exactly how Anthony would integrate into Knicks Coach Mike D'Antoni's offense and exactly which type of shots he would take. One would also need to think about Anthony's defense and rebounding, in which he is no standout. But upon a more careful examination, the argument that Anthony is a merely average offensive player turns out to be superficial.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The statistic True Shooting Percentage suggests that Carmelo Anthony makes teammates better. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARRY GUTIERREZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); RANKINGS (73%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DENVER NUGGETS (84%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (58%); LEBRON JAMES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%) COLORADO, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); WEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



422 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; OPENINGS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Miami to Jaipur: New Rooms That Stand Out

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

 BODY:
THE global economic forecast may be dim, but travelers can look forward to distinctiveness among the class of 2011 hotel openings. In Hong Kong, the city's tallest skyscraper will become home to a hotel. In India, a resort made of box-shaped tents will take shape. And in New York, a Latin import will have its debut. These and three other newcomers aim to inspire travel strictly for the in-house amenities, activities and design.
RITZ-CARLTON, HONG KONG 
When the hotel opens in Hong Kong's tallest building in March, the rooms at the Ritz-Carlton, Hong Kong (ritzcarlton.com) will be higher above street level than those of any other hotel in the world. Lodged in the International Commerce Center on Levels 102 through 118, the hotel will be surrounded by glass walls that ensure skyscraper views of Hong Kong Island and Victoria Harbor from all of its 312 rooms, the top-floor bar, the outdoor terrace, the gym and the pool, which has a ceiling that shows video. Even 11 spa treatment rooms on the 116th floor will have floor-to-ceiling windows that reveal the sights. Ritz-Carlton promises a casual atmosphere at its six bars and restaurants, including one with Asian tapas beside the rooftop fire pits. Doubles from 6,000 Hong Kong dollars, or $787 at 7.6 Hong Kong dollars to the U.S. dollar.
RASA
JAIPUR, INDIA
In March, just over nine miles from downtown Jaipur, the Rasa resort (sterlinghotels.com/rasa) will unveil 40 square tents with glass wall facades and canvas sides, blending modern design with nature-based tourism. Each Rasa tent will have a four-poster bed, full bathroom and a private box-shaped outdoor pavilion. In a dramatically arched dining room, the resort's restaurant serves organic produce grown on site. The futuristic compound adjoins Amer Fort, a 16th-century fortress with ornate interiors, and offers access to Kanak Vrindavan Valley, a garden popular with birders. Doubles from $360.
HOTEL MISSONI KUWAIT
KUWAIT CITY, KUWAIT
In time for Kuwait's 50th anniversary of its independence from Britain, Hotel Missoni Kuwait (hotelmissoni.com) will open in February with 169 rooms, all overlooking the Arabian Gulf. Inspired by the Missoni fashion line, known for its multicolored patterns, the design is pegged to bold color -- more than 85 different shades -- including mosaic tiles laid out in Missoni's signature zigzag stripes at the bottom of the swimming pool. Wares from restaurant china to beach towels were custom designed by Missoni for the hotel, its second, which will also host an Italian restaurant, an 18th-floor lounge serving global fare and a Six Senses Spa set to open in summer. Doubles from $320.
CORINTHIA HOTEL LONDON
Tucked into a block between Trafalgar Square and the Thames, the Corinthia Hotel London (corinthialondon.com), opening April 2, occupies a building that was originally a hotel but spent 71 years as government offices. It will contain 294 rooms, several within turrets, and all with muted color schemes and spacious marble bathrooms. A 23,000-square-foot ESPA spa provides 15 treatment rooms, a lap pool and cafe. The chef Massimo Riccioli, who runs La Rosetta in Rome, will create a seafood restaurant in the Corinthia, the ninth of the family-run, Malta-based luxury Corinthia Hotels group. Doubles from $:450, or $670 at $1.51 to the pound.
THE GREAT GETAWAY MARRAKECH HOTEL & SPA
MARRAKESH, MOROCCO
Fifteen minutes south of Marrakesh en route to the Atlas Mountains, The Great Getaway (the-great-getaway.com) aims to offer guests access to both city and country, with Land Rover tours in the surrounding desert and guided shopping excursions in the city. The 20-room compound opens in March with accommodations including mountain-view rooms in the main lodge and villas with two bedrooms and their own orange, lemon or pomegranate orchards. Four air-conditioned luxury tents include fireplaces and free-standing copper bathtubs. The nearly five-acre, clay-walled resort hosts a palm-ringed swimming pool and traditional hammam for on-site diversions. Doubles from 140 euros, or about $183 at $1.31 to the euro.
DREAM SOUTH BEACH
MIAMI
Using a star motif and sky-blue color scheme, the boutique hotelier Vikram Chatwal is bringing an ethereal sensibility to the 108-room Dream South Beach(dreamsouthbeach.com), expected to open Feb. 1. Dream connects two previously separate four-story Art Deco buildings using an entry courtyard with wall fountains and bamboo plants, and a rooftop walkway. Frosty-blue-hued rooms feature hanging crystal light fixtures, etched mirrors and geometric-patterned headboards. The chef Todd English will manage food and beverage operations, which cover the lobby restaurant, the rooftop poolside lounge and the minibar goodies. Doubles from $275.
HOTEL AMERICANO
NEW YORK
The Mexico-based Grupo Habita runs stylish hotels in Acapulco, Playa del Carmen, Puebla and Mexico City. In March it plans to make its debut north of the border with the 56-room Hotel Americano (www.hotel-americano.com), on 27th Street in Chelsea, near the second phase of the High Line elevated promenade, which is also scheduled to open this spring. The Mexican architect Enrique Norten designed the 10-story building, and the French designer Arnaud Montigny has outfitted the minimalist interiors with glass-enclosed showers, concrete floors and platform beds. Most amenities -- a contemporary Latin-accented French bistro, two subterranean bars and a rooftop pool and lounge -- will open by summer, when visitors will be able to walk off a meal or drinks on the promenade. Though rates have not been set, the company said it expects doubles to start around $325.
ROSEWOOD SAN MIGUEL DE ALLENDE
SAN MIGUEL DE ALLENDE, MEXICO
Americans have been going to San Miguel de Allende, in Mexico's central highlands, since the 1950s, when military veterans found that their G.I. Bill benefits were good for tuition at the Instituto Allende. The Rosewood San Miguel de Allende (rosewoodsanmiguel.com) has carved out a 13-acre enclave behind the art-centric school, where on Feb. 8 it is opening 67 rooms featuring beamed ceilings and outdoor patios or terraces. The colonial-inspired compound will also include a rooftop tapas bar framing views of the town cathedral, two swimming pools and a spa with five treatment rooms. And the resort offers its own educational opportunity: the chef will teach Mexican cooking. Through April 20, doubles from $295, including breakfast.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 30, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Jan. 16 about eight particularly distinctive hotels around the world opening this year misspelled the surname of the French designer who was responsible for the interiors of the Hotel Americano in Chelsea. He is Arnaud Montigny, not Martigny.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABOVE: Blue-hued rooms at the Dream South Beach, expected to open Feb. 1. ABOVE LEFT: The Rasa in Jaipur, shown in a rendering, will unveil its canvas and glass tents in March. left A room at the Rosewood San Miguel de Allende, opening next month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID DURBAK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RESORTS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (67%); CURRENCIES (65%); BIRDING (63%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (92%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) HONG KONG (96%); KUWAIT (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); GULF STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2011



423 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4678 words

HEADLINE: THE WILL TO DRILL

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WALLACE-WELLS. 
Benjamin Wallace-Wells is a contributing writer for the magazine and a Schwartz fellow at the New America Foundation. His last article for the magazine was about the legal scholar Cass Sunstein.

 BODY:
Oilmen are optimists, by creed if not always by nature, and early last spring things looked, as those in the industry like to say, prospective. The deepwater rigs in the Gulf of Mexico were steadily drilling, with no suggestion of any impending calamity, and oil was flowing from the vast finds in offshore Brazil. Circumstances looked particularly prospective to a geophysicist named Jim Farnsworth, who works for Cobalt International Energy, a company that held a group of leases 50 miles from the mouth of Angola's Cuanza River basin. It was at that site, he had come to believe, that an enormous basin of oil lay, beneath an obscuring layer of salt, in rocks deep below the bottom of the sea. The industry had been over this territory a decade earlier; a few scattered wells were drilled into the Cuanza basin, and then, having found little oil, the companies plugged them. In seismic images, you could still see the pipes, running through the sediment of the ocean floor. 
Farnsworth said he thought those wells hadn't gone nearly deep enough. He had his eyes on a buried ridge that lay some three miles below the ocean surface. His team of geologists thought a multibillion-barrel oil field was running along the crest of the ridge. They had worked over the seismic images, processing and reprocessing them until the feature came looming into view. ''In all my years as an explorer, you don't see structures that big very often,'' Farnsworth told me. No one knew if it actually held oil. But Cobalt acquired the leases and named the prospect Gold Dust.
I first met Farnsworth in August, at Cobalt's Houston offices, as his team was preparing to travel to Luanda, to make its final presentation to the Angolan government before it drilled. As best as Cobalt's scientists could figure, Gold Dust displayed near-perfect conditions for gathering oil. The shape of the basin suggested a lake, dried and pinned against the slope of the ridge. In the images were a set of features that looked like branches on a tree; they could have once been the fingers of a delta that fed carbon-rich sediment down into the lake some 150 million years ago. If that was the case, all of that prehistoric carbon would have spent millennia transforming into oil. An outside team had come to examine the data Cobalt assembled for Gold Dust; if the ridge held oil, the scientists concluded, it would likely hold between three billion and six billion barrels of it.
Oil exploration has an unexpected quality of whimsy. The artistry lies in acts of narrative imagination, the ability to take disparate wisps of data and insist that oil must exist in a particular spot and then to entice a company with your enthusiasm. The independent assessor's figures put the chance of a strike at 1 in 3, and Cobalt estimated that drilling a single exploratory well in that region would cost $100 million. Those are strong odds in the industry, 1 in 3, because the success rate for exploratory wells is generally between 10 and 30 percent. But still, the well would most likely fail. ''I think it's a great story,'' Farnsworth said, but ''you can get caught up in the enthusiasm.'' Yet if no one ever got caught up in the enthusiasm, nothing would ever be drilled.
Oil reserves have been declining for a decade, and it is an article of faith among petroleum geologists that the easy oil -- easier to find, less complicated to drill -- has all been extracted and that the explorers are now into the hard oil. When the Deepwater Horizon rig, drilling an exploratory well deep into rock through a mile of water and three miles into the ocean floor off the Louisiana coast, struck a highly pressurized pocket of oil and gas, causing an explosion, it was in some ways a consequence of this iterative, competitive game, each generation of discoveries pushing further into the unknown.
A few years ago, the industry norm was to drill at depths of 15,000 or 20,000 feet. Now the frontier is 35,000 feet, where engineers find higher temperatures and pressures. ''The scarcity of new reserves has been driving companies into plays that have previously been seen as extremely high risk and high cost,'' said Brian Maxted, the chief executive officer of Kosmos Energy, a deepwater-exploration company in Dallas. ''The trend recently has been in going toward ever-deeper waters and ever-more challenging environments.''
These circumstances have also subtly redefined what it means to be a wildcatter and changed too the oilman's relationship with risk. There are still a few relics in the industry who fit the old image -- flamboyant, big-talking backslappers -- but Farnsworth, who was lured to Cobalt from a job running worldwide exploration for BP, is pretty much the opposite of all that. He is neat, controlled and a bit of a worrier; his mind is filled with probability ratios. ''Everything we do is managing risk,'' he told me. It's also about managing his disappointments. ''Frankly, what I remember are the stupid dry holes I drilled,'' he said. Part of this is perhaps inherited; three generations of Farnsworths before him worked in steel, and they may have bequeathed a sensitivity to the ways in which majestic industries decline and their certainties fade. But it has made him well suited for this moment, when the finds have become harder and exploration is stalked by doubt.
What concerned Cobalt executives about Gold Dust was that the rock at these depths might have been too compressed -- by the pressure of the overlying sediment -- to make it a good reservoir for oil. Oil needs to find light, porous reservoir rock so that it has a place to collect. Currently, there is no way to examine the deep Angolan geology directly, but a former Cobalt geologist named Mike Lentini believed he had found a convincing analogy. Geologists know that the rocks on the Brazilian coast are close relatives to the deep Angolan rocks -- these rocks were formed eons ago at the same time and in the same place. In 2002, Lentini was on the Brazilian coast, and he saw rock that was strikingly light and porous -- the perfect reservoir for oil. If the relationship between the geologic history of Brazil and Angola was as precise as Lentini thought it was, then the Angolan rock that Cobalt hoped to drill into might still hold oil. It was a conditional, hopeful insight. But it was enough to get Cobalt into this region of Angola a little bit early and win the pick of prospects. Knowing the details of Brazil's geology, Lentini told me, ''was like having the Rosetta Stone.'' It gave the industry license to dream; analysts soon speculated that the finds off Angola might compare with the giant ones off Brazil.
The possibility of a boom commands particular attention now, because the industry's faith in a limitless future has begun to diminish. The International Energy Agency -- which had until recently been optimistic about oil -- concluded last fall that the world has very likely already passed its peak oil production.
''The deepwater was one of the last big exploration plays on the planet,'' says Gerald Kepes, a partner and head of upstream and gas at PFC Energy, a consulting firm. ''We're now looking at the second half of the global deepwater play. You can see the end of it, maybe 25 years from now.''
This is not the only way of looking at the data; other analysts, recalling the technological advances and the unforeseen finds that have marked exploration's history, are more positive. But that optimism also depends, in some part, on whether the mass of subsalt off Angola's coast approaches the size of that off Brazil's. And the first clues to answer that question will be revealed, in part, by what Cobalt finds at Gold Dust.
Each exploration geologist has his own imagined map laid on top of the real one, pinpointing where he believes the globe's undiscovered hydrocarbons -- its oil and its gas -- must lie. The maps concentrate on the earth's tectonic margins and -- in the deep water -- on those areas downslope of the deltas that empty the earth's largest rivers. ''Big rivers'' -- the drainage basins for the continents -- ''are usually where you begin,'' says Dan Worrall, who was a top exploration geologist at Shell.
Oil is generated deep in the earth, from the crushed remains of the continent's rotting organic matter -- phytoplankton, plants, algae. Over millions of years, given the presence of precisely the right time, temperature and pressure, this material can cook into oil. The hydrocarbons in the Gulf of Mexico were bequeathed by the Mississippi River and the ancient rivers that preceded it; those lying off Angola's shore were deposited by the Congo River and its forerunners, as well as older lakes; and those off Nigeria, by the Niger River. Oil is a product of ancient life.
But these conditions are rarely found in neat balance. Oil requires three elements: the charge (the oil itself), a reservoir (a layer of rock as porous as patio flagstone, into which oil can flow) and a trap (most often a subterranean fault, which physically keeps the oil from leaking). If a river has dumped too much sediment on top of the remains of ancient algae, it will overcook the matter and turn oil first into natural gas and then into unusable material. Too little sediment means no oil at all. These are rare and precise conditions, and there are only a few rivers big enough to produce what explorers call the elephants, the finds large enough to justify the enormous costs of deepwater drilling. And so the elephant hunt takes place on a concentrated, focused map, and any suggestion of a new basin brings great attention.
For most of the last two decades, offshore Ghana was written off. Even the crudest measures were able to detect seeps of oil, emerging from cracks in the earth. Yet there was no obvious geologic feature that might trap the oil, and the area was thick with dry holes -- what had been there, geologists were convinced, had long ago leached away into the ocean or remained trapped in accumulations too small to be economically recoverable. But Maxted and the other scientists at Kosmos, one of Cobalt's competitors, saw something in the plate tectonics and geology that looked promising: a ''pinchout'' of rock along the continental shelf, where Maxted thought the rock character may have shifted, trapping oil inside. There were none of the more obvious geologic lures -- faults, young rock -- which is why most companies had passed Ghana by. They named the prospect Jubilee; it is one of the most significant finds of the last few years. ''We blew Ghana off; the industry blew it off,'' Scott Sumner, a former Cobalt geologist, told me. ''We forgot Jed Clampett, 'Beverly Hillbillies' geology: If you see an oil seep, drill.''
But strikes of this magnitude are comparatively rare. According to United States Geological Survey data, the earth, as it was before oil companies started drilling, held between five trillion and six trillion barrels of oil, most of which has been discovered or remains inaccessible. In 2000, the U.S.G.S. estimated that there were around 650 billion barrels on the planet yet to be found, and most analysts say that the estimate is a pretty good one. ''We may still see some new basins on the scale of offshore Ghana,'' Kepes, of PFC Energy, says. ''But there aren't going to be new Gulfs of Mexico or Nigerias that we haven't yet discovered.''
These legendary basins have sustained careers for the life of the industry. The seduction of the Gulf of Mexico has always been its complexity -- the physics of continental shift compressed into a small, enclosed basin. The gulf has been the laboratory in which explorers experimented with the deep -- they call it the GOM, as if it were a discarded character from Tolkien. The first deepwater play came in minibasins on the slope that had caught young sands as they tumbled out of the ancient Mississippi; now there are the Perdido folds, in very deep water, that bunched up like a rug on a slick floor, trapping oil underneath. This play depends upon a compacted sheet of sandstone and shale deposited here approximately 50 million years ago by the uplift that produced the Rocky Mountains and, almost as an afterthought, sent an anaconda of sediment sliding down toward Texas and out into the sea. The depths here are so extreme that Shell, which operates the enormous Perdido field, has moved more equipment to the sea floor. The wells extend out -- each one long and flexible, like the legs of a mantis -- over an area as large as metro New Orleans.
''We've got four, five, six years left in the Gulf of Mexico,'' James Painter, who leads Cobalt's team there, told me. He could imagine a couple of possibilities beyond that, but neither was perfect -- there were very likely to be gas fields deep underneath the continental shelf, where high pressures make drilling very complicated, and there might be a Cretaceous play left in the gulf, though that was iffy. ''In my mind, we've got one more shot,'' he said.
Last February, Richard Sears, a geophysicist who was vice president for exploration and deepwater technical evaluation at Shell and is now senior science adviser to the National Oil Spill Commission, appeared at the TED ideas conference in Long Beach, Calif., to give a talk about the future of energy. Sears says that there are between 30 and 50 years left before a broad gap opens between worldwide oil supply and demand. It is hard, he says, to describe a situation that is either a lot more optimistic or pessimistic than that. At TED, Sears held up a pincushion of the globe, with red thumbtacks stuck in. Each thumbtack represented an oil basin. ''This is it,'' he said. ''This is the oil in the world. Geologists have a pretty good idea of where it is.''
These last 650 billion barrels are the hardest. ''There are still some areas -- Iran or Iraq or Russia -- where you can literally fly over in a plane and see big structures lying right out there, and they are undrilled,'' Farnsworth told me. But much of that territory has been reserved for national oil companies, and so in the last decade 43 percent of the industry's new reserves have come from the deep water. ''It's gotten harder all along. And the structures, generally, have gotten smaller.''
But as the map has compressed, and the possibility of finding new basins has dwindled, explorers have returned their attention to the regions where vast deposits of oil have already been found, in the belief that new technologies might allow them to drill deeper. These aspirations drove new finds earlier this decade in offshore Brazil, and the continued work in the Gulf of Mexico. They also compelled the industry toward Angola, where Western oil companies have sustained production onshore and in shallow water for decades, even through a long civil war. There had been some deepwater exploration and production, but few had looked beneath the broad layers of salt.
Salt, in the deep water, is the hydrocarbons' shroud, the mask that obscures the prize. Geologists use seismic instruments to map the earth's layers -- shooting pulses of compressed air down into the subsurface and measuring the time it takes for the sound to travel back to the surface. But salt -- the evaporates of ancient oceans, trapped deep in the rock -- scatters the signal. And so for years the zones that interested oil companies looked like blurred daubs underneath the thick aprons of salt -- it was difficult to distinguish sedimentary layers or to scout for traps. Companies left those areas alone and explored where they could see. By the middle of the decade, though, seismic techniques were finally becoming refined enough to permit companies to make out the details of subsalt geology. ''In the Gulf of Mexico, deepwater is more or less a subsalt business right now,'' Keith Jantz, a geophysicist at Cobalt, says.
In 2006, geologists working underneath salt layers in Brazil's Santos basin discovered the Tupi Field -- so vast that it prompted Brazil's president at the time, Luiz Inacio da Silva, to compare it to a ''second independence.'' If finds of this size could now be detected below the Brazilian salt, then perhaps they could be found in Angola too.
But pinpointing an exact location is painstaking work. For the better part of a year and a half, Jantz and a few other geologists had been staring at the seismic images of a prospect off Brazil called Aegean, for which Cobalt holds a lease and is planning to drill. Like Gold Dust, Aegean lies underneath a layer of salt. To detect features underneath the salt, a seismic boat is sent out, towing an array of receivers along several five-mile-long cables. The crew shoots compressed air into the subsurface at intervals of 123 feet and measures the reflection's velocity. The resulting picture looks like static on an old television. But now, after a year of processing, the image looked more like a fingerprint, with ridges and valleys, and you could make out what was attractive about the prospect in the first place: a series of features 30,000 feet below the sea. The fault, Jantz hoped, formed a trap for oil.
In the area where Cobalt planned to drill, there was a deposit that Jantz thought might be shale. While they're drilling, if the engineers expect to encounter one substance and suddenly hit another, it could cause problems. Another geophysicist, Roland Chen, mentioned a recent such surprise that took millions of dollars' worth of drilling muds in order to unstick the pipe. Jantz, it turned out, worked on that project.
''I heard they should have known from the seismic,'' Chen said.
''They should have known,'' Jantz said.
What troubled Chen and Jantz about the Aegean prospect was the difficulty they were having resolving the boundary line that separated what they thought was good reservoir rock, rich in oil, from what they thought was salt. On the image, the boundary looked nearly vertical. ''Industry experience is that seismic images below salt have trouble with angles over 50 degrees,'' Jantz pointed out; he was worried that, in the real world, the delineation between salt and sediment interference might be very steep. The scientists worked over the image -- examining it from different angles, separating out data to make a partial image. For long periods of time they stared silently at the projection, in a dark conference room, willing the earth to reveal itself. It didn't.
This kind of uncertainty clouds most new projects. One geologist told me he would show me the tools he used to find oil when all else failed; he then produced a divining rod and a crystal ball. It was a joke, but one made frequently enough that he had a divining rod and a crystal ball lying around. The essential mystery of exploration -- that it is impossible to know precisely what exists below until you begin to drill -- and the push into more complicated depths and environments mean that an engineer often has only a dim read on what he is drilling into: unexpected pressures, slopes and formations. The enduring oddity of the Deepwater Horizon spill was that it took place in a prospect where major problems seemed unlikely -- comparatively shallow, very well mapped, mature.
''It's frustrating to me,'' Farnsworth told me. ''It's never going to change, but the general public always thinks, I should be able to get a gallon of gasoline, and it should be damn cheap, and whether I choose to drive a 10-mile-per-gallon car or a 40-mile-per-gallon car should have no impact on that price. We know how hard it is to explore for oil, and we know how hard it is to get it out of the deep water. And there's been this incredible disconnect, which might have been lessened by the spill, between what people think it takes to get gasoline in their car and what we do.''
There is an element of uncertainty in every complicated engineering endeavor. ''In July 2003, in the Pacific, a Japanese fishing boat was sunk by a flying cow,'' Robert Bea told me. Bea is a professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, and a leading scholar of risk; he also spent many years working in research and management at Shell. The cow, it turned out, was part of an illegal cattle shipment bound from Anchorage to Russia; as the plane approached its destination the smugglers became nervous about their cargo and began shoving it out of the plane. ''No risk analysis can ever be complete. No one can predict a flying cow.''
Drilling engineers suffer from the tyrannies of darkness and depth, and these conditions limit what they can do when these systems do fail. ''The real problem with going so deep is not that the possibility of failure is greater,'' Bea said. ''But if something does fail, the consequences are so much greater. In shallow water, you can physically contain a spill. But at this kind of depth that becomes dramatically more difficult.''
I visited Houston late last summer, and though the hole in BP's well had been filled, the industry's executives still seemed wary and grim. The rigs that could move had largely gone overseas, and those that couldn't were sitting motionless in the gulf. The fallout from the spill ''will change how we explore,'' says Joseph Bryant, chairman and C.E.O. of Cobalt. Stricter regulations mean that ''it will take much longer to do the same things.'' Large companies have the resources to wait, but wildcatting independents don't. ''To play the game now, you'll need a deep portfolio of opportunity spread out over years,'' he says. ''If you want to be an explorer in the gulf, you can't just drill one well anymore.''
Bryant shattered his knee a few days earlier, when the horse he was leading across a Wyoming stream got spooked and jumped into him, smashing the executive against a rock. ''This is an insensitive thing to say, but I'll say it anyway,'' Bryant said. ''When all the dust has settled on [Deepwater Horizon] -- and believe me, no one's felt the pain more than I have -- people will start remembering all those ghastly images of the oil coming out of that well and start thinking that's 10 million dollars a day flying out the end of that pipe. That's a lot of money.''
One of the oddities of oil exploration is that its climactic event -- the moment when an exploratory well is sunk into the earth and the drill bit comes into contact with oil -- happens in extreme sequestration, and the geologists who have spent years preparing the prospect, obsessing over it, are reduced to watching online, from halfway around the globe. The industry practice is to attach instruments to the drill bit as it burrows through the rock, and so the geologists watch the data stream in real time, hoping to see signs of a strike but often seeing nothing at all. The interim is just a long hesitation, in which they find themselves obsessing over stray bits of information.
The geologists at Cobalt had been trying to figure out, in the analog way of exploration, how anomalous Gold Dust was. In Brazil and elsewhere in Angola, they found that companies' probing underneath the salt had detected similar carbonate mounds, formed from the collections of aquatic life that collected in ancient lakes buried deep in the rock. The details of the shapes he thought he could see on seismic images of Gold Dust corresponded nicely with mounds that produced oil elsewhere. But still, the percentages hadn't changed. The likelihood of a strike was still 30 percent.
Throughout the summer and fall, with their drilling operations in the gulf suspended, the companies worked on their portfolios, processing and refining their seismic images, reranking their prospects. By the late fall, the remote Cuanza basin had become the site of a rush. Three months earlier, Cobalt was just about the only company in. Now the Angolan government is putting up more territory for lease, and analysts at Morgan-Stanley expect bids approaching $1 billion. But Cobalt had seen Gold Dust early, and it has already leased a rig to drill the prospect -- which the Angolan government has since renamed Bicuar, after a national park -- this spring. The moratorium in the gulf helped to concentrate the industry's attention on Angola, and the Cobalt prospects, Bank of America's oil industry analysts concluded, became pivotal -- the ''key to determine the validity of Angolan pre-salt.''
Farnsworth wasn't convinced that Cobalt would strike at Gold Dust, but he was convinced that there was oil somewhere beneath the Angolan salt layer. This well, the first drilled into the play, functions in some ways as a $100 million probe into the geology. His team had been working the prospect for years, and a certain obsessive antsiness had set in. Throughout the fall, Cobalt's scientists studied previous wells drilled into carbonate mounds -- in West Texas, in Brazil -- to learn what tools were needed to test how good the reservoir rock was, how perfectly the prospect sealed. They had for months continued to fret over where, precisely, to locate the well. ''In my view, and I've heard this from a lot of people,'' Farnsworth said, ''these will be the most closely watched wells drilled this year.''
Luanda, Angola's capital, has become a testament to what oil can bring. A few years ago the city was just emerging from decades of civil war. Now the streets are filled with cars, and for ex-pats, rents can be more expensive than in London. On a long spit of land called Ilha de Luanda, the beach is lined with cafes, and it is possible for the oil workers who congregate there in the evenings to imagine that they are on the opposite side of the Atlantic, in Rio de Janeiro -- where they would find a comfortingly similar geology.
The oil industry has always fit perfectly in the American Southwest. It has inherited the region's frontier ethos -- blunt, optimistic and aggressive -- and turned it into something associated not with cultural relics but with technology and success. Oilmen of Farnsworth's generation have spent their careers spreading this ethic to boomtowns around the world, along with the hopeful feeling of infinite possibility. ''I think a lot of that optimism is ingrained in us,'' Farnsworth said. ''We don't always think about the macro effect of the deepwater exploration tailing off in the next 30 years. We think about how can we make new discoveries and how can we do it better than the other guy.''
I asked Farnsworth what he thought would happen to exploration. One possibility, he said, was that explorers would wind up in the more mundane parts of the business, refining the placement of wells and helping to guide the drill bit. ''You can see some of that onshore, where explorers are shifting to almost a mechanical approach,'' he said. But beyond the gulf, he said, there were maybe one or two more generations of real exploration work to be done -- of new basins, of opening plays. It was possible to be an optimist for just a little longer. ''There's a whole rest of the world out there.''
Photograph By Mark Peterson Jim Farnsworth of Cobalt International Energy, which may have found a large oil reserve off the coast of Angola.
Until about 200 million years ago, Africa and South America were part of onesupercontinent. Here is the age progression of the sea floor during the formation of modern continents -- red areas are the newest, violet the oldest.
A 3-D rendering, compiled from seismic data, showing four of Cobalt'sdeepwater drilling sites (including Bicuar, formerly known as Gold Dust) off the coast of Angola.The oil is thought to be two miles beneath the ocean floor, below a layer of salt.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Jan. 16 about drilling for oil off the coast of Angola erroneously reported a story about cows falling from planes, as an example of risks in any engineering endeavor.No cows, smuggled or otherwise, ever fell from a plane into a Japanese fishing rig. The story is an urban legend, and versions of it have been reported in Scotland, Germany, Russia and other locations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jim Farnsworth of Cobalt International Energy, which may have found a large oil reserve off the coast of Angola. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK PETERSON) (MM38-MM39) GRAPHICS: THE AGE OF THE OCEAN FLOOR: Until about 200 million years ago, Africa and South America were part of one supercontinent. Here is the age progression of the sea floor during the formation of modern continents -- red areas are the newest, violet the oldest. (GRAPHIC BY ELLIOT LIM/COOPERATIVE INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH I N ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES , NOAA NATIONAL GEOPHYSICAL DATA CENTER) (MM41)
 COBALT'S TREASURE MAP: A 3-D rendering, compiled from seismic data, showing four of Cobalt's deepwater drilling sites (including Bicuar, formerly known as Gold Dust) off the coast of Angola. The oil is thought to be two miles beneath the ocean floor, below a layer of salt. (GRAPHIC BY WESTERNGECO AND SONANGOL) (MM42) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCEANS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); RIVERS (75%)

COMPANY: COBALT INTERNATIONAL ENERGY INC (57%)

TICKER: CIE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) BRAZIL (92%); ANGOLA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2011



424 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Amid Cuts, Public Colleges Step Up Appeals to Alumni

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
As state legislatures cut back support for higher education, public colleges and universities across the country are turning to their alumni, hat in hand, as never before -- hiring consultants, hunting down graduates and mobilizing student phone banks to raise private money in amounts they once thought impossible.
But many find themselves arriving late to the game, particularly in the Northeast, where state governments have traditionally been generous and a host of private colleges have dominated the quest for donations.
The rush to catch up has placed public campuses in an awkward stance: cutting academic programs and instructors at the same time they are expanding development staffs and investing in a fund-raising infrastructure. And for some, the challenges run far deeper than honing their sales pitches. 
A culture of class reunions and identification with one's graduating class -- the ethos of belonging and giving back that has been ingrained at many private colleges for generations -- is less developed at most public universities. While there are exceptions, alumni networks at public universities are not quite as deep-pocketed as those in the private sphere.
''Rutgers is not a rich kid's school,'' said Richard L. McCormick, the president of the New Jersey university, which kicked off a $1 billion fund-raising campaign in October. ''Many of our students do very well, don't get me wrong. But we don't have the advantage of as many multimillionaires among our alumni as the private colleges do.''
Perhaps the biggest task, administrators say, is simply making alumni and other potential donors aware that public campuses can no longer get by on public money.
When the State University of New York at Geneseo surveyed its alumni three years ago as part of a plan to increase fund-raising, the initial response was heartening. Former students described their time there with words like ''love'' and ''the best four years.'' Then came what one administrator, Michael J. Catillaz, called ''the cold shower.'' Asked if they would donate, almost all said they thought the university was financed entirely by the state. The state's contribution was actually 25 percent, and it has been dropping ever since.
''Inviting alumni in large numbers to actively support the college is a foreign notion,'' said Mr. Catillaz, the vice president for college advancement.
Yet there is danger in emphasizing the loss of state support. Fund-raising experts estimate that at most colleges, more than 90 percent of private donations come from a small segment of wealthy alumni, in large gifts that are almost always earmarked for a lofty purpose, like a new academic building or endowed chair.
''Donors do not want to be seen as there to make up a state budget shortfall,'' said John Lippincott, president of the Council for Advancement and Support of Education. ''They want to know that their contributions will make a difference, and making a difference is not lighting the lights and heating the buildings.''
Despite those hurdles, officials of public institutions say that tapping philanthropy has become a chief priority. At SUNY, where the state has cut $674 million, or 30 percent, from the system's operating budget in three years, the chancellor, Nancy L. Zimpher, recently held what she called a ''summit meeting'' in Manhattan for fund-raising officials from the 64 campuses.
The meeting was meant, in part, to celebrate the conclusion of a $3 billion campaign, actually a collection of individual campus efforts. But it was also a rallying cry to put some serious muscle into the next drive, yet to be announced. ''Was SUNY late coming to the table? Absolutely,'' Dr. Zimpher said. ''But our ambitions are now equal to those of other public universities.''
SUNY, in fact, was prohibited from mounting fund-raising campaigns when it was created in the early 1960s, to allay fears that the new system would compete with private colleges, she said. ''That is unlike anything I understand about public education where I come from,'' said Dr. Zimpher, who was previously president of the University of Cincinnati.
Indeed, in parts of the country where public colleges dominate higher education, large institutions like the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Washington and the University of Michigan have for decades run big, ambitious fund drives.
But now smaller public institutions are joining in. Donald M. Fellows, president of Marts & Lundy, a national firm that advises nonprofit institutions like hospitals and museums on raising money, said public higher education was the only field in which his company had not lost business during the recession. ''You have this whole other tier coming on,'' Mr. Fellows said. ''It's hard to make the decision to invest in something like this when you're cutting your core, but you do have to invest in that to get the payback.''
San Diego State University has made the gamble. While placing staff members on furlough and increasing student fees, it is halfway through its first fund-raising campaign, with a goal of $500 million, and raised $11 million to open an alumni center a year ago.
''Alumni now have a place to come home to,'' said Mary Ruth Carleton, vice president for university relations and development. ''It was a catalyst and convinced a lot of our alums and board members that we could be successful with a campaign.''
A decade ago, the 23 colleges and professional schools in the City University of New York were raising $50 million a year collectively. Today, that figure is $200 million, and officials have set a goal of $3 billion by 2015.
Matthew Goldstein, CUNY's chancellor, said he had made the presidents' track records at gathering money an important part of their annual performance reviews. ''Everybody has gotten the directive that fund-raising needs to be a fundamental activity,'' he said.
In many places, that mission filters down to undergraduates, who cold-call potential donors. At Stony Brook University, one of SUNY's four research universities, alumni meet often with students on the Long Island campus to build a feeling of community.
''It's a cultural change,'' said Samuel L. Stanley Jr., president of Stony Brook, which just wrapped up a $360 million campaign. ''We're trying to build a tradition among our students. Even if they just give $5 or $10, it's the concept that we really rely on giving, even though we're a state university.''
To that end, institutions are tracking affluent alumni and trumpeting athletic victories.
SUNY Geneseo, the system's most selective college, held 67 alumni events last year, up from a few the year before, as part of an effort to raise $25 million. The college has redesigned its alumni magazine and started five quarterly newsletters, each with a different focus, like athletics or business education.
Rutgers has hired Marts & Lundy to help gauge the potential donating power of its 390,000 alumni and has consolidated 19 alumni groups into one. ''We decided that was crazy,'' Dr. McCormick said. ''And we abolished the dues structure so that any alumnus gets the magazine.''
Even the University of Connecticut, whose sports prowess has won it a national profile, began its first big fund-raising campaign only about a decade ago. And a bruised economy has hurt. A $600 million campaign begun four years ago has so far raised $250 million rather than a projected $325 million, said John K. Martin, president of the University of Connecticut Foundation.
Some warn that there is such a thing as too much private money.
''If there is a risk in it, it's that it will take legislatures off the hook,'' said Patrick M. Callan, president of the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education. ''They might get the impression that we can make up for the cuts through philanthropy, and that could make us vulnerable to further cuts.''
Still, Mr. Callan said, fund-raising has become a fact of life, adding, ''Everybody has to do it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart last Sunday with the continuation of an article about efforts by public colleges to increase fund-raising gave an incorrect figure in some editions for fund-raising totals of several universities. The totals, plotted on a graph, ran from zero at the bottom to $400 million at the top -- not to $40 million.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Private Fund-Raising at Public Universities: The New York region's public universities are getting less money from state and local governments. They have stepped up fund-raising decisively, but lag far behind private colleges. (Sources: The National Center for Higher Education Management Systems
 Council for Aid to Education) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (95%); FUNDRAISING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ALUMNI (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER FOR HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS (59%); COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



425 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: Wireless, but Leashed

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

 BODY:
Americans were liberated from AT&T last week.
The news that Apple was ending its exclusive relationship with AT&T and would begin selling the iPhone 4 on Verizon's network in the United States was not a surprise, but the excitement was palpable nonetheless.
''Freedom!'' bellowed Jon Stewart on ''The Daily Show,'' in a segment in which people described their relationship to AT&T as that of slaves to their masters, subjects to their tyrants. 
Given the dissatisfaction with AT&T, it is easy to look at other parts of the world and wonder why this didn't happen sooner. After all, the iPhone is available on multiple carriers in many European markets. France even has a law that would have made AT&T's exclusive agreement with Apple illegal. Almost half of mobile phone customers in the largest European countries do not have contracts with wireless carriers, and can switch phones from one network to another with ease.
The continent's system is looser in part because Europe settled on a single technological standard for wireless carriers 20 years ago. Countries there wanted to ensure that their citizens' phones would work as they traveled throughout the Continent. No such agreement was reached in the United States, which had recently deregulated its telephone industry, and carriers built their networks on separate technologies.
''I'd call it the culture of competition,'' said Alex Hills, a professor of engineering and public policy at Carnegie Mellon, explaining why a single standard was not set in the United States. ''There was interest in allowing the standards to compete with one another, and let the market decide who would win.''
That's not to say that American policymakers have been hands off; cellphone users have been gaining more freedom. In 2003, wireless customers were given the right to move their phone number from one network to another, for instance. And the federal government ruled in July that users could legally bypass Apple's software restrictions for the iPhone, a process known as jailbreaking. This decision reduced Apple's control, but its iPhones were still not able to connect to other 3G wireless networks.
''In a European country, for a government to say you cannot have exclusive relationships with phone manufacturers, that's a very simple thing,'' said Charles Golvin, an analyst with Forrester Research. ''However, in the U.S. it's a more complex technical problem.''
Such technical barriers, of course, are not insurmountable. When Apple decided to work with Verizon, it built a new version of the iPhone to work on the Verizon network. But the new device comes with some tradeoffs -- for instance, the phone cannot handle a phone call at the same time it is being used to access the Internet.
Phone manufacturers and wireless carriers both have incentives to restrict the choices available to consumers, through the sorts of agreements that Apple has had with AT&T and now Verizon. For carriers, being able to sell desirable phones allows them to lure consumers to their networks, and they are willing to subsidize the cost of the phone significantly in exchange. This gives phone manufacturers a reliable way to distribute their phones, and brings the price of increasingly sophisticated devices down to a level that seems reasonable to the mainstream market.
This tradeoff benefits consumers, as well. By agreeing to bind themselves to AT&T for two years, iPhone owners paid for only about a third of their phones; AT&T put up the rest. Europeans may be able to leave their carriers the minute they think another company can do better, but they pay significantly more upfront for that added choice.
This doesn't necessarily make them happier than the Americans raging against AT&T. In November, ComScore, a marketing research firm, asked mobile phone users to rank how satisfied they were with their carriers, on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being most satisfied. Only 11 percent of Americans gave their carriers a five or below. By contrast, 16 percent of Europeans ranked their carriers with a five or lower.
The only question, then, is why don't they switch?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY REMENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); 3G WIRELESS (77%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEREGULATION (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



426 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: In the Health Care Fight, a Political Focus on Jobs, With No Simple Answers

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As Republicans choreograph a House vote to repeal President Obama's health care overhaul this week, no charge has stung Democrats more than the argument that the new law will ''kill'' jobs in an economy wobbling back to life.
In the fight over whether the law will create or destroy jobs, both political parties cite evidence to support their claims. But many economists say the effect on jobs is likely to be modest -- neither so negative as Republicans assert nor so positive as Democrats contend.
In any event, economists say, the impact on jobs -- a hot political issue now -- is not a particularly good standard to use in evaluating a complex law that will affect one-sixth of the economy and almost every American.
For many experts, a more significant test is whether the law will slow the growth of health costs and provide greater value to consumers, taxpayers and employers in return for the $2.5 trillion a year they spend on health care. 
''The effect of the law on jobs is likely to be modest,'' said Katherine Baicker, an economic adviser to President George W. Bush who is now a professor of health economics at Harvard. ''The most important effects of the law will be on health costs and coverage and the efficiency of the health care system, not on jobs.''
Economists tend to agree that the law could lead some employers to hire fewer low-wage workers, as the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has said. But, they add, if the law eventually slows the growth of health costs, it could leave employers with more money to spend on expanding their businesses and even on hiring.
Health care jobs have been growing for years, and many experts say the trend is likely to continue if, as the budget office has projected, more than 30 million people gain coverage.
Republicans say the law will discourage hiring and employment because it will impose additional payroll costs and taxes on many businesses.
The shaky economy and the health care law, passed on party-line votes in both houses of Congress, are separate political issues. But they could become a combustible mix in the 2012 presidential campaign if unemployment remains high and Republicans gain traction with their argument that the health care law is adding to the problem.
White House officials, aware of the political risks, portray the law as an engine of economic growth that could create more than 300,000 jobs by reining in the cost of employee health benefits.
Starting in 2014, employers with 50 or more employees will be required to pay penalties if they do not offer insurance -- or if their coverage does not measure up to federal standards -- and if at least one worker gets a federal subsidy to help buy insurance. Companies that provide skimpy health benefits or none at all could thus incur substantial costs.
At least one-fourth of workers are in small businesses that will be exempt from the penalties, the Congressional Research Service says, and the desire to keep that exemption could influence the behavior of some business owners.
Tony Gagliardi, director of the Denver office of the National Federation of Independent Business, said many proprietors had told him: ''If I have 49 employees, I am not going to hire the 50th one. The government has removed the incentive for me to create jobs over that threshold.''
(Whether the threshold is at 50 or 51 employees is not entirely certain. ''There is an inconsistency in the law'' that may need fixing, the Congressional Research Service has said.)
The law's defenders say several factors will limit its impact on jobs. Employers will have several years to adjust to many of its incentives and requirements. Most large companies already provide health benefits to employees. And many small employers can obtain tax credits to help defray insurance costs for several years.
Economists say the new costs -- including those for new health benefits and penalties -- will, over time, generally be passed on to workers, through reductions in wages or other compensation.
''However,'' the Congressional Budget Office says, ''firms generally cannot reduce workers' wages below the minimum wage,'' now $7.25 an hour, and this ''will probably cause some employers to respond by hiring fewer low-wage workers.''
Alternatively, the budget office said, the law may create incentives for some employers to use more part-time workers, because they will not be counted in calculating the amount of penalties.
Representative Vicky Hartzler of Missouri, a freshman Republican who ousted a 17-term Democrat, said small businesses in her district were ''not hiring and not expanding because of the health care law.''
But Gary Burtless, a labor economist at the Brookings Institution, said he was ''skeptical of the idea that the new law will be a wholesale job-killer.''
''If it appears that there will be a lot of extra costs for providing health insurance to your least skilled employees,'' Mr. Burtless said, ''my hunch is that employers will find some route, direct or indirect, to avoid paying those costs.''
The law's impact on jobs depends, in part, on whether it will slow the growth of health costs, a question on which expert opinion is divided.
''If the growth of health costs is reduced, employers could use the savings to generate a significant number of jobs,'' said Frank B. McArdle, manager of the Washington office of Aon Hewitt, a benefits consulting firm. ''If costs go up because of health care reform, employers will have to hire or keep a smaller number of employees, or change the mix of full-time and part-time workers.''
''The jury is still out'' on provisions of the law intended to squeeze health costs, Mr. McArdle added.
When Massachusetts required people to carry health insurance, it saw an increase in coverage and in the demand for medical care, especially primary care. Administration officials expect a similar response to the federal law.
The increase in health care jobs has long seemed unstoppable, even when the overall employment picture is bleak.
From the start of the recession in December 2007 until December 2010, the nation as a whole lost 7.2 million jobs, but the health care industry gained 800,000, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. Since the recession ended in June 2009, the number of health care jobs has increased by 386,600. But some other industries and local governments have lost jobs, so total payroll employment is up much less than that.
David M. Cutler, a professor of economics at Harvard and a fellow at the liberal-leaning Center for American Progress, said the new law would probably slow the growth of health care employment and shift health jobs from administrative tasks to clinical work.
''Health care workers will spend more time on preventive and chronic care and less time chasing paper and billing,'' Mr. Cutler said.
Democrats say the law will also make it easier for people to switch jobs or start their own businesses, since they will not have to worry about losing health insurance. Under the law, starting in 2014, insurers will have to accept all applicants, regardless of pre-existing medical conditions.
''We see it as an entrepreneurial bill,'' said Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, ''a bill that says to someone, if you want to be creative and be a musician or whatever, you can leave your work, focus on your talent, your skill, your passion, your aspirations because you will have health care.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The effect on jobs ''is likely to be modest,'' says Katherine Baicker, an economist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INSURANCE (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



427 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Labor Laying Ground for Gains in Council Races

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS. 
dmihalopoulos@chicagonewscoop.org Hunter Clauss contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Organized labor is planning to spend millions of dollars and deploy thousands of volunteers across Chicago's wards in the coming election to expand its influence at City Hall.
Although the largest labor groups appear to be staying neutral in the race for the open mayor's post, the union that is the top donor to Illinois political campaigns is positioning itself to play an important role in the City Council races.
Leaders of that group, the Service Employees International Union, say they hope to build on the gains of four years ago with a strong showing in the Feb. 22 election and the April runoff voting. In 2007, the S.E.I.U. spent almost $2.5 million to aid council candidates, helping unseat some of Mayor Richard M. Daley's most loyal supporters.
Thomas Balanoff, the president of S.E.I.U.'s state council, said last week that his group and other union activists, including the Chicago Federation of Labor, could spend several million dollars in the city elections this year. 
The union victories in 2007 provided no more than a toehold, and Mr. Daley continued to enjoy the support of a strong majority on the Council. The self-described progressive caucus that labor-friendly aldermen formed could count on no more than 15 or 16 of the Council's 50 members on any issue.
This year, with Mr. Daley not running for another term and 10 incumbent aldermen also retiring, union officials say they hope to claim a majority on the Council. ''That's our goal,'' Mr. Balanoff said. ''We think there is a good chance.''
The demise of traditional patronage armies in the wake of a city hiring-fraud scandal meant that labor unions became the largest source of campaign workers in the most recent local elections. This year, union campaign cash could be more important than ever as aldermen have seen donations from real estate interests dry up since the housing market's collapse.
Business interests did not match labor's new-found clout in the 2007 council elections. But a new political action committee financed largely by businesses was created recently by a former top aide to Mr. Daley who also has ties to Rahm Emanuel, the mayoral contender and former White House chief of staff.
Where the new group, For a Better Chicago, could collide with labor may not become clear until it announces its endorsed candidates later this month. On Friday evening, S.E.I.U. leaders settled on a list of endorsed candidates in the council races and decided to issue no endorsement for mayor, at least not yet.
Labor leaders have reacted warily to the prospect of Mr. Emanuel as mayor. The S.E.I.U. heavily backed his former boss, President Obama, but the strong support that Mr. Emanuel's mayoral bid enjoys among business leaders and his recent call for cutting the pension benefits of public employees have raised suspicions among union officials.
Yet with Mr. Emanuel leading in polls, labor leaders are reluctant to worsen the strain with him and believe their best bet for gaining increased local power lies in the council races.
A priority will be to re-elect the freshman aldermen they helped to win in the last election as well as other council supporters with greater seniority. The labor-endorsed incumbents include Pat Dowell in the 3rd Ward, Freddrenna Lyle in the 6th, Toni Foulkes in the 15th, Ricardo Munoz in the 22nd and Joe Moore in the 49th, S.E.I.U. officials said Friday.
The S.E.I.U. also endorsed some candidates for open seats, like Mary O'Connor in the 41st Ward and Marina Faz-Huppert in the 45th. In other wards where the aldermen are not seeking re-election, labor groups are waiting to see who survives the first-round balloting and qualifies for the runoff vote before giving their blessing.
Labor leaders say they will again seek to topple some incumbents, endorsing challengers to veterans like Aldermen Howard Brookins in the 21st Ward, Daniel Solis in the 25th Ward and Bernard Stone in the 50th, whom they accuse of being unfriendly to union interests.
Meanwhile, For a Better Chicago has raised about $1 million and begun interviewing aldermanic candidates. The group is led by Greg Goldner, who was campaign manager for Mayor Daley's 2003 re-election bid and for Mr. Emanuel's successful bid for Congress in 2002.
The sources of For a Better Chicago's money are not publicly known. Mr. Goldner said the group was exempt from complete disclosure because it is a federal nonprofit organization. Using that status as a vehicle to raise campaign cash, he said, the group will then deposit the money into the state political fund that was incorporated on Jan. 7.
Mr. Goldner said most of the money for his group had come from members of the business community who want to see Chicago continue on the same business-friendly path as under Mr. Daley. ''A lot of individuals who do business here have had a stable and solid partner in Mayor Daley,'' he said.
His group's vision diverges from the labor agenda on some key issues, including the use of tax-increment financing subsidies and the leasing of public assets to private investors. Mr. Daley used tax-increment financing to subsidize real estate development and improve infrastructure.
Mr. Balanoff said all unused tax-increment-financing money -- hundreds of millions of dollars -- should be returned to the schools, park district and other taxing bodies that would have received it if not for Mr. Daley's policies to incentivize business.
Mr. Goldner countered that tax-increment financing was one of ''the last important economic development tools that cities have,'' noting that Mr. Daley used it to lure companies to Chicago.
Mr. Balanoff said labor opposed the leasing of public assets, but Mr. Goldner said the unpopular privatization of city parking meters should not be the death knell for such deals.
''You can debate the parking-meter deal all day long -- maybe it was good, maybe it wasn't,'' Mr. Goldner said. ''To say that because of the parking meter deal Chicago should not consider future public-private partnerships -- to eliminate that as an option -- makes no sense.''
For a Better Chicago is not affiliated with any of the mayoral campaigns, Mr. Goldner said, although he did not rule out the possibility of collaboration with candidates.
Mr. Emanuel, through his spokesman, also denied any relationship with For a Better Chicago.
''Rahm does not plan to endorse City Council candidates, though we are not ruling out dedicating resources to candidates who share his vision for the city,'' Ben LaBolt, Mr. Emanuel's spokesman, said last week.
That situation could change if Mr. Emanuel wins a majority of the vote next month and is elected outright, without the need for a runoff. He would then be free to focus whatever campaign money remained in his accounts to help elect aldermen who would support his agenda.
The last thing labor leaders want is for Mr. Emanuel to enjoy the sort of rubber-stamp council that was a hallmark of Mr. Daley's tenure.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Labor union officials interviewed 21st Ward aldermanic candidates, at top, on Thursday.
 Jessica Angus of the S.E.I.U. greeted two candidates for the 25th Ward, Cuahutemoc Morfin, left, and Ambi Medrano. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSe MORe/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); SCANDALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



428 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5037 words

HEADLINE: Looking Behind the Mug-Shot Grin

BYLINE: By JO BECKER, SERGE F. KOVALESKI, MICHAEL LUO AND DAN BARRY; Reporting was contributed by A.G. Sulzberger, Richard Oppel and Anissa Tanweer from Tucson; Sarah Wheaton from New York; and Janie Lorber from Washington. Jack Begg, Toby Lyles, Jack Styczynski and Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
TUCSON -- Moments after the swirl of panic, blood, death and shock, the suspect was face down on the pavement and squirming under the hold of two civilians, his shaved head obscured by a beanie and the hood of his dark sweatshirt.
Deputy Sheriff Thomas Audetat, a chiseled former Marine with three tours in Iraq to his credit, dug his knee into the gangly young man's back and cuffed him. With the aid of another deputy, he relieved the heroic civilians of their charge and began searching for weapons other than the Glock semiautomatic pistol, secured nearby under a civilian's foot, that had just fired 31 rounds.
In the left front pocket, two 15-round magazines. In the right front pocket, a black, four-inch folding knife. ''Are there any other weapons on you?'' Deputy Audetat recalled demanding.
''Back right pocket.'' 
But the back right pocket contained no weapons. Instead, in a Ziploc bag, the deputy found about $20 in cash, some change, a credit card and, peeking through the plastic as if proffering a calling card, an Arizona driver's license for one Jared Lee Loughner, 22.
Deputy Audetat lifted the passive, even relaxed suspect to his feet and led him to the patrol car, where the man twisted himself awkwardly across the back seat, face planted on the floor board. Then he invoked an oddly timed constitutional right. ''I plead the Fifth,'' Mr. Loughner said, though the deputy had no intention of questioning him. ''I plead the Fifth.''
At a Pima County Sheriff's Department substation, Deputy Audetat guided Mr. Loughner to a tiny interview room with a two-way mirror, directed him to a plastic blue chair and offered him a glass of water. The deputy detected no remorse; nothing.
Now to another building for the mug shot. Look into the camera, the suspect was told. He smiled.
Click.
Mr. Loughner's spellbinding mug shot -- that bald head, that bright-eyed gaze, that smile -- yields no answer to why, why, why, why, the aching question cried out in a subdued Tucson synagogue last week. Does the absence of hair suggest a girding for battle? Does the grin convey a sense of accomplishment, or complete disengagement from the consequence of his actions?
And is his slightly blackened left eye all but winking at the wholesale violence that preceded the camera's click? The attack on a meet-and-greet event with a congresswoman outside a supermarket; the killing of six people, including the chief federal judge in Arizona and a 9-year-old girl; the wounding of 13, including Representative Gabrielle Giffords, shot in the head.
Since last Saturday's shooting frenzy in Tucson, investigators and the news media have spent the week frantically trying to assemble the Jared Loughner jigsaw puzzle in hopes that the pieces will fit, a clear picture will emerge and the answer to why will be found, providing the faint reassurance of a dark mystery solved.
Instead, the pattern of facts so far presents only a lack of one, a curlicue of contradictory moments open to broad interpretation. Here he is, a talented saxophonist with a prestigious high school jazz band, and there he is, a high school dropout. Here he is, a clean-cut employee for an Eddie Bauer store, and there he is, so unsettling a presence that tellers at a local bank would feel for the alarm button when he walked in.
Those who see premeditation in the acts Mr. Loughner is accused of committing can cite, for example, his pleading of the Fifth Amendment or the envelope the authorities found in his safe that bore the handwritten words ''Giffords,'' ''My assassination'' and ''I planned ahead'' -- or how he bided his time in the supermarket, even using the men's room. Those who suspect he is insane, and therefore a step removed from being responsible for his actions, can point to any of his online postings, including:
''If 987,123,478,961,876,341,234,671,234, 098,601,978,618 is the year in B.C.E then the previous year of 987,123,478,961,876, 341,234,671,234,098,601,978,618 B.C.E is 987,123,478,961,876,341,234,671,234,098, 601,978,619 B.C.E.''
What the cacophony of facts do suggest is that Mr. Loughner is struggling with a profound mental illness (most likely paranoid schizophrenia, many psychiatrists say); that his recent years have been marked by stinging rejection -- from his country's military, his community college, his girlfriends and, perhaps, his father; that he, in turn, rejected American society, including its government, its currency, its language, even its math. Mr. Loughner once declared to his professor that the number 6 could be called 18.
As he alienated himself from his small clutch of friends, grew contemptuous of women in positions of power and became increasingly oblivious to basic social mores, Mr. Loughner seemed to develop a dreamy alternate world, where the sky was sometimes orange, the grass sometimes blue and the Internet's informational chaos provided refuge.
He became an echo chamber for stray ideas, amplifying, for example, certain grandiose tenets of a number of extremist right-wing groups -- including the need for a new money system and the government's mind-manipulation of the masses through language.
In the last three months, Mr. Loughner had a 9-millimeter bullet tattooed on his right shoulder blade and turned increasingly to the Internet to post indecipherable tutorials about the new currency, bemoan the prevalence of illiteracy and settle scores with the Army and Pima Community College, both of which had shunned him. He also may have felt rejected by the American government in general, and by Ms. Giffords in particular, with whom he had a brief -- and, to him, unsatisfactory -- encounter in 2007.
Nearly four years later, investigators say, Mr. Loughner methodically planned another encounter with her. Eight days ago, on a sunny Saturday morning, he took a $14 taxi ride to a meet-your-representative gathering outside a Safeway, they say, and he was armed for slaughter.
Clarence Dupnik, the outspoken sheriff of Pima County, was driving back from Palm Springs when he received word of the shooting. Ms. Giffords and the slain judge, John M. Roll, were friends of his. ''It was like someone kicked me in the stomach,'' he recalled. ''Shock turned to anger. The closer to Tucson, the angrier I got.''
Although his law enforcement colleagues are diligently working to shore up their criminal case to counter a possible plea of insanity that could mitigate punishment, Sheriff Dupnik seems torn about Mr. Loughner's mental state.
''There's no doubt in my mind that the whole trial will be about did he know right from wrong,'' the sheriff said. ''We'll have 15 psychiatrists saying yes. We'll have 15 psychiatrists saying no. What do I say? I think he's mentally disturbed.''
Disturbed enough to be found guilty but insane?
''I majored in psychology at the university,'' Sheriff Dupnik answered. ''Based on what I've seen, he is psychotic, he has serious problems with reality, and I think he's delusional. Does he meet the legal test of guilty but insane? I don't know.''
Early Signs of Alienation
One spring morning in 2006, a student showed up at Mountain View High School so intoxicated that he had to be taken to Northwest Hospital, five miles away. A sheriff's deputy went to the hospital's emergency room to question the inebriated 17-year-old student, whose eyes were red from crying.
According to a police report, the teenager explained that he had taken a bottle of vodka from his father's liquor cabinet around 1:30 that morning and, for the next several hours, drank much of its contents. Why? Because I was upset that my father had yelled at me, said the student, Jared Loughner.
In the search for clues to explain the awfulness to come, this moment stands out as the first public breach in the facade of domestic calm in the modest Loughner home on Soledad Avenue in the modest subdivision of Orangewood Estates, its front door shrouded by the wide canopy of an old mesquite tree, its perimeter walled off as if for fortification.
The mother, Amy Loughner, worked as the manager of one of the area's parks. Pleasant though reserved, she impressed the parents of her son's friends as a doting mother who shepherded her only child to his saxophone lessons and concerts, and encouraged his dream of one day attending the Juilliard School, the prestigious arts conservatory in New York.
Once, when he was in the ninth grade, Mr. Loughner's parents had to leave town for a week, and he stayed with the family of his friend, Alex Montanaro. Before leaving, Mrs. Loughner presented Alex's mother, Michelle Montanaro, with a document that temporarily granted her power of attorney for Jared -- in case something happened.
''This is how I knew his mom doted on Jared,'' Ms. Montanaro said. ''She thought of everything for her son.''
But the father, Randy Loughner, was so rarely mentioned by his son that some of Jared's friends assumed that his parents were divorced. Mr. Loughner installed carpets and pool decks, and spent much of his free time restoring old cars. Jared drove a Chevy Nova; his mother, an El Camino.
Some neighbors saw Randy Loughner as private; others as standoffish, even a bit scary. As a member of one neighboring family suggested: if your child's ball came to rest in the Loughners' yard, you left it there.
And, occasionally, word would trickle back to the homes of Jared's friends of a family unhappy in its own way. That Jared and his father did not get along. That a palpable sense of estrangement hovered in the Loughner home.
''He would tell me that he didn't want to go home because he didn't like being home,'' recalled Ashley Figueroa, 21, who dated him for several months in high school.
Teased for a while as a Harry Potter look-alike, then adopting a more disheveled look, Jared seemed to find escape for a while in music, developing a taste for the singular sounds of John Coltrane and Charlie Parker. A talented saxophonist, he could show off his own musical chops by sweetly performing such jazz classics as ''Summertime.''
He belonged to the Arizona Jazz Academy, where the director, Doug Tidaback, found him to be withdrawn, though clearly dedicated. He played for two different ensembles, an 18-piece band and a smaller combo, which meant four hours of rehearsal on weekends and many discussions between the director and the mother about her son's musical prospects.
But Mr. Tidaback did not recall ever seeing Jared's father at any of the rehearsals or performances. And one other thing: the music director suspected that the teenager might be using marijuana.
''Being around people who smoke pot, they tend to be a little paranoid,'' Mr. Tidaback said. ''I got that sense from him. That might have been part of his being withdrawn.''
Mr. Tidaback, it seems, was onto something. Several of Jared's friends said he used marijuana, mushrooms and, especially, the hallucinogenic herb called Salvia divinorum. When smoked or chewed, the plant can cause brief but intense highs.
None of this necessarily distinguished him from his high school buddies. Several of them dabbled in drugs, played computer games like World of Warcraft and Diablo and went through Goth and alternative phases. Jared and a friend, Zane Gutierrez, would also shoot guns for practice in the desert; Jared, Mr. Gutierrez recalled, became quite proficient at picking off can targets with a gun.
But Jared, a curious teenager who at times could be intellectually intimidating, stood out because of his passionate opinions about government -- and his obsession with dreams.
He became intrigued by antigovernment conspiracy theories, including that the Sept. 11 attacks were perpetrated by the government and that the country's central banking system was enslaving its citizens. His anger would well up at the sight of President George W. Bush, or in discussing what he considered to be the nefarious designs of government.
''I think he feels the people should be able to govern themselves,'' said Ms. Figueroa, his former girlfriend. ''We didn't need a higher authority.''
Breanna Castle, 21, another friend from junior and senior high school, agreed. ''He was all about less government and less America,'' she said, adding, ''He thought it was full of conspiracies and that the government censored the Internet and banned certain books from being read by us.''
Among the books that he would later cite as his favorites: ''Animal Farm,'' ''Fahrenheit 451,'' ''Mein Kampf'' and ''The Communist Manifesto.'' Also: ''Peter Pan.''
And there was that fascination with dreams. Ms. Castle acknowledged that in high school, she too developed an interest in analyzing her dreams. But Jared's interest was much deeper.
''It started off with dream interpretation, but then he delved into the idea of accessing different parts of your mind and trying to control your entire brain at all times,'' she said. ''He was troubled that we only use part of our brain, and he thought that he could unlock his entire brain through lucid dreaming.''
With ''lucid dreaming,'' the dreamer supposedly becomes aware that he or she is dreaming and then is able to control those dreams. George Osler IV, the father of one of Jared's former friends, said his son explained the notion to him this way: ''You can fly. You can experience all kinds of things that you can't experience in reality.''
But the Mr. Osler worried about the healthiness of this boyhood obsession, particularly the notion that ''This is all not real.''
Gradually, friends and acquaintances say, there came a detachment from the waking world -- a strangeness that made others uncomfortable.
Mr. Loughner unnerved one parent, Mr. Osler, by smiling when there wasn't anything to smile about. He puzzled another parent, Ms. Montanaro, by reading aloud a short story he had written, about angels and the end of the world, that she found strange and incomprehensible. And he rattled Breanna Castle, his friend, by making a video that featured a gas station, traffic and his incoherent mumbles.
''The more people became shocked and worried about him, the more withdrawn he got,'' Ms. Castle said.
Not long after showing up intoxicated at school, Jared dropped out. He also dropped out of band. Then, in September 2007, he and a friend were caught with drug paraphernalia in a white van.
Something was happening to Jared Loughner. It was clear to his friends, clear to anyone who encountered him.
''He would get so upset about bigger issues, like why do positive and negative magnets have to attract each other,'' recalled Mr. Gutierrez, the friend who joined him in target practice in the desert. ''He had the most incredible thoughts, but he could not handle them.''
Facing Rejection
Two Pima Community College police officers drove into Orangewood Estates and up to a flat-roofed house on Soledad Avenue, the one with that crooked mesquite tree in the front and the old cars always parked in the driveway. Their mission that night in late September was dicey enough to require two other officers to linger in the neighborhood as backup.
The owner of the house, Randy Loughner, locked away the dogs and directed the officers to the garage, where his son, Jared, a student at the community college, was waiting. One of the officers explained that the purpose of their visit was to serve Jared with a ''Notice of Immediate Suspension'' from the college.
The officer, Dana Mattocks, read the letter aloud, detailing a litany of troubled and disruptive behavior, including the recent posting of an unsettling video titled ''Pima Community College School -- Genocide/Scam -- Free Education -- Broken United States Constitution.''
As Officer Mattocks spoke, he later recalled, Jared Loughner stared at him as if in a ''constant trance.'' The notice was handed to the young man, who then read the letter back to the officers.
''Even though we spent approximately one hours relaying the information and narration of Jared's actions that brought him to his current predicament,'' Officer Mattocks wrote in a subsequent report, ''Jared left his silence and spoke out saying, 'I realize now that this is all a scam.' ''
The officers declared the meeting over, chatted briefly with Jared's father in the backyard and left the Loughner family to deal with this ''current predicament.''
What had happened?
After dropping out of high school, Jared Loughner had tried to straighten up, friends say. He shed his unkempt image, cut drugs from his life and indulged only in the occasional 24-ounce can of Miller High Life. He began wearing crisp clothes and got a job at Eddie Bauer.
''He was damned strait-laced and, I believe, had given up weed,'' Mr. Gutierrez recalled. ''At Eddie Bauer, he tucked his shirt in, wore a belt and dressed himself nicely, real clean cut. He could have been in any office building and would have looked fine.''
And when the two friends got together, Mr. Loughner would limit himself to that one big can of beer -- he was notoriously frugal -- and talk of bettering himself. ''He started saying that he wanted to stay out of trouble and was thinking about doing good stuff with his life,'' Mr. Gutierrez said.
Still, things never quite clicked.
Mr. Loughner seemed to meet rejection at every turn. He tried to enlist in the Army in 2008 but failed its drug test. He held a series of jobs, often briefly: Peter Piper Pizza, but not long enough to make it past the three-month probationary period, an executive said; the Mandarin Grill, where the owner recalled that after less than a month of employment, the teenager simply stopped showing up.
After leaving his job at Eddie Bauer, he became a volunteer at an animal-care center in Tucson. On his application, he came across as a normal and ambitious teenager, expressing interest in ''community service, fun, reference and experience.'' But within two months he was told not to come back until he could follow rules.
At least there was the Northwest Campus of Pima Community College, where tuition was affordable, the quail often skittered across the grounds and Mr. Loughner found intellectual sanctuary. Beginning in the summer of 2005, when he was just 16, he began taking classes: music fundamentals, philosophy, sign language, algebra, biology, computers, logic -- even Pilates.
But beginning in 2010, Mr. Loughner's mostly private struggle with basic societal norms tipped into the public settings of the classroom, the library, the campus.
Pima Community College has six campuses, four educational centers and nearly 70,000 students. But one student in particular, it seems, came to occupy the attention of its administrators and security officers.
Disruptions and Monitoring
In February, an administrator reported to the campus police that Mr. Loughner had disrupted the class with his strange reaction to the reading of another student's poem, taking a huge leap from its context to abortion, wars and killing people. The school official described him as ''creepy.'' They would keep an eye on him.
In April, the director of the library summoned the police because Mr. Loughner was making loud noises while listening to music through his earphones. According to a police report, he was advised ''that this behavior was not an acceptable practice for a public setting, especially in a library.'' The student said it would not happen again.
In May, an instructor reported to the campus police that when she informed Mr. Loughner that he had gotten a B in her Pilates class, he threw his work down and declared the grade unacceptable. Things got so tense that the instructor felt intimidated, and feared that the moment might become physical.
In June, a school counselor investigated an incident in which Mr. Loughner had disrupted a math class. When she inquired, Mr. Loughner first said that he was offended by the inquiry, then explained, ''My instructor said he called a number 6, and I said I call it 18.'' He said he also asked the instructor to explain, ''How can you deny math instead of accept it?'' He went on to strike the increasingly familiar theme of persecution: that he was being ''scammed.''
''This student was warned,'' the counselor, Delisa Siddall, wrote in a report. ''He has extreme views and frequently meanders from the point. He seems to have difficulty understanding how his actions impact others, yet very attuned to his unique ideology that is not always homogeneous. ... Since he reported that an incident such as this occurred in another class, administrators will have to help this student clearly understand what is appropriate classroom dialog.''
Mr. Loughner said that he would not ask any more questions for fear of being expelled. All the while, though, he was expressing himself in sometimes odd conversations with other players in an online strategy game. Writing under the moniker ''Dare,'' he denounced his ''scam'' education, expressed frustration over his continued unemployment (''How many applications ... is a lot?'') and revealed that he had been fired from five jobs -- including one, at a hamburger restaurant, that he lost because he left while in the throes of what he called a ''mental breakdown.''
He also wrote of his ''strong interest in logic.'' But, it seems, it was a logic whose inductive and deductive reasoning made sense only to him.
Around this time, Mr. Loughner bumped into his old girlfriend, Ms. Figueroa, in a store. Years earlier, she had fallen for a shy boy in her computer class; they would hold hands during football games and hang out after marching band practice. Now here he was, his long locks shorn and an off-kilter air. A completely different person, it seemed.
''It was kind of like he wasn't there,'' Ms. Figueroa recalled. ''I can't put my finger on it. It just wasn't a good feeling. I kind of got a chill.''
In September, Mr. Loughner filled out paperwork to have his record expunged on the 2007 drug paraphernalia charge. Although he did not need to bother -- he completed a diversion program, so the charge was never actually on his record -- Judge Jose Luis Castillo, who handled the case in Pima County Consolidated Justice Court, said after the shooting that, in retrospect, it definitely ''crossed my mind'' that Mr. Loughner was worried that the charge would prevent him from buying a weapon.
And that same month, there was another incident at Pima Community College, another class disruption caused by Mr. Loughner, another summoning of the campus police. A teacher had informed him that he would receive only a half-credit for handing in an assignment late, and he was declaring this a violation of his right to freedom of speech.
One of the responding police officers began to engage him with simple questions, only to enter the Loughner world of logic, in which freedom of speech morphed into freedom of thought and his teacher was required to accept the thoughts he wrote down as a passing grade. The other officer took note of the student's tilted head and jittery, darting eyes.
A few days later, during a meeting with a school administrator, Mr. Loughner said that he had paid for his courses illegally because, ''I did not pay with gold and silver'' -- a standard position among right-wing extremist groups. With Mr. Loughner's consent, that same administrator then arranged to meet with the student and his mother to discuss the creation of a ''behavioral contract'' for him, after which the official noted: ''Throughout the meeting, Jared held himself very rigidly and smiled overtly at inappropriate times.''
At the same time, other college administrators and officers were just learning of the ''Pima Community College School-Genocide'' video, in which the narrator says, ''We are examining the torture of students,'' and ''I haven't forgotten the teacher that gave me a B for freedom of speech,'' and ''This is Pima Community College, one of the biggest scams in America'' -- and ''Thank you ... This is Jared ... from Pima College.''
Mr. Loughner was informed in his father's garage that he was suspended. Not long after, the college sent him a letter saying that he would not be welcomed back until he presented certification from a mental health professional that he was not a threat. That never happened.
By now the strange presence that was Jared Loughner was known in places beyond the Northwest Campus of Pima Community College.
Leaving an Impression
At a small local branch of a major bank, for example, the tellers would have their fingers on the alarm button whenever they saw him approaching.
It was not just his appearance -- the pale shaved head and eyebrows -- that unnerved them. It was also the aggressive, often sexist things that he said, including asserting that women should not be allowed to hold positions of power or authority.
One individual with knowledge of the situation said Mr. Loughner once got into a dispute with a female branch employee after she told him that a request of his would violate bank policy. He brusquely challenged the woman, telling her that she should not have any power.
''He was considered to be short-tempered and made people at the bank very uncomfortable,'' said the individual, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to discuss the matter.
The bank's employees could not forget how, after bulletproof glass was installed at the bank, Mr. Loughner would try to stick his finger through a small space atop the glass and laugh to himself, the person said.
And employees at the Sacred Art Tattoo shop would not forget that day in November -- the same month in which Mr. Loughner bought a Glock -- when he walked in wearing jean shorts and a muscle shirt and holding up a 9-millimeter bullet that he said he wanted replicated on his right shoulder.
It took less than a half-hour and cost $60. And when it was done, Mr. Loughner insisted on shaking the artist's hand.
Then, a week later, he returned to get a second bullet tattoo.
''I started talking to him about what he liked to do, hobbies, pastimes,'' recalled Carl Grace, 30, who drew the second tattoo. ''He said he dreamed 14 to 15 hours a day. He said he knew how to control his sleeping and control his dreams.'' But when the artist asked about the meaning behind the tattoo, the customer just smiled.
''When he left, I said: 'That's a weird dude. That's a Columbine candidate.' ''
A Busy Morning
At 9:41 last Saturday morning, a 60-year-old cabdriver named John Marino pulled his Ford Crown Victoria into the parking lot of a Circle K convenience store on West Cortaro Farms Road to collect his first fare of the day. The cashier inside raised her finger to signal one minute.
Then out came his customer, just another customer, a normal-looking young man. Climbing into the back seat, the man said he needed to go to the Safeway supermarket on Oracle Road, on the Northwest side. Their five-mile ride began.
Mr. Marino has been driving a taxi for a dozen years; he likes to say that he has hauled everyone from street walkers to mayors. He does not pry for information from his passengers, mostly because he doesn't care. But if a customer wants to talk, he will talk. He glanced at his rear-view mirror and saw his passenger looking out the window. The passenger was quiet, until he wasn't.
''Do you always remember everybody you pick up?'' Mr. Marino recalled the man asking.
''Yeah, vaguely,'' Mr. Marino says he answered. ''I've been doing this a long time. It's hard to remember everybody.''
At another point, the passenger blurted out, ''I drink too much.'' To which the cabdriver answered, ''Oh, that's too bad.''
Then it was back to silence.
By this point, the passenger, Mr. Loughner, had already had a full day.
Late the night before, he had dropped off a roll of 35-millimeter film to be developed at a Walgreens on West Ina Road. Law-enforcement officials would later say the roll included many photographs of Mr. Loughner wearing a bright red G-string and posing with a Glock. In some photos, presumably mirrored reflections, he holds the gun by his crotch; in others, next to his naked buttocks.
At 12:30 in the morning, he checked into Room 411 at a Motel 6 less than two miles from his house -- an occasional habit, his parents later told investigators. The motel, a mottled brown building, sits near a railroad track; one of its rooms is still boarded up, marking where a guest shot himself recently.
Less than two hours later, he hopped back in his Chevy Nova to run a couple of errands, including a return to the Walgreens to collect those photographs of him posing nearly naked with a Glock. Soon after that, he posted a message on his Myspace page: ''Goodbye friends.''
Shortly after 6, he headed back out for more predawn errands, including a visit to a Super Wal-Mart to buy ammunition and a black backpack-style diaper bag.
At 7:30, minutes after sunrise, he was stopped by an Arizona Game and Fish Department officer for running a red light, but was cordial and cooperative in providing his license, registration and insurance card.
He returned home, where his father confronted him about the contents of the black diaper bag he was lifting out the Chevy's trunk. He mumbled something before dashing into the surrounding desert, his father giving futile chase in a vehicle. (Days later, a man walking in the desert came across a black diaper bag jammed with ammunition.)
Mr. Loughner then made his way to the Circle K, about a mile away. He called for a cab.
Now that cab was delivering its passenger in a hooded sweatshirt to his destination, the Safeway supermarket plaza, where a congresswoman was about to greet constituents. Mr. Loughner pulled out the Ziploc bag where he kept his cash and handed Mr. Marino a $20 bill for the $14.25 fare. The driver could not break the bill, so the two men went into the supermarket to get change.
Mr. Marino got in line at the customer-service desk, behind someone cashing in a winning lottery ticket. He received a few bills for the $20 and handed Mr. Loughner a $5 bill -- meaning his tip was 75 cents. The cabdriver would later wonder why, considering what was about to happen, his passenger didn't just let him keep the $20.
Before going their separate ways, Mr. Marino recalled, Mr. Loughner asked, ''Can I shake your hand?''
Sure.
''And I noticed his hands were really sweaty,'' recalled the cabdriver who had seen all types. ''You know?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jared L. Loughner (A1)
An undated photograph of Mr. Loughner posted on his Myspace page. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MYSPACE)
Pima Community College in Tucson. Mr. Loughner first enrolled there in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHANGES: Jared L. Loughner was described as a curious teenager and talented saxophonist with a prestigious high school jazz band. When he was arrested after the shooting, a deputy detected no remorse. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIMA COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT
MARANA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, VIA AP
ROBERT BLANCO) (A20)
One of Mr. Loughner's math quizzes. The words ''Mayhem Fest!!!'' are written at the top of the page.
People gather at the scene of the shooting on Jan. 8. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEAN KNUTH/ARIZONA DAILY STAR)
CLARENCE DUPNIK: Pima County sheriff (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES)
 THE SCENE: The shooting at a ''Congress on Your Corner'' event in Tucson left six people dead and 13 others wounded. Representative Gabrielle Giffords was shot in the head and remains in critical condition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY PRESNELL/ARIZONA DAILY STAR, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A21) CHART: Signs of Trouble?: Jared L. Loughner, 22, has been charged with shooting Representative Gabrielle Giffords during a rampage that left six people dead and 13 others wounded outside a Tucson grocery store on Jan. 8. Mr. Loughner has had repeated contact with law enforcement officers over the years, mostly for minor offenses. (A20-A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2011 TUCSON SHOOTING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HEAD INJURIES (78%); SHERIFFS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); SHOPLIFTING (66%); HAIR LOSS (61%); SHOOTINGS (58%)

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (96%) ARIZONA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



429 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
THREE AMERICAN SOLDIERS
Killed in Iraq
Three American soldiers were killed and one wounded in Iraq, raising to five the number of service members from the United States killed here since the beginning of the year. Page A14
TENSION BOILS IN RUSSIA 
A man's death during a brawl with Caucasian migrants has set off a chain of events whose culmination is still unclear. It unleashed populist anger not only against ethnic minorities but against the police, because several of the ethnic Caucasian youths were released after questioning. Page A10
GROUP OF ANGLICANS CONVERT
The Vatican welcomed the first group of traditionalist Anglicans who plan to convert to Roman Catholicism through a new structure the Vatican created to facilitate such group conversions. PAGE 6
ATTACKS ON ALCOHOL SELLERS
A recent flurry of attacks on those who sell alcohol in Baghdad has stirred fears among some here of an accelerated movement toward strict Islamic law, especially since the return to Iraq of Moktada al-Sadr, the fiery anti-American cleric, a week ago. PAGE 14
National
NEW FAST-FOOD RESTAURANTS BANNED FROM SOUTH L.A.
Los Angeles is making one of the nation's most radical food policies permanent by effectively banning new fast-food restaurants in South Los Angeles, which has significantly higher rates of poverty and obesity than other neighborhoods. A handful of other cities have enacted similar regulations for aesthetic reasons, but Los Angeles is the first to do so as a public health effort. PAGE A15
G.O.P.'S NEW LEADER
At 38, Reince Priebus, the new chairman of the Republican National Committee, emerged as the leading choice to succeed Michael Steele largely because of a pledge to not crave the spotlight. PAGE a18
Metropolitan
A SELECTIVE SCHOOL
Buffeted by Scandals
Columbia Secondary School, a four-year-old selective school in Harlem, was a high-profile startup with backing from Columbia University. Its students performed well on state tests, and its teachers earned accolades from education watchdogs. But a student's drowning last summer during a field trip and allegations of impropriety by the school's former principal has engulfed the school in tumult. PAGE 1
Sports
AN OCTOBER BYE WEEK
Allowed Bears to Regroup
After an uneven start, the Chicago Bears used a late October bye week to turn around its offense and its season, heading into the playoffs with wins in seven of its last nine games. The Bears host the Seattle Seahawks on Sunday in the N.F.C. divisional round. Page 4
ALL EYES WILL BE ON NADAL
As a new tennis season begins, all eyes will be on Rafael Nadal as he attempts to win the Australian Open and become the first man to hold all four major singles trophies since Laver completed his second Grand Slam in 1969. Page 1
LEADING A YOUNG DEFENSE
Seven years into his N.F.L. career, the New England Patriots' Vince Wilfork, a 325-pound defensive lineman, has taken on a leadership role on one of the league's youngest defenses. Page 3
Obituaries
FLO GIBSON, 86
Her deep and throaty voice lent itself to more than 1,100 audiobooks, including ''Middlemarch'' (31 hours, 7 minutes in length) and ''Anna Karenina'' (36 hours, 7 minutes). Page 24
Sunday Business
SMALL ARCHITECTURE FIRMS
See More China Patrons
Scores of small to midsize architectural practices across the United States that are enjoying a startling boom in Chinese projects -- whether in spec mansions for sudden multimillionaires or quarter-mile-high skyscrapers. Although a handful of big firms have extended global tentacles for generations, it has been only in the last half-dozen years that Chinese projects have gushed down to their smaller brethren. Page 1
PHONES AND COPYRIGHTS
In the 1970s, the publishing industry saw the photocopier as the enemy, and publishers began to file lawsuits -- prefiguring, by several decades, the music industry's suits against those who would download free music over the Internet. Smartphones raise similar questions as their cameras advance, allowing them to function as hand-held copiers. Page 3
A NEW TAKE ON SELF-HELP
It seems that almost anyone who has ever achieved success in America has written a book explaining how it is done. But the authors of ''Practical Wisdom: The Right Way to Do the Right Thing,'' talk about applied or situational wisdom. As the authors see it, practical wisdom roughly amounts to rising above workaday ephemera to recognize and enact wise decisions for the greater good. Page 7
Magazine
JUST HOW DEEP
Does it Run?
It can be hard to differentiate the real from the theatrical in the critical relationship between President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. But one thing is clear: Ultimately, she holds the cards. Page 34
Book Review
LAYING THE TABLE
With a Feast of Stories
In a feast of short stories, Francine Prose reviews Colm Toibin, Joyce Carol Oates reviews Charles Baxter, and Roxana Robinson reviews Edith Pearlman. Page 1
Arts & Leisure
A FRESH NEW ALBUM,
A Blend of Old Sounds
Gregg Allman is healthy and has a new solo album out, his first in 14 years, a blues record produced by T Bone Burnett and featuring Dr. John. Page 17
Automobiles
AFTER TWO YEARS OF GLOOM,
Glimmers of Hope
The North American International Auto Show found the industry humming an upbeat tune, one accompanied by new cars and trucks it hoped would sustain the momentum and smooth any economic dips ahead. Sports, Page 11
Editorial
THE CONSEQUENCES
And Truth of Repeal
Republicans plan to push through legislation to repeal the health care reform law. Americans will pay a high price if opponents get their way. Week in Review, Page 9
GUNS AND THE BORDER
A plan to block illegal guns moving into Mexico and the hands of the drug cartels needs to be approved. Week in Review, Page 9
AN EASY ONE FOR CONGRESS
Congress should get behind slashing the billions of dollars in farm subsidies that distort food prices, encourage overfarming and inflate land prices. Week in Review, Page 9
Op-Ed
FRANK RICH
It has been easier to debate the killer's motivations than confront the darker landscape of a surge in antigovernment violence. Week in Review, Page 10
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
The real strategic challenge isn't Chinese fighter aircraft. It's China's focus on education.
Week in Review, Page 10
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
Reporting of the shooting in Tucson was moving faster than the news. Week in Review, Page 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); MEN (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); ETHNICITY (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); OBESITY (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (67%); SCANDALS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); TOURNAMENTS (63%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (62%); POVERTY RATES (51%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); RAFAEL NADAL (50%); MICHAEL STEELE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



430 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: What Obama Should Say About the Deficit

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and was the chairwoman of , President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
BY the time President Obama gave his State of the Union address last year, the speech felt like an old friend. It had been part of my life -- from the brainstorming sessions in late November 2009 to the last minute fact-checking. I knew when all of my favorite lines were coming. That led to an awkward moment during the address when I sprang to my feet, applauding the president's tacit endorsement of the free-trade agreement with South Korea, before noticing that the only other person cheering seemed to be Ron Kirk, the special trade representative.
This year, instead of being on the floor of Congress with the rest of the cabinet, I will be watching on television with the rest of the country. Instead of knowing what is coming, I can write about what I hope the president will say. My hope is that the centerpiece of the speech will be a comprehensive plan for dealing with the long-run budget deficit. 
I am not talking about two paragraphs lamenting the problem and vowing to fix it. I am looking for pages and pages of concrete proposals that the administration is ready to fight for. The recommendations of the bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform that the president created are a very good place to start.
The need for such a bold plan is urgent -- both politically and economically. Voters made it clear last November that they were fed up with red ink. President Obama should embrace the reality that his re-election may depend on facing up to the budget problem.
The economic need is also pressing. The extreme deficits of the last few years are largely a consequence of the terrible state of the economy and the actions needed to stem the downturn. But even with a strong recovery, under current policy the deficit is projected to be more than 6 percent of gross domestic product in 2020. By 2035, if the twin tsunami of rising health care costs and the retirement of the baby boomers hits with full force, we will be looking at deficits of at least 15 percent of G.D.P.
Such deficits are not sustainable. At some point -- likely well before 2035 -- investors would revolt and the United States would be unable to borrow. We would become the Argentina of the 21st century.
So what should the president say and do? First, he should make clear that the issue is spending and taxes over the coming decades, not spending in 2011. Republicans in Congress have pledged to cut nonmilitary, non-entitlement spending in 2011 by $100 billion (less if recent reports are correct). Such a step would do nothing to address the fundamental drivers of the budget problem, and would weaken the economy when we are only beginning to recover.
Instead, the president should outline major cuts in spending that would go into effect over the next few decades, and that he wants to sign into law in 2011.
Respected analysts across the ideological spectrum agree that rising health care spending is the biggest source of the frightening long-run deficit projections. That is why the president made cost control central to health reform legislation. He should vow not just to veto a repeal of the legislation, but to fight to strengthen its cost-containment mechanisms.
One important provision of the law was the creation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which must propose reforms if Medicare spending exceeds the target rate of growth. But the legislation exempted some providers and much government health spending from the board's purview. The president should work to give the board a broader mandate for cost control.
The fiscal commission recommended that military spending -- which has risen by more than 50 percent in real terms since 2001 -- grow much more slowly in the future. It also proposed thoughtful ways to slow the growth of Social Security spending while protecting the disabled and the poor. And it recommended caps on nonmilitary, non-entitlement spending.
President Obama needs to explain that while these cuts will be painful, there is no way to solve our budget problem without shared sacrifice. At the same time, he should give a ringing endorsement of government investment in infrastructure, research and education, which increases productivity and thus improves both our standard of living and the budget situation over time. And, following the fiscal commission, he should ensure that spending cuts not fall on the disadvantaged.
Finally, the president has to be frank about the need for more tax revenue. Even with bold spending cuts, there will still be a large deficit. The only realistic way to close the gap is by raising revenue. Some of it can and should come from higher taxes on the rich. But because there are far more middle-class families than wealthy ones, much of the additional money will have to come from ordinary people. Since any agreement will have to be bipartisan, Congressional Republicans will have to come to terms with this fact as well.
AGAIN, the fiscal commission has made sensible proposals. It recommended broad tax reform that lowers marginal tax rates and cuts tax expenditures -- deductions and exemptions for mortgage interest, employer-provided benefits, charitable giving, and so on. Such tax reform cannot be revenue-neutral -- it needs to increase tax receipts. But it can make the system simpler, fairer and more efficient while doing so.
Limiting the exemption of employer-provided health benefits would have the further advantage of making companies and workers more cost-conscious about health care.
Another revenue measure should be a tax on polluting energy. Basic economics says that something that has widespread adverse effects should be taxed. A gradual increase in the gasoline tax would raise revenue and encourage the development of cleaner energy sources. A broader carbon tax would be even better.
None of these changes should be immediate. With unemployment at 9.4 percent and the economy constrained by lack of demand, it would be heartless and counterproductive to move to fiscal austerity in 2011. Indeed, the additional fiscal stimulus passed in the lame-duck session -- particularly the payroll tax cut and the unemployment insurance extension -- is the right policy for now. But legislation that gradually and persistently trims the deficit would not harm the economy today. Indeed, it could increase demand by raising confidence and certainty.
The president has a monumental task. It's extremely hard to build consensus around a deficit reduction plan that will be painful and unpopular with powerful interest groups. The only way to do so is to marshal the good sense and patriotism of the American people. That process should start with the State of the Union.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); BABY BOOMERS (61%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RON KIRK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



431 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Rally Ends With Call to Cut Spending

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
BALTIMORE -- Speaker John A. Boehner closed down the Republican retreat here on Saturday with a declaration that the new House majority was serious about reducing federal spending.
''Washington has an illness,'' Mr. Boehner said, according to remarks distributed by his office. ''The illness is spending. The debt is a symptom of that illness. The American people want it cured. 
''President Obama and Congressional Democrats have been on a job-destroying spending spree that has left us with nothing but historic unemployment and the most debt in U.S. history,'' he said. ''If they want us to help pay their bills, they are going to have to start cutting up their credit cards.''
The reference to help with paying bills was a nod to a coming vote on increasing the federal debt limit, which stands at just over $14 trillion. The Republican leadership used the retreat to prepare lawmakers for the fact that they will be called on to approve such an increase, a vote that many find objectionable. However, Republicans made it clear at the three-day meeting that they intended to demand substantial spending cuts in return.
It was notable that Mr. Boehner, in his remarks, used ''job-destroying spending'' rather than the ''job-killing'' terminology that Republicans have typically favored. Some Democrats have suggested that the term is inappropriate in the wake of the shootings in Tucson last Saturday.
Before Republicans boarded their buses to return to Washington, Reince Priebus, the newly elected chairman of the Republican National Committee, made an appearance to mingle with the lawmakers who occupy the party's bastion of power on Capitol Hill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); HISTORY (70%); APPROVALS (67%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (77%) ARIZONA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



432 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths REGAN, JOHN M.

 BODY:
REGAN--John M.,Jr., former Chairman and CEO of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and a highly respected business leader died Monday. He was 89 and a resident of Ocean Ridge, FL. 
Jack Regan, as he was known, began his career in New York in the Casualty department at Marsh & McLennan in 1946. He was made assistant manager of the Boston office in 1954 and manager of the New York office thirteen years later. A series of promotions led to his appointment as President of Marsh and McLennan Companies in 1972 and CEO the following year. During his thirteen-year tenure as CEO, the company diversified its businesses significantly and developed a strategy to expand its operations globally, resulting in an eightfold growth in the company's revenue and market capitalization. The international expansion advanced markedly with Marsh & McLennan's successful 1980 merger with C. T. Bowring, a Lloyd's-based UK brokerage house. Mr. Regan lived in New York for most of his career where he was active in professional, business and charitable organizations including the Inner-city Scholarship Fund and the Cardinal's Committee on Education for the Archdiocese of New York. He retired in June 1986. Mr. Regan graduated five months early from Yale University in January 1943 so that he could join the war effort. He served as a first lieutenant and platoon commander with the U.S. 22nd Infantry of the 4th Army Division during the Normandy campaign and was seriously wounded in action during the June 22, 1944 attack on Cherbourg. After what he referred to as "gold-bricking" in an English hospital, he returned to duty in a variety of capacities throughout Europe. He earned a Bronze Star and the Purple Heart and was discharged in 1946. Born in Minneapolis, MN on June 7, 1921, John M. Regan, Jr. was the eldest of three children of John M. and Philomena M. Regan. He attended St. Thomas Military Academy and graduated from Yale with honors. He also attended the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University's School of Business Administration. Mr. Regan served as a Trustee of Notre Dame University, Connecticut College, St. Vincent's Hospital and New York Law School and as a Director of Morgan Stanley Group, ACF Industries and the A. C. Nielson Company. He was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Ocean Club of Florida, the Gulf Stream Bath and Tennis Club, the Misquamicut Club and the Watch Hill Yacht Club where he served as Commodore for four years. In addition to his wife of sixty one years, Prudence S. Regan, he is survived by two brothers Robert M. Regan of Minneapolis, MN and Richard F. Regan of Honolulu, Hawaii, six children including John M. Regan III of Watch Hill, RI, Deborah R. Edwards of Hartsdale, NY, Peter M. Regan of New Berlin, NY, R. Christopher Regan of Mendham, NJ, Prudence R. Hallarman of Lincolnshire, IL and William M. Regan of New York, NY and nine grandchildren. A private funeral will be held this week. A memorial service is planned for June. The family requests any donations be made to the Inner-City Scholarship Fund, 1011 1st Avenue #

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); MERGERS (74%); ARMIES (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); TENNIS (67%); SPORTS (67%); CHARITIES (67%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); RELIGION (51%)

COMPANY: MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (95%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); A C NIELSON BASES (51%); ACF INDUSTRIES LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (95%); MHM (LSE) (95%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); NAICS336510 RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC4741 RENTAL OF RAILROAD CARS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



433 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Challenge: Fostering Growth in a Season of Belt-Tightening

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- Economic growth is an elixir for struggling economies, but in Europe it's likely to come slowly to the countries that need it most.
The recovery that has flickered to life in the United States and much of Northern Europe is missing in euro zone nations straining under huge debt and harsh austerity measures -- places like Greece, Ireland and Portugal that have imposed large spending cuts and tax increases.
Those measures may eventually lead to healthier economies, but the process will take years, economists and analysts say. In the meantime, the drag on growth is increasing pressure on the euro, and tethering competitive countries like Germany, a major growth engine, to the faltering fortunes of the European Union's weakest members.
Countries using the euro will grow an average of 1.5 percent this year, according to the International Monetary Fund, less than the 2.3 percent growth it predicted for the United States. While some of that difference reflects slower population growth in Europe, it points to the further relative decline of Europe's weight in the global economy. 
That forecast was made before Congress passed a $858 billion package of tax cuts and incentives in December, which led some economists to raise their growth predictions for the American economy to as high as 4 percent. Europe has no similar stimulus to help stoke a stronger recovery.
The longer-term picture is little better. By 2015, the I.M.F. said, growth in the euro area will come in at just 1.7 percent.
To many analysts, the numbers add up to a long and painful journey back to prosperity.
''This is the most brutal slimming exercise you can imagine, without the help of an exchange rate devaluation,'' said Thomas Mayer, chief economist of Deutsche Bank. ''It will take time and it will create tremendous economic hardship in these countries.''
To be sure, there are some positive signs. None of Europe's biggest economies are on the brink of recession: Germany expanded a healthy 3.6 percent last year, bolstering growth in the euro area. Portugal and Spain, where growth is weak, conducted better-than-expected debt auctions last week.
But analysts were quick to point out that lenders demanded lofty interest rates for the bonds, reflecting worries that Portugal and Spain will eventually need a bailout and signaling skepticism among the markets that Europe can contain its crisis.
European finance ministers will meet in Brussels Monday and Tuesday to discuss increasing Europe's bailout fund and institutional reforms, but on a broader level the debate will be aimed at protecting the single currency. The growing economic divide in Europe means the euro's survival in its current form can no longer be taken for granted if policy makers fail to come up with solutions to the Continent's underlying problems.
While mild growth is expected to return to the likes of Ireland and Portugal within a year, those forecasts have already been tempered.
Exports are a big driver of the Irish economy, and are now the only bright spot after a contraction of its bloated construction sector. But sharp government spending cuts threaten to overshadow any export recovery this year. The I.M.F. now expects the economy to grow just 0.9 percent, down from a 2.3 percent forecast just a few months ago.
Portugal's problems are different. Unlike Ireland, its banks are not troubled. But the government has high debts, and what feeble growth it has will continue to weaken as the government curbs investments designed to stoke export growth, while wage cuts and tax increases hit the economy.
Worse, Germany's economy will start to be buffeted by its neighbors' problems: its growth is expected to slow considerably as the government spends more to keep the euro together. With less cash, its troubled neighbors are also curbing their purchases of German and other imports.
Most of Germany's growth last year came in spring and summer. Since then, it has tapered off, and it is likely to cool to 2 percent this year before sliding to 1.3 percent in 2015, according to the I.M.F.
As recently as 2005, Germany was considered ''the sick man of Europe.'' But it sharply lifted its competitiveness after spending nearly a decade fine-tuning its economy to turn it into a manufacturing powerhouse. It deregulated labor markets, adjusted its tax code, and kept a lid on wages -- measures similar to those being adopted in places like Ireland.
''It was a time that people don't remember too fondly,'' said Mr. Mayer of Deutsche Bank. ''But competiveness came back. And that is the adjustment path that the others now have in front of them.''
Still, not every country can reinvent itself as a manufacturing giant, and those on Europe's southern rim face a challenge in breathing new life into their economies. Greece, for example, is trying to turn itself into a ''green economy'' focused on renewable energy development, a plan the government hopes will create more than 200,000 jobs by 2015. But politicians face a struggle finding the billions needed to turn its dreams into a reality.
The region's waning dynamism is raising alarms in other corners. China recently renewed pledges to help Europe -- which recently overtook the United States as China's largest trading partner -- recover from its sovereign debt crisis. It has also used the crisis as an opportunity to secure major deals in troubled countries, like taking a 35-year lease on Greece's port of Piraeus, one of the major cargo gateways to Europe.
Europe is a huge consumer of imported goods, especially from less expensive emerging markets, and a decline in demand would ripple through other economies.
Last week, Japan, whose own economic weakness has stood out in contrast to China's ascent, surprised investors by announcing it would also step in to bolster Europe. A sharper European downturn could hold back Japan's own recovery by hurting its exports to the region, its third-biggest export market after China and the United States.
Europe's economy could be sent reeling again if a new crisis engulfs its banks. Ireland needed a bailout mainly because the government had agreed to backstop its zombie banks, whose financial precariousness overwhelmed the national Treasury. Many investors worry that Spain's banks are also severely exposed to a collapse in the property sector that will require Madrid to ask for a bailout as well.
''Ireland was a good country gone bad because of its banking sector,'' said Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics. ''That's the risk I'm worried about in the rest of euroland.''
What is certain is that Europe's austerity programs will prove a slow grind on economies and will come with a significant human toll, which will worsen before it improves.
Governments must get their costs down by reducing wages, compensation and income, while cutting spending and raising taxes.
Already, the crisis has reinforced pressure on politicians to pull back on Europe's hallowed social safety nets, which have become cumbersome and even more financially unsustainable as the economic downturn and deteriorating demographics drain funding.
''There is already, and there is going to be a very negative impact on the most vulnerable part of the population,'' said Thomas Klau, a senior political analyst at the European Council on Foreign Relations. ''How this will play out over the next few years remains to be seen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Public transport employees protested in Athens last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUISA GOULIAMAKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Portuguese Prime Minister Jose Socrates last week denied talk that the country would seek outside help on its debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICIA de MELO MOREIRA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); INTEREST RATES (63%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (59%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

PERSON: JOSE SOCRATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); NORTHERN EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); PORTUGAL (91%); GREECE (90%); FRANCE (90%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



434 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: An Assassination's Long Shadow

BYLINE: By ADAM HOCHSCHILD. 
Adam Hochschild is the author of ''King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror and Heroism in Colonial Africa'' and the forthcoming ''To End All Wars: A Story of Loyalty and Rebellion, 1914-1918.''

 BODY:
San Francisco
TODAY, millions of people on another continent are observing the 50th anniversary of an event few Americans remember, the assassination of Patrice Lumumba. A slight, goateed man with black, half-framed glasses, the 35-year-old Lumumba was the first democratically chosen leader of the vast country, nearly as large as the United States east of the Mississippi, now known as the Democratic Republic of Congo.
This treasure house of natural resources had been a colony of Belgium, which for decades had made no plans for independence. But after clashes with Congolese nationalists, the Belgians hastily arranged the first national election in 1960, and in June of that year King Baudouin arrived to formally give the territory its freedom.
''It is now up to you, gentlemen,'' he arrogantly told Congolese dignitaries, ''to show that you are worthy of our confidence.'' 
The Belgians, and their European and American fellow investors, expected to continue collecting profits from Congo's factories, plantations and lucrative mines, which produced diamonds, gold, uranium, copper and more. But they had not planned on Lumumba.
A dramatic, angry speech he gave in reply to Baudouin brought Congolese legislators to their feet cheering, left the king startled and frowning and caught the world's attention. Lumumba spoke forcefully of the violence and humiliations of colonialism, from the ruthless theft of African land to the way that French-speaking colonists talked to Africans as adults do to children, using the familiar ''tu'' instead of the formal ''vous.'' Political independence was not enough, he said; Africans had to also benefit from the great wealth in their soil.
With no experience of self-rule and an empty treasury, his huge country was soon in turmoil. After failing to get aid from the United States, Lumumba declared he would turn to the Soviet Union. Thousands of Belgian officials who lingered on did their best to sabotage things: their code word for Lumumba in military radio transmissions was ''Satan.'' Shortly after he took office as prime minister, the C.I.A., with White House approval, ordered his assassination and dispatched an undercover agent with poison.
The would-be poisoners could not get close enough to Lumumba to do the job, so instead the United States and Belgium covertly funneled cash and aid to rival politicians who seized power and arrested the prime minister. Fearful of revolt by Lumumba's supporters if he died in their hands, the new Congolese leaders ordered him flown to the copper-rich Katanga region in the country's south, whose secession Belgium had just helped orchestrate. There, on Jan. 17, 1961, after being beaten and tortured, he was shot. It was a chilling moment that set off street demonstrations in many countries.
As a college student traveling through Africa on summer break, I was in Leopoldville (today's Kinshasa), Congo's capital, for a few days some six months after Lumumba's murder. There was an air of tension and gloom in the city, jeeps full of soldiers were on patrol, and the streets quickly emptied at night. Above all, I remember the triumphant, macho satisfaction with which two young American Embassy officials -- much later identified as C.I.A. men -- talked with me over drinks about the death of someone they regarded not as an elected leader but as an upstart enemy of the United States.
Some weeks before his death, Lumumba had briefly escaped from house arrest and, with a small group of supporters, tried to flee to the eastern Congo, where a counter-government of his sympathizers had formed. The travelers had to traverse the Sankuru River, after which friendly territory began. Lumumba and several companions crossed the river in a dugout canoe to commandeer a ferry to go back and fetch the rest of the group, including his wife and son.
But by the time they returned to the other bank, government troops pursuing them had arrived. According to one survivor, Lumumba's famous eloquence almost persuaded the soldiers to let them go. Events like this are often burnished in retrospect, but however the encounter happened, Lumumba seems to have risked his life to try to rescue the others, and the episode has found its way into film and fiction.
His legend has only become deeper because there is painful newsreel footage of him in captivity, soon after this moment, bound tightly with rope and trying to retain his dignity while being roughed up by his guards.
Patrice Lumumba had only a few short months in office and we have no way of knowing what would have happened had he lived. Would he have stuck to his ideals or, like too many African independence leaders, abandoned them for the temptations of wealth and power? In any event, leading his nation to the full economic autonomy he dreamed of would have been an almost impossible task. The Western governments and corporations arrayed against him were too powerful, and the resources in his control too weak: at independence his new country had fewer than three dozen university graduates among a black population of more than 15 million, and only three of some 5,000 senior positions in the civil service were filled by Congolese.
A half-century later, we should surely look back on the death of Lumumba with shame, for we helped install the men who deposed and killed him. In the scholarly journal Intelligence and National Security, Stephen R. Weissman, a former staff director of the House Subcommittee on Africa, recently pointed out that Lumumba's violent end foreshadowed today's American practice of ''extraordinary rendition.'' The Congolese politicians who planned Lumumba's murder checked all their major moves with their Belgian and American backers, and the local C.I.A. station chief made no objection when they told him they were going to turn Lumumba over -- render him, in today's parlance -- to the breakaway government of Katanga, which, everyone knew, could be counted on to kill him.
Still more fateful was what was to come. Four years later, one of Lumumba's captors, an army officer named Joseph Mobutu, again with enthusiastic American support, staged a coup and began a disastrous, 32-year dictatorship. Just as geopolitics and a thirst for oil have today brought us unsavory allies like Saudi Arabia, so the cold war and a similar lust for natural resources did then. Mobutu was showered with more than $1 billion in American aid and enthusiastically welcomed to the White House by a succession of presidents; George H. W. Bush called him ''one of our most valued friends.''
This valued friend bled his country dry, amassed a fortune estimated at $4 billion, jetted the world by rented Concorde and bought himself an array of grand villas in Europe and multiple palaces and a yacht at home. He let public services shrivel to nothing and roads and railways be swallowed by the rain forest. By 1997, when he was overthrown and died, his country was in a state of wreckage from which it has not yet recovered.
Since that time the fatal combination of enormous natural riches and the dysfunctional government Mobutu left has ignited a long, multisided war that has killed huge numbers of Congolese or forced them from their homes. Many factors cause a war, of course, especially one as bewilderingly complex as this one. But when visiting eastern Congo some months ago, I could not help but think that one thread leading to the human suffering I saw begins with the assassination of Lumumba.
We will never know the full death toll of the current conflict, but many believe it to be in the millions. Some of that blood is on our hands. Both ordering the murders of apparent enemies and then embracing their enemies as ''valued friends'' come with profound, long-term consequences -- a lesson worth pondering on this anniversary.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RICCARDO VECCHIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); APPROVALS (67%); TORTURE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (93%); BELGIUM (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



435 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: They Could Be Subtler

 BODY:
Bankers would love nothing more than for the rest of the world to move on and forget about the financial meltdown that tipped us into the deepest economic trough since the 1930s. 
This, of course, will not happen anytime soon, but we would still like to offer a couple of suggestions to anxious financiers: (a) public relations management cannot do the trick, but (b) you should improve your public relations skills anyway.
Robert Diamond Jr., the new American chief executive of the British bank Barclays, is a good case in point. You might recall Barclays as one of the largest beneficiaries of the $3.3 trillion emergency programs put in place by the Federal Reserve to stop banks from collapsing -- taking $47.9 billion in loans in one week to make sure securities firms with operations in the United States had cash to provide financing to their clients.
Mr. Diamond recently told a parliamentary panel in London, ''There was a period of remorse and apology for banks -- I think that period needs to be over.'' He also said that ''the question for us is: how do we put some of the blame game behind us?''
Not all bankers are quite this blase. Yet even the more contrite seem to have gotten it wrong: Credit Suisse recently required its senior American employees to give 2.5 percent of their 2010 bonuses to charity. It estimates that this will raise $30 million for good causes. But a little charity from overpaid bankers is hardly going to repair the hole the crisis blasted in the world economy. And the donations, of course, will be tax deductible.
A burst of altruism will not restore the reputation of banking. The real issue is how to instill accountability in banking and do away with the lopsided bet in which the financial system pockets the rewards from the risks it takes and taxpayers cover the bets when they go bad.
This subsidy underpins banks' huge profitability. Today, finance captures 29 percent of the profits of the entire American private sector, up from 19 percent 30 years ago. Only by bearing the cost of their losses will banks be moved to curb their appetite for risky plays.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CHARITIES (74%); TAX LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



436 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Too Little, Then Too Much in Australia

BYLINE: By AUBREY BELFORD

 BODY:
CARPENDALE, Australia -- The smashed remains of Kapernick's Bridge -- with its bent guardrails and a hanging concrete slab where road once was -- are as sure a sign as any that the Lockyer Valley's decade-long drought is finished.
Next door, at the vegetable farm of Steve Kluck, the same inland tsunami that last week smashed apart towns and killed more than a dozen people in the northeast Australian state of Queensland left a deep gouge in the earth covering nearly a hectare, or two acres. Water is now plentiful; soil, unfortunately, no longer is. 
The cost of rebuilding and future losses is hard to calculate, Mr. Kluck said, but will probably be hundreds of thousands of dollars -- still a pittance compared with the losses of some nearby farmers. And there is always the risk of more flooding as Australia's tropical wet season drags on.
''We're picking up all these sticks and crap up there, and she could all be bloody back there in a week,'' Mr. Kluck said. ''We can't give you a figure'' for losses, he said, ''but it's just going to be a pain in the ass for the next 10 years.''
Farmers like Mr. Kluck are among the worst hit in the multibillion-dollar economic toll of Australia's continuing flood crisis, which has affected a combined region of more than a million hectares in five states; in the worst-hit state, Queensland, flooding in regions with a land area more than double that of California has killed at least 28 people. Even as victims in southern Queensland regions cleaned up in the wake of receding waters over the weekend, fresh floods struck in other areas of the country; in the state of Victoria, homes were inundated and more than 3,500 people were forced to evacuate, The Associated Press reported.
Buffeted by a cycle of dispiriting dry followed by overwhelming wet, the farmers are experiencing a fate highlighting the vagaries of Australia's extreme weather. At the same time, it is also adding fuel to a continuing debate over the future of intensive agriculture on a continent drier than all the others save Antarctica.
''Oh, mate, it's going to hurt us financially,'' said Derek Schulz, who owns land downstream near the town of Grantham, which was largely destroyed in the flood. Where more than a week ago fields were ready for a fresh vegetable crop, there is now a plane of cracked mud and the scattered debris of crushed cars, tractors and torn homes.
''We're carrying a huge amount of debt, we're talking my wife and I carrying millions of dollars in debt. And to have a complete wipeout, that's gonna hurt us,'' he said.
Australian farming is a business of high expenditures and thin margins, and Mr. Schulz said he expected many from the town would give up. Insurance will not cover many losses, and government assistance, including disaster grants of up to $25,000 and low-interest loans of up to $250,000, is a fraction of what is required to cover losses and start anew. But Mr. Schulz said he would probably take on fresh debt and return to the land.
''I've got this little saying, 'I've got dirt under the fingernails.' And it's gonna be hard to get rid of that,'' he said.
While some farmers may leave the land because of the floods, the bigger threat in the longer term is still likely to be a lack of water, said Chris Cocklin, an environmental scientist who is the deputy vice chancellor of James Cook University in Queensland. Prior to the start of heavy rains late last year, a drought had gone on for more than a decade across the Murray-Darling basin, a massive irrigated river system in eastern Australia that is the country's most important agricultural area. In many areas, it would take years of significant rain to bring underground aquifers up to healthy levels, Mr. Cocklin said.
Mr. Cocklin warned that it was impossible to easily blame the latest floods on climate change. Rather, the immediate culprit is La Nina, a Pacific weather pattern that has caused havoc from Brazil to Sri Lanka. But he said it was indisputable that, as a result of climate change, ''these extremes are becoming more intensified'' -- meaning more severe, and longer, droughts.
As a result, Australia must consider a less water-intensive agricultural future, Mr. Cocklin said. ''People have to accept that the game's changed,'' he said, particularly in the case of water-hogging crops like rice and cotton.
''They're literally flooding the continent; you know, they're trying to copy monsoon Asia. You'd have to wonder if that's really a smart thing to be doing,'' he said.
In response to the long drought, the government authority responsible for the Murray-Darling released a proposal in October to drastically reduce water consumption by irrigators; some outraged farmers burned copies of the plan in protest.
Amid heavy floods at the start of this year, the National Farmers Federation called on the center-left minority Labor government of Prime Minister Julia Gillard to delay its water reform process. The government has rejected the calls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); DROUGHT (77%); TSUNAMIS (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); WEATHER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); ANTARCTICA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



437 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Illinois Wakes Up

 BODY:
For years, Illinois, like so many states, pretended that it had not fallen off a budgetary cliff. It was spending too much and taking in too little revenue, but every year it would kick its problems into the next. Unable to pay its bills, it finally accepted reality last week and raised taxes on incomes and businesses -- a first step toward getting its house in order.
The action was immediately ridiculed by several governors around the nation who are still pretending that they can cut their way out of the enormous shortfalls they face, without raising taxes. Wisconsin and Indiana predicted a windfall of angry corporations and residents would head their way from Illinois. Even Gov. Chris Christie, the New Jersey Republican, vowed to fly to Illinois to invite businesses there to defect to his state. 
That makes great political theater. But businesses and voters in Illinois, and around the country, should take a closer look at the facts and figures, including their own.
After 22 years of not raising income taxes, Illinois saw its budget shortfall grow to $15 billion. It had the lowest state credit rating in the nation, and it wasn't paying its bills to hospitals and schools.
The Illinois tax rate was low before and remains low for big states. The income tax will rise from a flat 3 percent to a flat 5 percent. That will cause pain at the lower and middle levels of the economic scale, but the state's millionaires will probably stay put. (The top rate is 10.55 percent in California, 8.97 percent in New Jersey and New York, and 7.75 percent in Wisconsin.)
Illinois's corporate tax is going up to 9.5 percent from 7.3 percent, but that by itself is unlikely to send businesses packing. What businesses crave most is a stable environment in which to make profits, and Illinois was anything but stable. Businesses tend not to like it when health and education systems break down.
By taking this step, which will raise about $6.5 billion, the Illinois Legislature has begun to show residents and corporate leaders that it is serious about fixing the budget. It still has a lot more to do. It must brave union opposition and bring down the cost of excessive health and retirement benefits for state employees, and examine all state salaries to make sure they are in line with the private sector. It must adhere to a new system to rebuild the budget each year, based on available revenues.
Almost every state is in deep fiscal trouble this year, but only a few others have admitted that cutting spending will not be enough.
Gov. Jerry Brown of California has proposed $12.5 billion in painful cuts that will hit the poor and higher education particularly hard. He is also rightly warning voters that the pain will be much worse if they do not extend sales and income tax increases for five more years. Oregon raised income taxes at the high end last year, and Kansas and Arizona raised sales taxes.
In too many states, though -- including New York, New Jersey, Maryland and Washington -- voters or governors have rejected higher taxes on high incomes, even though those at the top have experienced a windfall at the federal level.
Governor Christie, who calls his state ''broke'' and faces an upcoming deficit that may be more than $10 billion, has even rejected raising New Jersey's gasoline tax, one of the lowest in the nation.
With federal stimulus aid ending, states are in for their worst year in generations, and they cannot get out of it by either cutting or taxing alone. Illinois is figuring that out, finally. Too many other states are still in denial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



438 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Groceries Fill Aisles At Stores Like CVS

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
For dinner tonight, pick up some sushi and salad -- at Walgreens. Or maybe some Target chicken.
Reflecting a major shift in the way Americans shop for food, retailers better known for selling clothes or aspirin, including Walgreens, CVS/Pharmacy and Target, are expanding in a big way into the grocery business, with fresh produce, frozen meats and, yes, even sushi.
Target invested $500 million last year alone in a new push on groceries, retrofitting some of its general merchandise stores with full-blown food sections. Sales and traffic at stores with the new grocery areas are about 6 percent higher than at similar stores without them, the company says.
Walgreens began making over some stores in Chicago and New York a year ago, and added up to 500 food items. CVS/Pharmacy last year redesigned about 200 of its stores in urban areas like Boston, Detroit and New York, and expects to make over about 20 percent of its 7,100 stores in all. 
As a result, people who typically went to the grocery store once a week to stock up are instead stopping by places whose food items used to be limited to a bag of chips or a can of soup. And retailers are viewing it as an opportunity to increase sales by getting people in their stores more frequently.
''It's going to be a big food fight in the sense that you're going to have so many people going after this sector,'' said Bill Dreher, a retail analyst with Deutsche Bank.
The changes have hit the traditional grocery businesses, stores like Supervalu and Safeway, whose profits had already been declining because of rising food prices, fixed real estate and labor costs, and more competition.
Like the grocers, the convenience stores and discount stores are not making a lot of money on their groceries. Instead, the goal is to draw more customers.
People shop for food on average about 2.5 times a week, Mr. Dreher said, compared with once a month or so for a drugstore or Target. So if the stores can entice shoppers to pick up some groceries on the way home from work, marketing data shows they are likely to add some paper towels or nail polish or a DVD to their carts, spending around the same amount each time they visit.
''Instead of having you stop at a supermarket or a fast-food place,'' said Bryan Pugh, vice president for merchandising for Walgreens, ''could I potentially entice our shoppers with a better range, better assortment?''
So far, the drugstore sales of grocery items are too small to be statistically significant, but they are growing, according to Janney Capital Markets, which estimates that Wal-Mart has about 33 percent of the grocery market, and Target about 3 percent; Kroger, Safeway and Supervalu each represent 4 to 9 percent.
''Stomachs haven't gotten significantly larger, yet you have, probably, at least 10 percent per capita more square footage than you did in the '80s'' devoted to grocery, said Jonathan P. Feeney, an analyst with Janney.
Target began opening stores primarily devoted to groceries, called SuperTargets, in the 1990s. But two years ago, seeking to lure customers during the economic downturn, it began trying out grocery areas in its traditional multipurpose stores.
It now has groceries in about 450 of its 1,750 stores. Another 400 are planned for 2011, and Annette Miller, Target's senior vice president for grocery, said she expected an expanded food department to move into most Target stores eventually.
The grocery section is laid out with islands stacked with fresh vegetables and bakery items, surrounded by refrigerated cases carrying items like pizza, burritos and chicken. Target also carries sandwiches and quick lunches in stores near office buildings.
''What we're finding with this new layout is the number of trips is really increasing,'' said Ms. Miller, adding that when customers come in, they are ''still shopping the entire store.''
Mr. Dreher of Deutsche Bank estimated that shoppers go to Targets with groceries almost twice as often as patrons visit regular Targets. While the gross margins of the grocery business are about 18 percent, well below those of retail, which are about 30.5 percent, groceries both drive visits and make existing stores more profitable, said Colin McGranahan, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein.
At drugstores, the emphasis on food goes beyond increasing foot traffic, to the broader goal of selling more items outside the pharmacy.
''The drugstores were an incredibly profitable business,'' said Mr. Dreher, the Deutsche Bank analyst, when most people paid for prescriptions with cash 10 or 20 years ago. But now, third-party plans are paying for more prescriptions (often at deep discounts), and drugstores' profitability on prescriptions has declined.
So they are pushing other items, with expanded cosmetics departments and bigger toy aisles. Food is one way to get shoppers in stores for reasons other than picking up prescriptions.
Walgreens is devoting up to 40 percent of the space in its redesigned stores to fresh and frozen groceries as a test to see how well food sells. It offers items like cut fruit or sushi in office locations, and staples like lettuce, bananas and meat elsewhere. In higher-income areas, like at one of its Duane Reade stores in Brooklyn, the food section looks like a gourmet grocery, offering six varieties of cage-free eggs, gnocchi, shitake mushrooms and mochi ice cream balls.
The refurbished CVS/Pharmacy stores have larger grocery sections, and also have self-checkout kiosks for quicker trips.
''In urban markets, where there are often not as many groceries or supermarkets, we're finding that these customers are shopping our stores much more for that purpose,'' said Michael DeAngelis, a CVS spokesman.
Grocery stores have largely abandoned inner cities over the recent decades, as suburban areas offered more space for parking and unloading trucks. That has led to ''food deserts,'' as sociologists call them, where urban, low-income areas have little access to fresh or affordable groceries, though there is fast food aplenty.
Though drugstores may be convenient, they are not necessarily a terrific deal for grocery customers. Drugstores buy and store food less efficiently than grocers do, so their food prices are higher. To take one example, a Siggi's yogurt at a Duane Reade in Brooklyn costs $3.19; at a corner store nearby, it costs $2.75.
''There is a cost of convenience, because we are on some of the best corners in America,'' said Mr. Pugh of Walgreens.
Still, Mr. Dreher said, the drugstores' food offerings are an alternative in cities like New York to even more expensive food from neighborhood groceries or bodegas. And with the addition of produce, ''it's actually fresh and healthy food,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From his home in Chicago, Matt Rauscher can walk to a Walgreens that sells groceries.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); RETAILERS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); CONVENIENCE STORES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); STATISTICS (75%); FROZEN FOODS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (65%)

COMPANY: CVS CAREMARK CORP (92%); TARGET CORP (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (92%); TGT (NYSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (92%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (92%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



439 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2140 words

HEADLINE: BETTING ON JUSTICE; Lawsuit Loans Add New Risk For the Injured

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; This project was initiated by the Center for Public Integrity, a nonprofit investigative journalism organization in Washington. It is based on reporting by Ben Hallman and Caitlin Ginley of the center and Binyamin Appelbaum of The Times, and was written by Mr. Appelbaum.

 BODY:
Larry Long, debilitated by a stroke while using the pain medicine Vioxx, was facing eviction from his Georgia home in 2008. He could not wait for the impending settlement of a class-action lawsuit against the drug's maker, so he borrowed $9,150 from Oasis Legal Finance, pledging to repay the Illinois company from his winnings.
By the time Mr. Long received an initial settlement payment of $27,000, just 18 months later, he owed Oasis almost the entire sum: $23,588.
Ernesto Kho had pressing needs of his own. Medical bills had piled up after he was injured in a 2004 car accident. So he borrowed $10,500 from Cambridge Management Group, another company that lends money to plaintiffs in personal-injury lawsuits. Two years later, Mr. Kho, a New Jersey resident, got a $75,000 settlement -- and a bill from Cambridge for $35,939. 
The business of lending to plaintiffs arose over the last decade, part of a trend in which banks, hedge funds and private investors are putting money into other people's lawsuits. But the industry, which now lends plaintiffs more than $100 million a year, remains unregulated in most states, free to ignore laws that protect people who borrow from most other kinds of lenders.
Unrestrained by laws that cap interest rates, the rates charged by lawsuit lenders often exceed 100 percent a year, according to a review by The New York Times and the Center for Public Integrity. Furthermore, companies are not required to provide clear and complete pricing information -- and the details they do give are often misleading.
A growing number of lawyers, judges and regulators say that the regulatory vacuum is allowing lawsuit lenders to siphon away too much of the money won by plaintiffs.
''It takes advantage of the meek, the weak and the ignorant,'' said Robert J. Genis, a personal-injury lawyer in the Bronx who said that he had warned clients against borrowing. ''It is legal loan-sharking.''
Colorado filed suit in December against Oasis and LawCash, two of the largest companies, charging them with violating the state's lending laws.
''It looks like a loan and smells like a loan and we believe that these are, in fact, high-cost loans,'' John W. Suthers, the state's attorney general, said in a recent interview. ''I can see a legitimate role for it, but that doesn't mean that they shouldn't be subject to regulation.''
The companies, however, say that they are not lenders because plaintiffs are not required to repay the money if they lose their cases. The industry refers to the transactions as investments, advances, financing or funding. The argument has persuaded regulators in many states, including New York, that lawsuit lenders are not subject to existing lending laws. Oasis and LawCash have now filed suit against Colorado, asking the court to prevent the state from using lending laws to regulate the industry.
Companies also say that they must charge high prices because betting on lawsuits is very risky. Borrowers can lose, or win less than expected, or cases can simply drag on, delaying repayment until the profit is drained from the investment.
To fortify its position, the industry has started volunteering to be regulated -- but on its own terms. The companies, and lawyers who support the industry, have lobbied state legislatures to establish rules like licensing and disclosure requirements, but also to make clear that some rules, like price caps, do not apply.
Maine and Ohio passed the first such laws in 2008, followed by Nebraska last year. Sympathetic legislators introduced bills in six other states last year; the measures passed the state Senates in New York and Illinois.
Harvey Hirschfeld, a founder of LawCash who keeps binders filled with thank-you notes from borrowers on a shelf in his Brooklyn office, said lawmakers had responded to plaintiffs' needs.
''Sometimes people are in the wrong place at the wrong time, they get in an accident, they're out of work, they don't have cash sitting in the bank, their friends can't help, and they're faced with a terrible situation,'' said Mr. Hirschfeld, who also is chairman of the industry's trade group. ''It's not for everyone, but it's there when you need it.''
High Rates, Low Risk
There was little risk in lending money to Larry Long. The maker of Vioxx, Merck, had already agreed to settle the Vioxx class action. The projected payouts were relatively easy to calculate: Mr. Long's lawyer estimated that he would eventually get a total of about $80,000.
Oasis still imposed its standard pricing: 50 percent of the loan amount if repayment was made within six months, with regular increases thereafter.
Mr. Long and his wife resented the high cost, but they had run through their savings. Mr. Long was legally blind and needed regular dialysis. His wife, Deborah, had left work to care for him. They borrowed $3,000 in February 2008, $3,000 in March and $3,150 in July. ''We were having a crisis, and they knew we were having a crisis,'' Mrs. Long said. ''They take advantage of people that are in need.''
Oasis made loans on similar terms to 43 Vioxx plaintiffs, totaling about $224,000.
Orran L. Brown, the Virginia lawyer appointed to disburse the settlement, described the cost of the loans as ''unconscionable.''
''There was very little risk of nonrecovery, but they were charging full freight,'' he said.
But Gary Chodes, the company's chief, said the performance of the Vioxx loans showed why Oasis must charge high rates. Eight of the 43 borrowers failed to qualify for the settlement, he said, and an additional seven did not win enough to pay the full amount that they owed.
The company waived its claim against the Longs after the couple complained to the federal judge overseeing the Vioxx case. Mr. Chodes said that Oasis acted out of compassion for the couple's personal difficulties, but that the company had done nothing wrong. The Longs asked for money and Oasis clearly explained its terms, Mr. Chodes said. He provided copies of documents on which Mr. Long had recorded his thanks for the loans.
''We were there when he needed help with his house note and his car note and his medical bills. And he was plenty grateful at the time,'' Mr. Chodes said.
Lenders more often invest in cases even earlier in the process, before a settlement is on the table.
James N. Giordano, chief executive of Cambridge Management Group, a New Jersey lender, compared the deals to venture capital. ''It's as if your buddy came up to you and said, 'I'm starting a business, I need $25,000 -- and, by the way, you may never get your money back,' '' he said.
Lawsuit lenders, however, are much better than venture firms at picking winners. Lenders pay lawyers to screen cases, looking for slam-dunks like Vioxx. Three of the largest companies each estimated that they rejected about 70 percent of applications. Oasis said it had approved about 80,000 of 250,000 applications in recent years. To further limit losses, companies say they generally lend no more than 10 or 20 percent of the amount they expect the borrower to win.
Companies say they still lose money in a significant share of cases, from 5 to 20 percent, although there is no way to verify those numbers.
But courts in several states -- including Michigan, New York and North Carolina -- have ruled in recent years that individual borrowers did not need to repay lawsuit loans, finding that the apparent risks did not justify the outsize prices. The rulings have encouraged lenders to avoid judicial scrutiny. Dimitri Mishiev, who runs Alliance Claim Funding, another Brooklyn lender, said that while his prices were fair, he tried to invest only in cases he expected to be settled before trial.
''Everything that might have to go before a judge, you stay away because you don't want the judge to be in the position of saying, 'I don't want that level of payment. I think it's unreasonable,' '' Mr. Mishiev said. ''We don't want judges to shine a light on us.''
Truth in Lending
Lawsuit lenders do not advertise prices; they advertise convenience. They send letters to people who file suits, and run ads on daytime and late-night television, emphasizing that money is available quickly and easily.
When David Kert, a personal-injury lawyer, took a job in 2007 screening applicants for the lender Whitehaven Plaintiff Funding in New York City, he said he was told not to mention the cost of the loans unless asked directly.
Mr. Kert spent the next year answering 50 to 60 calls each workday from plaintiffs and their lawyers. He said many of those people ended up taking loans from Whitehaven without ever asking the price -- as high as 99 percent of the loan amount in the first year.
''I'm sorry I spent any time there,'' Mr. Kert said recently.
Whitehaven did not return calls for comment, but other industry executives are quick to note that borrowers are consenting adults. Furthermore, under the terms of a 2005 agreement between the largest lenders and the New York attorney general's office, borrowers must be given a table showing what they will owe at six-month intervals. The agreement also requires lenders to obtain the signed consent of the borrower's lawyer.
''I don't know any other industry that is as clear as that. Everything is written on the contract and the attorney is reviewing it for you,'' Mr. Hirschfeld said.
But these safeguards are significantly less strict than the requirements that state and federal laws impose on other consumer lenders. They do not dictate how interest rates should be calculated, for example, making it difficult for borrowers to compare prices.
Moreover, outside of New York and the few states that regulate the industry, lenders are not required to follow those procedures -- and in several cases examined by The Times and the Center for Public Integrity, they did not do so.
Carolyn Williams borrowed $5,000 in 2007 from USClaims, a Delaware lender, while pursuing a disability lawsuit against her former employer, an Alabama nursing home. Three years later, her case is unresolved. Her debt stands at $18,976.
Ms. Williams, who left her nursing job after experiencing a debilitating asthma attack, contacted USClaims after seeing an ad on late-night television. She was struggling to pay her bills and her case, which argues that the asthma had been caused by exposure to floor cleaning chemicals, was moving slowly. Two days after she called USClaims, the company wired $5,000 to her bank account.
Ms. Williams said she did not ask about the cost of the loan and she was not told. Her lawyer, Timothy Hughes, said he was not contacted by USClaims until after the loan was made. The contract Ms. Williams signed quoted an annual interest rate of 39 percent, compounded monthly. In fact, she was charged interest and fees equaling 76 percent of the loan amount in the first year.
''I was definitely misled,'' Ms. Williams said recently. ''I never expected that high of a rate.''
Darryl Levine, the president of Delaware-based USClaims, said Ms. Williams's complaint was groundless because the contract clearly showed how much she would owe.
''In over 14 years in this business, I have never had any complaint about the rate-of-return disclosure,'' Mr. Levine said.
Seeking State Approval
The industry's pursuit of regulation on its own terms began in Maine in 2007.
Sharon Anglin Treat, a lawyer and state legislator, had proposed a bill making clear that lawsuit lenders were subject to state consumer protection laws. She said she could not understand why the industry should be allowed to charge higher rates than other lenders.
Oasis, LawCash and other companies persuaded other legislators to reverse the intent of the bill, instead making clear that the rules did not apply to lawsuit loans. Both Ms. Treat and Mr. Hirschfeld said the debate turned on the testimony of three Maine residents who had benefited from the loans. ''These are powerful companies that have lots of money, and they brought in people with these sob stories,'' Ms. Treat said.
Supporters of lawsuit lending next turned its attention to Ohio, where the state's Supreme Court had declared lawsuit lending illegal in 2003. This time, Mr. Hirschfeld said that the industry asked lawyers throughout the state for examples of clients who had suffered because they were not able to borrow money. Both chambers of the legislature voted unanimously in 2008 to legalize the loans.
Last year, Nebraska followed suit, passing a bill sponsored by State Senator Steve Lathrop, a trial lawyer.
''My own personal view of these groups is that I discourage clients from using them,'' Mr. Lathrop said during the final debate. ''I tell them, go borrow from anybody you can before you have to use them.''
''But,'' he concluded, ''the reality is, sometimes there's no other place to turn.''
BETTING ON JUSTICE: Articles in this series are looking at the growing practice of investing in lawsuits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carolyn and James Williams. She borrowed $5,000 from USClaims while pursuing a disability suit. Her case is unresolved. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY TRAMONTINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''It's not for everyone, but it's there when you need it,'' said Harvey Hirschfeld of LawCash, a leading lawsuit lender. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); PERSONAL INJURY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EVICTION (78%); TRENDS (75%); JUDGES (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INTERVIEWS (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



440 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: IN RISING CHINA, LIMITS OF LEADER COME INTO FOCUS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and MICHAEL WINES

 BODY:
BEIJING -- With President Hu Jintao at the helm, China has become a $5 trillion industrial colossus, a growing military force, and, it sometimes appears, a model of authoritarian decisiveness, navigating out of the global financial crisis and sealing its position as the world's fastest rising power.
But as Mr. Hu prepares to visit Washington this week in an attempt to defuse tensions with the United States, Obama administration officials are grappling with what they describe as a more complex reality. China is far wealthier and more influential, but Mr. Hu also may be the weakest leader of the Communist era. He is less able to project authority than his predecessors were -- and perhaps less able to keep relations between the world's two largest economies from becoming more adversarial.
Mr. Hu's strange encounter with Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates here last week -- in which he was apparently unaware that his own air force had just test-flown China's first stealth fighter -- was only the latest case suggesting that he has been boxed in or circumvented by rival power centers. 
American officials have spent years urging Mr. Hu to revalue China's currency, rein in North Korea, ease up on dissidents and crack down on the copying of American technology, and they have felt at times that Mr. Hu agreed to address their concerns. But those problems have festered, and after first wondering if the Chinese leader was simply deflecting them or deceiving them, President Obama's top advisers have concluded that Mr. Hu is often at the mercy of a diffuse ruling party in which generals, ministers and big corporate interests have more clout, and less deference, than they did in the days of Mao or Deng Xiaoping, who commanded basically unquestioned authority.
China's military has sometimes pursued an independent approach to foreign policy. So have many of China's biggest state-owned companies, sometimes to the United States' detriment. The result is that relations between the world's largest superpower and its fastest-rising one are at one of their lowest point in years, battered by confrontations that took Mr. Obama by surprise -- and, on occasion, Mr. Hu as well.
Speaking on Wednesday to students at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner hinted that jockeying for power and an coming leadership transition have degraded China's ability to set consistent policies.
''As China goes through this political transition over the next year or so,'' he said, picking his words carefully, ''in some ways, it's having the effect of slowing the pace of reform because it's inducing a bit of caution.''
Others are more stark. ''There is a remarkable amount of chaos in the system, more than you ever saw dealing with the Chinese 20 years ago,'' Brent Scowcroft, the former national security adviser and Mr. Gates's mentor, said Saturday. ''The military doesn't participate in the system the way it once did. They are more autonomous -- and so are a lot of others.''
Divided leadership has made it harder to resolve disputes with China, much less strike grand bargains like the reopening of relations between the two countries under Mao.
In past meetings, Mr. Hu and his prime minister have indicated that they would let China's currency gradually rise. But the Commerce Ministry promptly labeled the move a ''catastrophe'' for the Chinese economy. Despite Mr. Hu's repeated assurances that the Chinese market would continue to open up to foreigners, business leaders complain that regulators have made it more difficult for foreign energy, communications and banking concerns to compete with China's state-backed favorites.
Not surprisingly, some of the biggest differences focus on how to deal with the United States and its power in the Pacific.
Mr. Hu has repeatedly asserted China's disinclination to challenge American power; his designated foreign policy coordinator, State Councilor Dai Bingguo, recently wrote an article reaffirming Mr. Deng's warning, made back when China's modernization was beginning, that the country should bide its time before seeking a global role.
On Friday, the article was cited by Mr. Obama's national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, who characterized it as ''a definitive statement at this point of the leadership's approach to foreign policy generally and the United States specifically.''
But even Mr. Donilon acknowledged debates ''particularly in the blogosphere and in newspapers in China'' that urge a far faster, more assertive rise, and that trumpet American decline. He said with some understatement that ''following that debate is a very important thing to do.''
Adding to the uncertainty about Mr. Hu's power is an expected leadership change in 2012. It is at once a choreographed transition to a new generation of leaders and a volatile minefield for all contenders, none of whom wish to be viewed as risk-takers, or as subservient to the United States.
Certainly, hopes that China and the United States, briefly dubbed the ''G-2'' when they started common action to counter the world economic crisis early in 2009, would suddenly find a coincidence of interests have turned out to be optimistic. Even when they agree, American officials report that turning talk into action is frustratingly slow.
By any measure, Mr. Hu is the most constrained Chinese leader in modern times. The notion that he could engineer a sweeping policy change the way that Mr. Deng threw open China's economy three decades ago is unthinkable; more often he is a negotiator, brokering deals in a collective leadership where he has never seemed to fully consolidate power.
Part of his problem is systemic. As Mr. Gates discovered in his meeting last week, the absence of the equivalent of a National Security Council in China meant that the military could operate by its own rules. ''The leadership forced the military to start talking to us again,'' one senior administration official said, ''but they couldn't force it not to pull a stunt like the test flight while we were still in Beijing.''
Mr. Hu, of course, has the power, at least on paper, to reach across differing bureaucracies. Often, though, he cannot or will not. The debate over revaluing the renminbi, a constant thorn in the relationship with the United States, has not advanced much partly because of a fight between central bankers who want the currency to rise and ministers and party bosses who want to protect the vast industrial machine that depends on cheap exports for survival.
So far, the battle has made it impossible for China to act decisively -- and it is struggling with inflation as a result. Mr. Obama's aides now want to try a different tack: Rather than harp on currency, they are going to raise other economic issues and see if the pressure of rising inflation, and the fear that it could cause social unrest, will compel the Chinese to raise the value of their currency.
The rise of state-owned corporate behemoths, independent power centers in their own right, has also changed the politics in China and made it harder to address disputes with the United States and other big trading partners.
The administration's latest report on Chinese trade practices, issued last month, says that the growing influence of these corporate giants raises significant questions about China's support for ''ongoing W.T.O. obligations, including core W.T.O. principles,'' referring to the World Trade Organization.
China's ban on exports of crucial rare earth minerals, cast by the government as a corporate decision made without state direction, is the most recent example of the tensions this drift toward state control has raised. But there are others: China Mobile, which dominates the nation's vast wireless market, is pressing phone makers to adopt a Chinese standard for wireless communications that ignores the accepted global standard.
And entire swaths of the Chinese market remain broadly closed to outside competition, including banking, mobile communications, electronic payment processing and the media. Overhauling protected sectors of the economy is no longer a priority of the leadership.
Mr. Hu, of course, is hardly a helpless bystander to many of the decisions that rankle the United States. He is an architect of China's growing repression of political dissidents and its recent efforts to expand its regional clout while the United States is on the economic ropes.
But Mr. Hu lacks the commanding authority of his predecessor, Jiang Zemin, or Mr. Deng.
China's hawkish military undid years of careful diplomacy in the last two years as it flexed its muscles in the South China Sea, harassing American naval vessels and alarming neighboring countries.
No one questions China's civilian control of the military. Mr. Hu and his presumed successor, Xi Jinping, sit atop the Central Military Commission, the body that oversees the military. But as with other parts of the bureaucracy, it is unclear how firm his grip is.
Abraham M. Denmark of the Center for a New American Security in Washington says there are ''many, many examples'' in which the military has blindsided civilian leaders with weapons displays or statements that appear to flout official policy. The issue, he said, is not whether the military is loyal to its civilian leaders but whether Mr. Hu and others can make it bow to the government's broader foreign policy goals, like closer ties to the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: United States Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and President Hu Jintao of China before a meeting in Beijing on Jan. 11. (POOL PHOTO BY LARRY DOWNING) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR FORCES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (63%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (93%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); ROBERT M GATES (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



441 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Politically Confident, Iran Cuts Price Subsidies

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YONG

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- After months of false starts, dire warnings and political wrangling, Iran has embarked on a sweeping program of cuts in its costly and inefficient system of subsidies on fuel and other essential goods that has put a strain on state finances and held back economic progress for years.
The government's success in overcoming political obstacles to make the cuts and its willingness to risk social upheaval suggest that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad may have consolidated power after the internal fractures that followed his bitterly disputed re-election in 2009 -- a development that some analysts believe could influence Iran's position at nuclear talks in Istanbul this month.
''The initial success of the subsidy reform will increase the regime's confidence generally,'' said Cliff Kupchan, a former State Department official who is now a director at the Washington-based Eurasia Group. ''This could make them more assertive in the talks. But more importantly, a confident and unified regime is better positioned to reach consensus on some initial agreement.'' 
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clintonsaid recently that international sanctions had slowed Iran's nuclear program, and the restrictions do seem to have disrupted sectors of the economy, particularly banking and export-related industries. But the sanctions do not seem to be the driving force behind the subsidy cuts.
Iran's foreign exchange revenues also sank in recent years as oil prices fell from prerecession highs, creating greater budget pressures. But Tehran has long sought to cut the subsidies -- even under the reformist administration of President Mohammad Khatami -- and particularly for oil.
The logic is compelling: artificially low prices encourage greater consumption, leaving less oil to export for cash. And the higher oil prices rise, the greater the ''opportunity costs'' in lost exports. But the timing, whether for political or economic reasons, was never right to cut the subsidies.
While the government may be feeling economic pressure now, analysts say, the current program of cuts is principally a sign of its political strength, having vanquished the opposition that sprang up after the 2009 elections and stared down the government's traditional conservative wing, which has challenged Mr. Ahmadinejad's authority.
''This was something the two previous administrations wanted to do but could not accomplish,'' said Kevan Harris, a graduate student at Johns Hopkins University who has written extensively on Iran's economy and social welfare system. ''Now that the liberals have been sidelined, like any good politician, Ahmadinejad has taken the most popular ideas from the opposing side and implemented them himself.''
The success of the subsidy cuts so far also seems to have contributed to a continuing reassessment of Mr. Ahmadinejad. He emerged in the diplomatic cables released by WikiLeaks as something of a sober pragmatist -- battling with retrograde forces in the government -- rather than as the ranting extremist he seemed when he called for Israel to be wiped off the map. In October 2009, according to one of the cables, he argued for a nuclear compromise promoted by the United States that would have sent uranium out of the country for enrichment. And during the protests following the 2009 elections, he is reported to have argued for more freedom of the press -- until a general in the Revolutionary Guards slapped him and shouted, ''It is you who created this mess!''
The subsidy cuts, which the International Monetary Fund says have amounted to $4,000 a year for the average Iranian family, began in earnest last month when the rationed price of gasoline jumped to about $1.44 a gallon from just 38 cents. With a ration of only 16 gallons a month at the subsidized rate, most motorists buy the bulk of their fuel now at the even higher market rate of $2.64 per gallon, significantly more than the $1.80 that people pay in nearby Dubai.
In recent weeks, subsidies have also been reduced on flour, water and diesel. But the spike in prices has not provoked the angry protests that followed the introduction of fuel rationing in 2007. The price of bread has tripled, on average, the government says; water, which used to be practically free, now costs between 10 cents and 85 cents per cubic meter, based on a sliding scale under which consumers pay a higher rate the more they use.
The government says these are just the first steps in what it calls an ''economic transformation plan'' that will also include banking reform, sweeping changes in Iran's tax and customs system, and ever more privatization of state-owned industries. And with officials already reporting drops in the consumption of gasoline, flour, diesel and electricity, even before the prices were raised, Mr. Ahmadinejad has been exultant.
''I believe that the Imam of Our Time has managed this plan and supports it,'' he said in a speech last week, citing the ''hidden'' 12th imam revered by Shiite Muslims as the embodiment of justice and righteousness.
Iran's state-directed economy has long been plagued by corruption, inflation, inefficiencies and unemployment, which is particularly high among young people. The problems have damaged Iran's ability to compete in world markets. Ending state controls and subsidies have long been seen as the first step in reviving a moribund economy that the C.I.A. estimates grew by an anemic 1.5 percent in 2009. Analysts say the unemployment and inflation rates are about 20 percent, nearly double the official figures of 11.8 percent and 12.2 percent respectively.
Energy use was the most obvious place to start in reducing subsidies. Iran's population has doubled since the Islamic Revolution in 1979, but energy consumption is five times higher. Few educated Iranians still believe in the old Khomeinist doctrine that Iranians have a right to free energy because of their country's oil wealth.
Until now, however, efforts to increase energy efficiency have been virtually nonexistent. Energy experts say that only 3 percent of buildings nationwide have adequate insulation, and until now it has been common for people to run their central gas heating 24 hours a day with their windows open to allow in fresh air. Official estimates put the cost of energy waste in Iran at $30 billion a year.
''I used to be the kind of person to have all the lights on because I liked the house to be very bright,'' says Fariba, 28, an office worker. ''But now I've changed my ways. I think it's because they have been talking about it so much on the radio and television.''
Some of the financial blow to consumers has been softened by cash payments of around $40 a month, which the government says it is paying to 60 million Iranians. The first two months' payments were deposited in bank accounts in late October, but the money was not available for withdrawal until the middle of last month.
''They made so much fuss about the $40, they made it seem like $40,000,'' said a senior economist at a government-run financial institution, who lauded government officials as ''social psychologists'' who made the public more receptive to the subsidy cuts. He asked not to be quoted by name because he was not authorized to talk to reporters.
''By putting the money in people's accounts but not letting them spend it,'' he said, ''somehow people became eager for the plan to begin.''
The public seems to have embraced the program. That includes Shahla, 50, a schoolteacher and mother of two who, like others interviewed, refused to give her last name for fear of the authorities, and who has long been critical of the government on just about everything.
''We've become very economical over the past months,'' she said. ''I heard that it's a good thing, and that it will help us enter the world market.''
She says she now washes only large loads of laundry and has urged her family to wear warmer clothes in winter instead of lighting a gas fireplace.
During an interview at his home, the financial manager of a medium-size steel-piping manufacturer told his daughter to turn off two lights in the living room right before he described how the subsidy cuts were beginning to show up on his company's balance sheet.
Transportation costs jumped 20 percent last month after diesel subsidies were cut, he said, and he expected that this month's electricity bill would be about three times the previous charge, if scheduled cuts go into effect. But he says these are just the latest in a long line of mounting financial pressures he has faced over the past year.
Even before the subsidy reforms began, the manager said, costs increased across the board this year by 15 percent, with scrap steel, the company's main raw material, nearly twice as expensive as it was a year ago. But despite the rising costs and the anticipation of more shocks to come, the manager fully accepts the logic of a plan that he says will make competition ''realistic.''
''We knew many years ago that prices would have to be normalized,'' he said after dinner in his modest home in Tehran's western suburbs. ''It should have happened a long time ago.''
''It has to happen; otherwise we will never learn the true value of raw materials,'' he said.
Depending on how well Iran's government can stave off the worst effects of the price shocks, the subsidy reforms could be a political victory for Iran's new right wing -- a success for Mr. Ahmadinejad where liberals, now almost entirely excluded from Iran's political scene, had failed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's subsidy cuts suggest he has consolidated power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATTA KENARE/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); LIBERALISM (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); EXPORT PRICES (70%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (68%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (89%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (57%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAN (89%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



442 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: BUDGET WORRIES PUSH GOVERNORS TO SAME MIND-SET

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Emma Graves Fitzsimmons contributed research.

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- The dismal fiscal situation in many states is forcing governors, despite their party affiliation, toward a consensus on what medicine is needed going forward.
The prescription? Slash spending. Avoid tax increases. Tear up regulations that might drive away business and jobs. Shrink government, even if that means tackling the thorny issues of public employees and their pensions.
In years past, new governors have introduced themselves in inaugural remarks filled with cheery, soaring hopes; plans for expansions to education, health care and social services; and the outlines of new, ambitious local projects.
But an examination of more than two dozen opening addresses of incoming governors in recent days shows that such upbeat visions were often eclipsed by worries about jobs, money and budget gaps. Those speeches are the best indication thus far of the intentions of this class of 37 governors -- 26 new and the others re-elected. 
''The rhetoric has grown very similar,'' said Scott D. Pattison, executive director of the nonpartisan National Association of State Budget Officers. ''A lot of times, you can't tell if it's a Republican or Democrat, a conservative or a liberal.''
In Wisconsin, the new Republican governor, Scott Walker, says that any prospect of a tax increase is off the table, and that he wants to ''right-size'' state government, meaning, he says, that it would provide ''only the essential services our citizens need and taxpayers can afford.''
In California, the new Democratic governor, Jerry Brown, lists as one of his guiding principles (second only to his tenet to ''speak the truth'') support for new taxes only if voters want them. And he says it is time to examine the state's system of public pensions -- an increasingly vitriolic political issue in states around the country -- to ensure that they are ''fair to the workers and fair to the taxpayers.''
Without question, this emerging consensus comes in a wide range of degrees. Exceptions have also emerged.
Here in Illinois, a state that has wrestled with some of the most dire financial circumstances in the country, including some $8 billion in unpaid bills to social services agencies and others and a desperately underfinanced pension system, Gov. Patrick J. Quinn, a Democrat, pledged after renewing his oath of office simply to ''stabilize our budget.'' Three days later, on Thursday, he did the reverse of what so many governors are urging, and signed a 66 percent increase in the state's income tax rate.
And in Minnesota, where Gov. Mark Dayton, another Democrat, faces a $6.2 billion deficit and a Legislature controlled by Republicans, he has advocated for a tax increase on the wealthy.
After being sworn in this month, Mr. Dayton told the crowd, ''To those who sincerely believe the state budget can be balanced with no tax increase -- including no forced property tax increase -- I say, if you can do so without destroying our schools, hospitals and public safety, please send me your bill, so I can sign it immediately.'' Otherwise, Mr. Dayton said, he hoped his colleagues would work with him on ''this challenging, complicated and essential'' budget process.
Though public remarks in the moments after being sworn into office may be the first signal of a governor's true intentions, actual policies can be another matter entirely. Those can depend, not least of all, on the decisions of legislatures. And governors of all political stripes have a tendency to talk tough in their early days.
The difference now, experts say, is that the financial circumstances leave little room to do nothing, and governors will soon be tested on their words -- as early as in the next few weeks, when many of them must propose budgets for next year.
Some states seem better off (North Dakota) and others worse (California), but the shared, essential problem in many states is simple: not enough money coming in to pay for all that is going out.
While state revenues -- shrunken as a result of the recession -- are finally starting to improve somewhat, federal stimulus money that had propped up state budgets is vanishing and costs are rising, all of which has left state leaders bracing for what is next. For now, states have budget gaps of $26 billion, by some estimates, and foresee shortfalls of at least $82 billion as they look to next year's budgets.
This class of governors arrives in a wave of Republican victories in the 2010 elections for state legislatures and governorships, a trend that may be affecting everyone's approach. Even in states where the fiscal struggles have been less pronounced, new governors are sounding warnings and talking, again and again, of waste, frugality, simplicity, shared sacrifice and painful choices.
''Some of our sister states and some cities within them face the very real possibility of bankruptcy because of their mountains of deficits and debt,'' said Dennis Daugaard, the newly inaugurated Republican governor of South Dakota, who has asked departments in his state to cut spending by 10 percent and has announced that he would cut his own annual salary to $98,000 from the $115,331 his predecessor collected.
''They have promised their citizens something for nothing,'' Mr. Daugaard said of other states during his inauguration in Pierre this month, ''and created a society where everyone wants to be carried and no one wants to pull their own weight.''
Governors appeared to be girding residents for a rocky road ahead -- a path they seemed to sense residents may not yet grasp, given headlines of improvements in other parts of the economy.
Many called for bipartisanship in their efforts (the words ''Republican'' and ''Democrat'' are not mentioned in the Maine Constitution, reported Gov. Paul R. LePage, a Republican), and alluded to past moments of crisis (hurricanes, yellow fever outbreaks, even a ''dark day'' in 1780 when daytime skies were said to mysteriously appear nightlike in New England) as rallying points for the current gloom.
In his speech, Rick Scott, the new Republican governor of Florida, called for eliminating a business tax and reducing property taxes. He dubbed taxation, regulation and litigation ''the axis of unemployment.'' And he issued a warning: ''No job -- public or private -- should be immune from accountability.''
On the other side of the country, and in the other major political party, John Kitzhaber, the new governor of Oregon, elaborately described the state, which needs to bridge a projected budget deficit of $3.5 billion, as an old house in need of an overhaul.
''There are too many rooms, and they aren't the right size,'' Mr. Kitzhaber said. ''There's no insulation, and the windows are drafty. And the cost of keeping this house is more than the family can afford. The roof needs to be replaced, and the siding is falling off.''
In New York, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, another Democrat, sounded a similar call. ''We must right-size the state government for today,'' said Mr. Cuomo, who added that New York had no future if it intended to be ''the tax capital of the nation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SCOTT WALKER: Republican of Wisconsin (PHOTOGRAPH BY MORRY GASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
MARK DAYTON: Democrat of Minnesota (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM MONE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
RICK SCOTT: Republican of Florida (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
JERRY BROWN: Democrat of California (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN G. MABANGLO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
PAUL R. LePAGE: Republican of Maine (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAT WELLENBACH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 DENNIS DAUGAARD: Republican of South Dakota (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG DREYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (76%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INCOME TAX (64%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%); RICK SCOTT (79%); MARK DAYTON (78%); DENNIS DAUGAARD (58%); JERRY BROWN (58%); PAUL LEPAGE (58%); PAT QUINN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



443 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Efforts to Rein In the Power of Unions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Once again, labor unions are under attack (''Strained States Turning to Laws to Curb Labor Unions,'' front page, Jan. 4).
What is remarkable is the extent to which politicians (primarily, though not exclusively, Republicans) are using the current economic situation to fulfill longstanding political goals. We should not be surprised that the dominant response seems to be: weaken labor unions; undermine entitlement programs; cut taxes on the wealthy; privatize public assets; deregulate.
Not surprised, perhaps, but certainly angry. We got into this mess because of the greed and stupidity of bankers, and the willingness of legislators to deregulate the financial sector in the first place and permit a wide polarization of income and wealth. 
No plausible case can be made that this economic crisis is somehow the fault of the elderly poor, or Medicaid recipients, or union members or the unemployed, but it is these people who are bearing the brunt of budget cuts and deregulation. Using an economic crisis as an excuse to reduce further the threadbare safety net and labor market protections -- to further a political agenda that far predates our current sorry economic condition -- is shameful.
Chris Howell Oberlin, Ohio, Jan. 4, 2011
The writer is a professor of politics at Oberlin College.
To the Editor:
Bravo to the brave governors who have begun reining in labor unions. I hope that such a movement, long overdue for common-sense, nonpolitical reasons, blossoms from coast to coast. Otherwise, as powerful as they've become, labor unions will perpetuate our ever-rising taxes and the overall decline of our country.
I was reared on a family farm where pennies were always pinched, every day was a workday, and there were no such things as pensions or vacations, let alone paid ones.
Susan Kross Dairyland, N.Y., Jan. 4, 2011
To the Editor:
Your article about efforts to curb government workers' salaries and pension benefits made me think about our general economic ''race to the bottom.''
Rather than get angry and dismantle the remaining decent-paying jobs with earned pensions, why not question why these same benefits are becoming a rarity in the private sector?
With the last 20 years of economic gains going to a sliver at the top, we now focus on beating up the remaining solid middle-class workers who actually possess what we all have been working for: a decent standard of living.
Elizabeth Angyal Chicago, Jan. 4, 2011
To the Editor:
We are getting punch-drunk from vitriolic arguments about unionized government workers destroying the economy. Three points:
(1) Government workers tend to be better educated and more skilled than the general labor force, and correcting for these factors results in the startling news that government workers are actually paid 4 percent less than comparable private-sector workers, according to the Center for Economic Policy Research.
(2) Current pensions and wages were negotiated in good faith by unions and public-sector employers, commitments were made and now these workers suddenly find themselves unfairly blamed for a financial meltdown caused by (unpunished and unaccountable) actors in the private sector.
(3) Government workers are taxpayers and voters, and they have every right to speak collectively through their unions in debates over their work lives and public policy. There is an employment system where workers are forbidden to demand fair conditions or compensation, and where employers control everything. It's called slavery.
Sally M. Alvarez New York, Jan. 4, 2011
The writer teaches labor relations in the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell, Extension Division.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); DEREGULATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MEDICAID (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



444 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: In an Online Gaming World, Tucson Suspect Gave Hints of Real-World Problems

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM; Sarah Wheaton contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Among the many traces that Jared L. Loughner, the young man charged with killing six people and wounding 13 others in a shooting spree in Tucson, left on the Internet were forum postings that reveal a deeply troubled individual struggling to make sense of his life and circumstances.
The chat logs, pulled from an obscure online game called Earth Empires, were first uncovered last week by The Wall Street Journal. Based on the initial postings, it seems Mr. Loughner was active on other online gaming forums as well, and was introduced to Earth Empires by someone he knew offline. 
His postings -- which varied wildly in topic, ranging from casual chatter about school exams and game play strategies to chilling rants about conflicts at work -- may offer some glimpses into whatever inner demons the 22-year-old was battling.
The Earth Empires discussion boards are an integral part of the game, which is more primitive than later online games because game play, which challenges players to govern a country and make decisions about economic and military tactics, is largely based on typing in commands. Mr. Loughner's exchanges on the site seem to be a crucial component of his daily social interactions, not uncommon for any member of an online community.
''What starts out as a place where you talk about tactics in the game turns into a social place to hang out and talk to your buddies, even if you've never met them,'' said Brian Crecente, the editor in chief of Kotaku, a blog that covers gaming culture and the industry.
On Friday, the staff behind the game said it had decided to publish the entire archives of Mr. Loughner's conversations after ''a great deal of discussion'' to ''provide proper context for many of the quotes that have been surfacing in the media in recent days.''
The administrators of the game, in a posting on the site, said they were ''absolutely horrified that someone who had been part of our relatively small group could be involved in such a horrible act.''
''We're all shocked and saddened, and our hearts go out to the victims and their loved ones,'' they said.
Mr. Loughner's postings, which were listed under the alias ''Dare,'' first appeared in April last year, starting with a warm introduction to the small community of gamers. They quickly began revealing the agitated nature of the person behind them.
In May, Mr. Loughner described his frustration at not being able to maintain steady employment, writing that he had been fired five times. He described having to walk out of a Red Robin restaurant because of a ''terrible situation. Mental breakdown.''
Mr. Loughner's postings often delved into dark territory, musing about abuse and rape. Most were confusing strings of words and numbers that are difficult to decipher. ''When I see the universe as a whole... I freak at how the world is,'' he wrote on one occasion.
The perturbing and often bewildering nature of his comments did not go unnoticed by other Earth Empires players.
''The more I read Dare's posts, the more I think he's just drunk/high when he posts,'' one player wrote in May.
''I have no substance abuse problems currently,'' Mr. Loughner said in response. ''Dude -- I feel as if there is something wrong.''
But by the second week of June, as quickly as they had begun, the postings suddenly stopped.
It seems that Mr. Loughner may have thought of his gamer friends as something of a support network. On May 15, he wrote on the Earth Empires message boards, ''This is like my social life.'' He then added, ''I know everything is made fun of.''
It is not uncommon for people who are part of any online community to form bonds and casual relationships with the people they interact with on the Web.
But based on the responses from the players in the Earth Empires community, Mr. Crecente said, ''I don't know if it ever got to that point.''
''Frankly, I was surprised at how willing they were to accept his postings,'' he said. ''They were so disconnected and disconcerting. ''The players' responses are sort of joking and, by the end, they're actually getting concerned about him.''
In response to one thread that Mr. Loughner started about dealing with an overwhelming sense of aggression, one user wrote, ''Soon as you realize that ppl are not worth getting mad at the sooner you will be happy.'' Another member suggested he try meditation to deal with his stresses.
Mr. Crecente said he had not heard of Earth Empires before the logs were discovered. The game, he said, is relatively unknown and dates to the '90s.
Unlike the action-laden games with rich graphics that tend to be more popular among online gamers, Earth Empires appears to be largely text-based. It attracts a fraction of some of the larger multiplayer games, like World of Warcraft, which has 12 million global subscribers.
''By all accounts, it's more of a thinking game,'' Mr. Crecente said. ''It sounds like the kind of thing that would appeal to him because it has set rules and guidelines you have to follow.'' The general response from the gaming community has been mixed.
Many seem to be concerned that the Mr. Loughner's violent acts might be tied to his penchant for playing multiplayer online games or be misconstrued as common behavior among gamers.
In response to an article about Mr. Loughner's online gaming habits on G4TV, a blog that covers games as well as other technology news, one commenter using the handle LiquidSnake41 expressed dismay at the news.
''Awesome. Another reason for the media to attack gamers,'' LiquidSnake41 wrote. ''This guy was a lunatic, regardless of what he did as a hobby.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); 2011 TUCSON SHOOTING (90%); SHOOTINGS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); GAMING (70%); ACADEMIC TESTING (69%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (91%) ARIZONA, USA (91%); EARTH (72%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



445 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Better Approaches to Home Loans?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Bethany McLean is correct that the 30-year mortgage is an outdated product (''Who Wants a 30-Year Mortgage?,'' Op-Ed, Jan. 6). It was created in the 1940s, back when Americans lived in the same house for most of their lives. Today, the average American either moves or refinances every five to seven years.
As Ms. McLean argues, financial institutions should keep their mortgages on their books. Up north, Canadian banks hold more than two-thirds of their loans. And their rates are fixed for a statutory maximum of five years. 
During the recent recession, while about 14 percent of American mortgages were in arrears, fewer than 1 percent of Canadian mortgages were in foreclosure or delinquent.
Today, the 30-year mortgage is undermining our economy. Shorter-term mortgages with lower rates and payments make better sense for both banks and borrowers.
Arkadi Kuhlmann President and C.E.O. ING Direct USA Wilmington, Del., Jan. 7, 2011
To the Editor:
While Bethany McLean makes some reasonable points, I disagree with her suggestion that the United States move away from long-term, fixed-rate mortgages. The alternative system she suggests would move huge numbers of homeowners into shorter-term, adjustable-rate mortgages.
The evidence from the foreclosure crisis undeniably shows that adjustable-rate mortgages, other things held constant, suffer from higher default rates. While appropriate in some circumstances, they shift interest rate risks onto borrowers.
The answer to not putting too much risk on the back of the government is not to shift it onto (often unsophisticated) homeowners, most of whom have essentially no ability to hedge against such risk. The answer is to have a well-regulated private sector, together with some carefully financed government insurance, deal with interest rate risks.
Until the United States makes a serious commitment to making affordable and stable rental housing options much more widely available (I won't be holding my breath), the need for a long-term, fixed-rate and well-regulated mortgage product for middle-income families remains clear.
Dan Immergluck Atlanta, Jan. 6, 2011
The writer is an associate professor at the School of City and Regional Planning, Georgia Institute of Technology, and the author of ''Foreclosed: High-Risk Lending, Deregulation and the Undermining of America's Mortgage Market.''
To the Editor:
Re ''Home Team'' (Op-Ed, Jan. 6):
Alex Perriello crafts a creative solution to the mortgage mess in his suggestion for ''equity-sharing'' between lenders and borrowers, but implies that implementing such a program would be easy, and that it would solve the problem of lenders, investors and borrowers having opposing interests.
In reality, such a program would be extremely complicated to administer, would lead to tremendous amounts of litigation to determine the correct sale price, and would not solve the failure of the banking industry to create a structure to make decisions about loans that had been sold to investors.
Such pie-in-the-sky ideas sound good in the newspaper, but do not take into consideration what is really happening in the foreclosure process, where lenders refuse to work with their borrowers.
Avram Frisch Paramus, N.J., Jan. 7, 2011
The writer is a lawyer specializing in foreclosure defense.
To the Editor:
Unfortunately, Alex Perriello's proposal to solve the current mortgage crisis by implementing equity-sharing arrangements between lenders and underwater homeowners ignores the single most important indicator of future loan performance and default risk: how much equity a homeowner has in his or her home.
Lack of equity is the driving factor behind the current wave of ''strategic defaults,'' in which homeowners simply choose to stop making their mortgage payments because they owe more on their home than it is currently worth.
Under Mr. Perriello's proposal, homeowners would walk away from what are certain to be lengthy negotiations involving attorneys, appraisers, title companies and so forth with a partial interest in a fully leveraged house and a commitment to share any future profits with a lender.
''Wouldn't cost taxpayers a dime,'' he says? Can anyone say ''too big to fail''?
Clay S. Harrow Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., Jan. 6, 2011
The writer is a lawyer and the president of a real estate brokerage firm.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JIM FRAZIER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); WRITERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (75%); RECESSION (74%); FAMILY (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (57%); ING BANK FSB (55%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (57%); INGA (AMS) (57%); ING (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (55%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



446 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: The Law? She'll Do It Her Way, Thank You

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
It is at least a little amusing to think of Harriet -- Harry -- Korn as Ally McBeal several decades later, having never shed her menopausal weight gain and only ballooning further, thanks to a diet of grease and packaged cupcakes. Played by Kathy Bates with a likable cynicism, Harry is the fatigued and disaffected lawyer at the center of ''Harry's Law'' (beginning Monday on NBC), a woman who has clearly worked too hard at the expense of any real fulfillment, only to conclude that her job was no more thrilling than sorting mail.
When we meet Harry, she is sacked out at work, cartoons playing on the television behind her. Snack foods form a mountain in front of her; records of billable hours clearly do not. Within the first few minutes she is fired from her job as a $600,000-a-year Cincinnati patent lawyer. And thank the gods of programming for that. Imagine a series in which suspense were contingent on whether the Patent and Trademark Office was going to approve the invention of a new kind of parking meter for deployment in municipalities of southern Ohio. 
''Harry's Law'' comes to us from David E. Kelley, whose many legal series reproduce so liberally from his archive of freak-show cases, hallucination sequences, nut jobs, intransigents and clown-college office dynamics that, in a sense, he is his own copyright infringement problem. The premise here is that Harry doesn't simply retire to Hilton Head and 9-irons but instead stomps across town and sets up an ad hoc practice in a crime-infested neighborhood that looks about as realistic as the set of ''Good Times.'' (If prostitutes in drug zones were this well toned, they would last three hours on the streets before being recruited to appear in ad campaigns for Nautilus.) Despite its location Harry's office has a wood-heavy elegance, and her assistant immediately decides to use it as a shoe store too.
A hallmark of Mr. Kelley's shows is often the thinnest application of logic or reason in depictions of a world dedicated to logic and reason. Here he invokes a fantasy liberalism in which the judicial system is a constant and magnanimous corrective for a social and economic structure that forces good people (impoverished 87-year-old grandmothers for instance) to do imprudent and felonious things (armed robbery for instance).
Harry's primary adversary in court is a jerk, not because of below-board tactics or slimy oratory but because of a bone-headed conservatism that reveals him not even to know that drug legalization has its roots as a right-wing initiative. Harry's purpose on the show seems partly to enlighten him; partly to confirm for millions of people who don't watch Fox News that they are correct not to do so; and partly to tell the Glenn Beck lovers out there that if they want serial drama that affirms their opinions, they had better go elsewhere.
''Harry's Law'' is lighthearted sanctimony; ''Fairly Legal,'' a new series beginning Thursday on USA, is merely lighthearted, a drama similarly focused on a female lawyer transitioning out of the flavorless soup kettle of big-firm casework. Here the female -- Kate Reed, played by Sarah Shahi -- is younger by about three decades and curvy enough never to have been within 50 retail-district blocks of the kind of pantsuits Harry favors. The costuming department has put Kate in clothing so tight and heels so high, they make Ally McBeal's notorious miniskirt suits seem like something you would expect to find on Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
''Fairly Legal'' is not Mr. Kelley's creation, but it bears his soap-shenanigans insignia. Finished as a lawyer, at her own volition, Kate works at her father's San Francisco practice as a mediator negotiating wacky disputes between aggrieved parties. Her father is recently dead, so she converses with his ashes as she suffers under the thumb of his young blond wife, one of the firm's senior partners and a pesky keeper of the bottom line.
For after-hours company Kate has her ex-husband, in the district attorney's office, with whom she shares cheap food-sex metaphors and occasional sleepovers on her houseboat. Like the relationship the series feels unfinished, not altogether there in its understanding of itself. Kate is trying to reinvent herself but doing it exactly where she came from. And Ms. Shahi plays her as if Kate were the product entirely of scrappy hard work, odd for a character whose career would seem largely nepotistic. The bigger problem is that ''Fairly Legal'' perpetrates the crime of delivering to viewers another woman whose intelligence seems largely instinctual. Kate has a knack for conflict resolution and making peace. With the right kind of gut, she is a lawyer of the ''Legally Blonde'' school.
What were her board scores? Lower, I would guess, than Harry Korn's.
HARRY'S LAW
NBC, Monday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.
Produced by Bonanza Productions Inc. in association with David E. Kelley Productions and Warner Brothers Television. Created and written by David E. Kelley; Mr. Kelley and Bill D'Elia, executive producers.
WITH: Kathy Bates (Harriet Korn), Nate Corddry (Adam Branch), Brittany Snow (Jenna) and Ami Amean (Malcolm Davies).
FAIRLY LEGAL
USA, Thursday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.
Produced by Universal Cable Productions. Created by Michael Sardo; Mr. Sardo and Steve Stark, executive producers.
WITH: Sarah Shahi (Kate Reed), Virginia Williams (Lauren Reed), Michael Trucco (Justin Patrick) and Baron Vaughn (Leonardo Prince).

CORRECTION-DATE: January 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Monday with television reviews of ''Harry's Law,'' on NBC, and ''Fairly Legal,'' on USA, misidentified an actor shown in a scene from ''Fairly Legal.'' He is Michael Trucco -- not Justin Patrick, the character he plays.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harry's Law with Kathy Bates begins Monday on NBC
''Fairly Legal'' starts Thursday on USA. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAE PATTON/NBC) (C1)
 Justin Patrick and Sarah Shahi in ''Fairly Legal'' on USA. Ms. Shahi's character is a lawyer who has become a mediator. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MOIR/USA NETWORK) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (88%); PATENT LAW (76%); DRUG POLICY (76%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (76%); LAW PRACTICE (76%); LAWYERS (76%); DISMISSALS (75%); PATENTS (73%); COPYRIGHT LAW (71%); COPYRIGHT (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); FELONIES (68%); APPROVALS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); CONSERVATISM (64%); LIBERALISM (64%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (62%); SHOE STORES (50%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (50%); ROBBERY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (76%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Fairly Legal (TV Program); Harry's Law (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



447 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Scheduled for this week are housing starts for December (Wednesday); existing home sales for December, the Philadelphia Fed's manufacturing index for January and leading economic indicators for December (Thursday). 
EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings will include Citigroup, Delta Air Lines, Charles Schwab, TD Ameritrade, Apple and I.B.M. (Tuesday); Bank of New York Mellon, Goldman Sachs, State Street, U.S. Bancorp, Wells Fargo and eBay (Wednesday); Morgan Stanley, Southwest Airlines, UnitedHealth, Advanced Micro Devices and Google (Thursday); Bank of America, General Electric, Schlumberger (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Financial markets, government offices and many businesses will be closed in observance of Martin Luther King's Birthday (Monday); President Hu Jintao of China will visit the United States and meet with top leaders (Tuesday-Friday).
OVERSEAS European finance ministers will meet in Brussels, and Airbus will have its annual press conference (Monday); China will report fourth-quarter domestic product and inflation for December (Thursday); a court in France will deliver a verdict in the trial of Jean-Marie Messier, above, the former chief executive of Vivendi, who is accused of providing misleading information (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); VERDICTS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); U S BANCORP (72%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (57%); AIRBUS SAS (56%); VIVENDI (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); USB (NYSE) (72%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); AMTD (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (57%); AMD (FRA) (57%); VIV (PAR) (55%); VIV (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (69%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



448 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: THE CAUCUS; President's Speech Especially Poignant On the King Holiday

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
President Obama's speech after the Tucson shootings earned plaudits for framing the nation's aspirations through the eyes of a fallen child.
''We see all of our children'' in the slain 9-year-old Christina-Taylor Green, he said. ''So curious, so trusting, so energetic, so full of magic.''
''I want America to be as good as she imagined it,'' Mr. Obama concluded. ''All of us - we should do everything we can to make sure this country lives up to our children's expectations.'' 
Those words take on special poignancy on this national holiday to commemorate the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Halfway through the term of the nation's first African-American president, there is little sign of improvement in the dramatically unequal life prospects of black children.
''We are not a post-racial society,'' said Donna Brazile, an African-American political strategist who managed Al Gore's 2000 presidential campaign. Nor, she added, has Mr. Obama's election or his attempts to steer away from race-specific policies and rhetoric dampened racial polarization.
''In fact, one could argue race relations have gotten worse,'' Ms. Brazile said. ''We had a moment where reconciliation was possible, and took a nasty turn.''
Trustful Attitudes
The advocacy group Children's Defense Fund last week released the results of a study compiled from focus groups and two nationwide surveys of African-Americans about their lives, as well as economic data on trends in opportunity for African-American children.
Attitudes among black youths themselves reflected the ''so trusting'' quality Mr. Obama identified in Christina. Two-thirds called these ''very good or O.K. times''; three-fourths said they could be successful by working hard and trying their best.
Among black adults, however, the numbers were less encouraging. ''They see poor and disenfranchised youth falling further and further behind,'' according to the study, by Hart Research Associates, a Democratic firm.
And that's little wonder in light of government economic statistics compiled by the fund.
Four in 10 black children are born into poverty. Fewer than one in 10 white children are. Fewer than four in 10 black children live with two parents, compared with three in four white children.
Black children are significantly more likely to die before their first birthday or to become obese. In school, black children are more likely to be held back, suspended, drop out of high school or end up in prison.
A report by Andrew Sum, director of Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University, documents how the Great Recession has exacerbated the lagging economic status of young black workers. Fully 40 percent, nearly twice the rate among whites, are what Mr. Sum called ''underutilized'' in the labor force - either unemployed or underemployed.
Moreover, the trend toward income inequality in America over all is most pronounced among blacks. The top 10 percent of black families, with average incomes of around $95,000, ''received as much income as the bottom 70 percent of young black families combined,'' Mr. Sum found.
Reasonable Caution
In the 1990s, Bill Clinton restored the Democratic Party's competitiveness by mostly avoiding the race-specific rhetoric and policies that had helped drive disaffected white voters toward the Republican opposition. The boom he presided over produced political and economic benefits for African-American families as well as well as whites.
As the first major-party African-American nominee, Mr. Obama in 2008 had an even greater imperative to cast his candidacy in nonracial terms.
As president, he has addressed the issue of race most conspicuously to tamp down political problems like the 2009 contretemps in Cambridge, Mass., involving the arrest of the Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates Jr., or the unjust firing of an Agriculture Department employee, Shirley Sherrod, both of whom are black.
Ms. Brazile called the president's caution understandable. Considering the anxiety over the economy throughout the country, she said, ''it would backfire'' for Mr. Obama to focus on race.
As it was, the declining fortunes of Democrats among white voters fueled Republican success in the midterm elections. With the 2012 election coming into view, the minority voters spurring the greatest partisan competition are the swelling population of Hispanics.
For Mr. Obama, the political consequences among African-Americans may be negligible. Paradoxically, the Democratic pollster Geoff Garin notes that blacks are more likely than whites to express satisfaction with conditions in the country.
That reflects their robust approval of Mr. Obama's presidency, as well as their assessment of the likeliest source of social and economic improvements.
In Mr. Garin's polling for the Children's Defense Fund, 57 percent of African-Americans named family members as most important to lifting the fortunes of black youth. Fourteen percent named churches or local community leaders. Just 4 percent pointed to government.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, at a memorial in Tucson, called for a country that ''lives up to our children's expectations.'' (POOL PHOTO BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); STATISTICS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); FOCUS GROUPS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); AL GORE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%) ARIZONA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



449 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: For California's Budget Examiner, an Ease With Diplomacy and Dollar Signs

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
SACRAMENTO -- If the California budget process sometimes resembles an extremely expensive food fight, with the name-calling, hair-pulling and that $25 billion deficit, Mac Taylor is the adult in the room.
Mr. Taylor -- a tall, gray-haired fellow with an amiable smile -- is California's legislative analyst, head of an independent, nonpartisan office that is charged with taking a hard look at what are often soft numbers in the state's chronically troubled budget.
Every January, armed with a staff of number crunchers, policy wonks and other arithmetic-minded assistants, Mr. Taylor studies the spending plans offered up by the governor and gives a steely assessment of what is realistic, and what is less so. 
As such, Mr. Taylor, who has spent more than three decades examining California's books, is considered one of the more reliable, least political voices in a state in which budgetary gimmickry is a time-honored tradition.
Not, of course, that he would say that.
''The term 'smoke and mirrors,' people will put different things in that category,'' he said during a recent interview in his office, which looks out on the California Capitol. ''For example, is a one-time sale of an asset smoke and mirrors? Well, no, it's not, if you can get the money you estimated.''
Mr. Taylor's job is one that involves equal parts diplomacy and dollar signs. Last Wednesday, for example, he presented his overview of the $85 billion general fund proposal made two days earlier by Gov. Jerry Brown, who has promised to give Californians the unvarnished truth about the state's financial mess.
Mr. Taylor, 57, who joined the legislative analyst's office during Mr. Brown's first go-round as governor in the late 1970s, mixed in a few compliments -- the budget seemed ''reasonable'' and a ''good starting point'' -- with more skeptical statements.
''There is,'' Mr. Taylor wrote, ''significant work ahead.''
All of which can earn either praise or scorn, or both, depending on how the state's politicians decide to spin it. Despite some of Mr. Taylor's supportive words for Mr. Brown, Republicans were generally happy that he had raised questions about the Democratic governor's plan to ask for five years of tax extensions.
''Assembly Republicans share the legislative analyst's concerns about 'significant risks' within the governor's budget plan,'' the Assembly's Republican leader, Connie Conway, said shortly after Mr. Taylor released his review. That sentiment was echoed a day later by another Republican leader, Assemblyman Jim Nielsen, who cited Mr. Taylor's support for proposed spending cuts.
The depth of California's financial dysfunction is well-documented. The state, which faces a $25.4 billion deficit over the next 18 months, has been late on passing a budget, due July 1, for several years, and suffered a record 100-day delay in 2010. The budget problems have damaged the state's reputation with investors and creditors alike.
Unlike the federal Congressional Budget Office, which does not offer its opinions on matters of policy, California's legislative analyst is required to make recommendations, something that sometimes puts the office at the heart of the debate. In 2007, the office's dour budget analysis was considered a major factor in killing a proposal, backed by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, to provide universal health coverage for all Californians.
For all that, Mr. Taylor -- who is technically part of the legislative staff -- plays down the influence of his office.
''Clearly either side can disagree with what you do, and that's fine,'' he said. ''They're not there to take our advice. We're here to provide them with good information and thoughtful recommendations, and they can do with it what they want.''
But California's continuing budget crisis -- the state has faced multibillion-dollar deficits for the last several years -- has certainly enhanced the profile of the legislative analyst's office. And the recession, which laid low the state's housing industry and drove unemployment over 12 percent, has led to what Mr. Taylor called ''constant budget mode for the last 2 1/2 years.''
Still, Mr. Taylor, who is married with three politics-averse children in their 20s -- ''I can't get any of them to take an economics course'' -- says he holds out hope that the Legislature will somehow find its way to passing a budget on time this year.
''And then,'' Mr. Taylor said, ''I can take off on July 1.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mac Taylor, California's legislative analyst, found a budget plan to be a ''good starting point,'' but also had skeptical statements. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICS (73%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011



450 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Challenging the Ills of Albany, With the Governor's Blessing

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and THOMAS KAPLAN; Michael Barbaro and David M. Halbfinger contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When television advertisements criticizing state government began to appear across New York last week, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo seemed anything but displeased. After all, the group paying for the advertisements, known as the Committee to Save New York, shared many of the governor's broad goals, like reining in runaway spending and capping local property taxes, and its Web site even included a link to video of his recent State of the State address.
''I encourage people to join that group,'' Mr. Cuomo said Thursday, after speaking to an audience in Jamestown, N.Y., about his plans for the year. ''I encourage people today to speak up.''
But he has more than a passing familiarity with the committee. It was organized at his urging, after a series of meetings last spring and summer at which the then-candidate pressed business leaders to take a more aggressive role in Albany. 
The committee is represented by Dan Klores Communications, a public relations and consulting firm closely tied to the new governor. And the first salvo of advertisements was broadcast just days before Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, began a road tour to highlight his budget agenda and encourage New Yorkers to join him.
For years, labor unions and other special interests have pooled millions of dollars to mount advertising and direct-mail campaigns on budget issues in New York, usually aimed at governors. A joint fund controlled by the state's powerful health care workers union and a hospital trade association has spent roughly $12 million a year on advertising campaigns to head off cuts to Medicaid spending, while the state teachers' union spends about $1.5 million a year to advocate for more school aid.
In allying with New York's newly active business lobby, Mr. Cuomo is borrowing a page from that playbook, and essentially organizing one set of special interests to offset the power of another.
Yet for Mr. Cuomo, who has pledged to seek radically stricter campaign finance laws and deeper financial disclosure in Albany, the effort poses quandaries. The new group is expected to spend at least $10 million in support of him, and, because it is organized as a nonprofit group, it is not required to disclose its donors or budget.
Meanwhile, some of those who have voluntarily disclosed their involvement in the group, like the Real Estate Board of New York and the state Business Council, collectively have billions of dollars at stake in the decisions that Mr. Cuomo will make in the coming year, on issues including insurance and banking regulations and rent control.
''It appears that they are coordinating with the governor and they are doing this to help the governor and maybe even at the request of the governor,'' said Blair Horner, legislative director for the New York Public Interest Research Group, a nonpartisan watchdog organization. ''We don't know everyone who's involved in this. But the ones who have crowed the loudest about it have critically important public policy issues in play this year.''
In a statement issued on Friday, a Cuomo spokesman, Richard Bamberger, said that the administration had consulted with committee members on ''relevant issues'' but suggested that those discussions were no different from the administration's discussions with other advocacy groups, including groups like the Public Interest Research Group and the Empire State Pride Agenda, a gay rights organization.
A spokesman for the committee, William Cunningham, said that there was no direct coordination between its operation and the Cuomo administration and that the board had not cleared its advertisements with the governor before running them. In fact, Mr. Cunningham said, there was little need to do so.
''We know what the governor's agenda is, and we don't need a lot of guidance,'' said Mr. Cunningham, who was an aide to Mr. Cuomo's father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. ''We've got a high-powered group that's hired us to make their voices heard.''
On Friday, after news media inquiries, the committee added to its Web site a list of 16 board members. The group includes Gary LaBarbera, president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of New York; Kevin S. Law, president of the Long Island Association; Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City; Rob Speyer, president of the real estate firm Tishman Speyer; and Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York.
Mr. Cunningham said that the group would file whatever lobbying disclosures were required by law, but that the issue of coordination was legally irrelevant.
''We're not a PAC, and there is no candidate and no campaign to coordinate with,'' he said.
The group echoes efforts by other elected chief executives to muster coalitions of supporters outside their traditional campaign committees, which typically report all donors and expenditures. In New Jersey last year, advisers to Gov. Chris Christie set up a nonprofit group called Reform Jersey Now to push his agenda with television advertising, mailers and automated calls.
In New York City, the administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has encouraged its allies to set up at least three groups to advocate for his policies over the last few years. One group, Education Reform Now, pushed the state to raise the cap on the number of charter schools in the city, and another, the Campaign for New York's Future, backed Mr. Bloomberg's plan to charge a fee on cars traveling in Midtown.
Those involved with the Committee to Save New York insist they are not trying to evade disclosure but to develop a more formal version of the loose alliances that already existed among the state's regional business associations. The committee's members would continue to lobby separately on narrower issues, they said, but would speak as one on the issue of lower taxes and reduced state spending. Should Mr. Cuomo break his pledges on those issues, they said, the group would not stand behind him.
''We have been working with economic development and business groups across the state for the past three years to try and forge a statewide strategy for economic growth,'' said Ms. Wylde, the president of the Partnership for New York City, a coalition of financial, real estate and other senior business leaders in the city.
Furthermore, Mr. Cuomo, who has about $4.2 million in his campaign account, is planning to raise millions more, through conventional channels, to mount his own advertising campaign should he come under fire from the unions. That money would be disclosed and reported like any other campaign contribution.
The Committee to Save New York's first advertisement is fairly gentle, but certainly flattering to Mr. Cuomo. It features a montage of New York landmarks like Niagara Falls and the Empire State Building and a shot of Mr. Cuomo delivering his State of the State address.
''Our government in Albany hasn't been as good as our people,'' a voice-over intones. ''It's not only broke, it's broken. But now we can change all that with a new governor who is ready to fix Albany.'' The advertisement goes on to urge the creation of jobs and economic growth.
For Ms. Wylde and others, the new group also represents the culmination of a long struggle to organize business leaders into a more effective counterweight to the labor unions that have historically driven fiscal policy in New York. Mr. Cuomo complained during the campaign that businesses had allowed labor to dominate the debate.
''Andrew Cuomo, first as a candidate and later as governor, has explained that Albany is captive to a small handful of special interests that controls the system,'' said Mr. Bamberger, the Cuomo spokesman, ''which requires that other sectors and people get involved if the government is to represent all the people and interests.''
Those skeptical of Mr. Cuomo's agenda, however, chafe at the implication that they -- and not the governor's well-financed allies -- should be branded ''special interests.''
''When did the real estate industry and Wall Street become the people who are going to save New York?'' said Billy Easton, executive director of the Alliance for Quality Education, which supports higher spending on schools. ''I don't think that anybody who's a voter in New York is going to buy into the idea that these guys are going to spend $10 million because they're worried about what's going to happen to average New Yorkers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kathryn Wylde, of the Partnership for New York City, is part of a state business lobby. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Rob Speyer, of the real estate firm Tishman Speyer, is also part of the committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RENT CONTROL (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); HEALTH CARE (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (66%); TEACHER UNIONS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); BANKING LAW (61%); PROPERTY TAX (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); JAMESTOWN, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



451 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Banker Gives Data On Taxes To Web Site

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA and JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- A former senior Swiss bank executive said on Monday that he had given the WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange, details of more than 2,000 prominent individuals and companies that he contends engaged in tax evasion and other possible criminal activity.
Rudolf M. Elmer, who ran the Caribbean operations of the Swiss bank Julius Baer for eight years until he was dismissed in 2002, refused to identify any of the individuals or companies, but he told reporters at a news conference that about 40 politicians and ''pillars of society'' were among them. 
He told The Observer newspaper over the weekend that those named in the documents come from ''the U.S., Britain, Germany, Austria and Asia -- from all over,'' and include ''business people, politicians, people who have made their living in the arts and multinational conglomerates -- from both sides of the Atlantic.''
Mr. Elmer handed two computer disks to Mr. Assange at the news conference, the first significant public event the WikiLeaks founder has held since he was arrested in London in early December after Swedish prosecutors sought to have him extradited on charges of sexual crimes there. He has denied the charges but was briefly jailed last year before bail was granted.
Wearing the same dark blue suit he has worn through his legal battles, Mr. Assange said that WikiLeaks would verify and release the information, including the names, in as little as two weeks.
He mentioned possible partnerships with financial news organizations and suggested he would consider turning the information over to Britain's Serious Fraud Office, which investigates financial corruption.
Mr. Elmer, who previously provided documents from his former employer to national tax authorities including the Internal Revenue Service in the United States, said he had turned to WikiLeaks to ''educate society'' about what he considers an unfair system that serves the rich and aids those who seek to launder money.
His recent offers to provide further data to universities and governments were spurned, he said, and he thought that the Swiss media had failed to cover the substance of his accusations.
''The man in the street needs to know how this system works,'' he said, referring to the offshore trusts that many ''high net worth individuals'' around the world use to evade taxes.
Bank Julius Baer, a 120-year-old institution that is usually noted for its intense privacy, said in a statement that it denied all wrongdoing and suggested that Mr. Elmer was pursuing a ''vendetta'' to ''discredit Julius Baer as well as clients in the eyes of the public.''
It accused him of using falsified documents, spreading baseless accusations and passing on ''unlawfully acquired, respectively retained, documents to the media, and later also to WikiLeaks.''
On Monday, Mr. Elmer declined to say how he had obtained the documents. He was detained for 30 days in 2005 in connection with allegations that he falsified documents, violated Swiss banking secrecy laws and tried to coerce his former employers by threatening to disclose information. He faces trial in Switzerland on Wednesday, said his Swiss lawyer, Ganden Tethong Blattner, for the latter two charges and faces a possible sentence of eight months' probation and a fine of $8,200.
WikiLeaks and Bank Julius Baer previously clashed in early 2008 when the antisecrecy organization published hundreds of documents pertaining to its offshore activities. The bank succeeded, briefly, in gaining a court order to shut down the WikiLeaks.org Web site. The injunction was subsequently overturned and the case was dropped.
The offshore banking industry has come under increasing pressure in recent years amid accusations that places like the Caribbean, with looser financial laws, allowed investors to avoid taxes and that some banks helped to create complex webs of companies and trust funds there to confuse tax authorities abroad.
In 2009, Bradley Birkenfeld, a former private banker for UBS, disclosed some of the industry's illegal tactics and forced the bank to turn over details of several thousand client accounts to the I.R.S. as part of a legal settlement. UBS agreed to pay a $780 million fine and admitted criminal wrongdoing.
Still, Mr. Assange said in London on Monday, financial institutions usually ''operate outside the rule of law'' because of their economic power. WikiLeaks itself has been ''economically censored,'' he said, by companies like Visa and MasterCard, which stopped processing donations to it late last year in response to its release of hundreds of thousands of classified United States documents on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and thousands of State Department cables.
WikiLeaks, perhaps signaling a new focus, has also said it would release information from an American bank, thought to be from a Bank of America executive's hard drive, early this year. But, Mr. Assange said, the site is not fully ''open for public business'' owing to the weight of the existing leaks it is struggling to process.
At the news conference, Mr. Assange declined to comment on the accusations of sexual abuse, brought by two women in Sweden, which have occupied much of his time in recent months. But he has strenuously denied any wrongdoing and has described the proceedings as ''a smear campaign'' meant to discredit him. He will appear in a British court for a comprehensive hearing on the matter on Feb. 7.
The United States is also thought to be investigating Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks, in connection with the release of the classified government and military information.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julian Assange, left, the founder of WikiLeaks, at a press conference in London on Monday with Rudolf M. Elmer, formerly of the Swiss Bank Julius Baer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN STANSALL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXTRADITION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); ARRESTS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (76%); MONEY LAUNDERING (72%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); AFFLUENT MARKET (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (53%)

COMPANY: JULIUS BAER GROUP LTD (85%)

TICKER: BAER (SWX) (85%)

PERSON: JULIAN ASSANGE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (56%); AUSTRIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



452 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Leading in 3-D TV, and Breaking Japan's Glass Ceiling

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- It is the Achilles' heel of 3-D television: the clunky glasses that viewers must wear to see images pop out in 3-D.
But Rieko Fukushima, a researcher at Toshiba, developed a way to do away with the glasses -- and at the same time is helping to crack Japan's glass ceiling for women.
''I'd be lying if I said it wasn't tough as a woman,'' said Mrs. Fukushima, 39, who led Toshiba's effort to develop the world's first ''naked eye'' 3-D TV. The project began nine years ago, when she had just returned from maternity leave.
''Sometimes, I'd see it in my colleagues' expressions,'' she said '' 'What? A woman? This age? In charge?' '' 
It is too early to know whether Toshiba can create a big consumer market for its new 3-D TVs, which it introduced in Japan in October and demonstrated this month at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.
But Mrs. Fukushima's breakthrough is a rare example of a company that has successfully tapped what some economists call Japan's most underused resource: women.
According to a 2009 government survey, women made up 8 percent of managerial jobs in Japan; in the United States, women hold 43 percent of supervisory positions, according to Catalyst, a nonprofit in New York.
Only 65 percent of college-educated Japanese women are employed, many of them in low-paid temp jobs, compared with about 80 percent in the United States -- ''a significant lost economic opportunity for the nation,'' Goldman Sachs said in a report in October. Over two-thirds of Japanese women leave the work force after their first child compared with just one-third of American women, the report said, often because of corporate and societal norms, as well as insufficient child care.
If Japan's 60 percent female employment rate in 2009 could match the 80 percent rate among men, the country would have 8.2 million more workers to replenish its rapidly aging population and raise its gross domestic product by as much as 15 percent, said the report, by Kathy Matsui, a managing director at Goldman Sachs Japan.
Mrs. Fukushima's success has therefore been welcomed as an inspirational tale of what can happen when things fall into place: a driven woman, a supportive family, and a company trying to diversify its work force.
''As a researcher, her ideas are cutting edge,'' said Yuzo Hirayama, the head researcher at Toshiba's TV research unit. ''Her communication and networking skills also never cease to astound me.''
It was in 2002 that Mrs. Fukushima, after maternity leave for her first child, helped set up a new research and development team to explore the possibilities of 3-D displays. At the time, there was skepticism at Toshiba over whether 3-D technology could be commercialized.
Still, Mrs. Fukushima saw the potential in an early prototype. From the start, she was convinced that the viewing glasses that accompanied most 3-D technology would have to go.
In conventional 3-D TV technology that uses glasses, images for each eye are rapidly displayed one after the other. Filters in dedicated glasses flash on and off in sync with the TV, so that the right eye sees one image, then the left eye sees the next image, creating the illusion of 3-D.
But Mrs. Fukushima proposed a new approach: developing an algorithm that draws on a Toshiba imaging processor called the Cell to display nine images for each frame. A sheet on the screen angles each image so that the right eye sees only images meant for the right eye, while the left eye sees only images meant for the left eye.
The biggest challenge was making a TV that displays 3-D images even when viewed from wider angles. Toshiba has not entirely solved that problem: its TVs work best when viewed from within a 40-degree zone.
Designing a mass-production setup to keep costs down also posed difficulties, something Mrs. Fukushima tackled by building a network of experts from around the company. But pressure mounted as the project progressed.
''When I was just a researcher, a setback would only reflect badly on myself. But now that I was leading a team, I had to make sure nobody lost faith,'' she said.
''I needed to think things through harder than anyone else,'' she said. ''I often felt overcome with worry, but I tried not to show that at meetings.''
A big break for the project came at a companywide technology fair in May, when an advanced prototype caught the eye of Norio Sasaki, Toshiba's president. After that came an effort involving hundreds of engineers that pushed production schedules forward as much as two years. ''2010 was supposed to be the year of the 3-D glasses,'' she said. ''We beat our rivals by going glasses-less.''
In Japan, a 20-inch model sells for 240,000 yen, or $2,880. Developing models in bigger sizes would be crucial in marketing the TVs globally, analysts say.
Mrs. Fukushima credits Toshiba with creating a hospitable environment for women. When she was on maternity leave, her supervisor e-mailed her with updates on the latest research and to assure her she ''had a place to come back to,'' she said.
Toshiba introduced measures in 2004 to help women balance work responsibilities with those at home, including more flexible working hours and a career track with a reduced workload. Now, the majority of women who take maternity leave return to their jobs, officials say.
Women have made more inroads into research positions than in other company divisions: though women number only 12 percent of Toshiba's 113,500 workers, they make up 20 percent of its main research and development staff. Toshiba still has a way to go in promoting them to advanced positions, however: just 360 of the company's 21,011 managers are women.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Fukushima's husband, whom she met in college, has been an important supporter. He encouraged Mrs. Fukushima, a chemistry major, to pursue a master's degree. Now they share household chores, with her husband, a university lecturer, in charge of making breakfast and sending their daughter to school, while Mrs. Fukushima handles dinner and bedtime. On a typical workday, Mrs. Fukushima works from about 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
It has not always gone smoothly for her. When she began looking for work in 1994, after the collapse of Japan's economic bubble, many companies told her they were not hiring women, she recalled. Others said they had no experience in hiring women with master's degrees.
But a Toshiba recruiter encouraged her to call, and after a short interview, she was hired along with another woman from the same university. ''There were companies that weren't even giving women interviews, but Toshiba hired two,'' Mrs. Fukushima said. ''I was elated.''
Now, she is held up as an example of a woman climbing Japan's corporate ladder. Nikkei Woman, a monthly magazine for businesswomen, named Mrs. Fukushima its Woman of the Year last month.
Amid her newfound fame, Mrs. Fukushima says she considers her 9-year-old daughter her biggest fan. ''She gets so excited to see me on TV,'' Mrs. Fukushima said. The girl talks of being a researcher herself one day.
''It makes me happy,'' Mrs. Fukushima said. ''But these days I am careful to remind her that Daddy has an important job, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rieko Fukushima, a researcher at Toshiba, led the company's effort to develop the world's first ''naked eye'' 3-D TV. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO TABUCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 A 3-D Toshiba TV at the Consumer Electronics Show. Instead of using glasses, the screen directs images to the appropriate eye. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE JACOBSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); MATERNITY LEAVE (89%); LABOR FORCE (86%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (71%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); AGING TRENDS (65%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (65%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (64%); TRADE SHOWS (52%); AGING (50%)

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (92%); 6502 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



453 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Despite Anxiety Over Leave at Apple, a Deep Bench of Leadership

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT and CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- For many people, Apple would not be Apple without Steven P. Jobs.
The sudden decision by the company's chief executive to take a medical leave for the third time in less than a decade raises anxieties about the leadership of the company he helped found more than three decades ago. It also puts the spotlight again on several senior executives who have been helping Mr. Jobs run the company, in particular Timothy D. Cook, the chief operating officer, who will take over day-to-day operations during Mr. Jobs's leave.
Whether Mr. Jobs returns, as he said he hoped to, or does not, as some investors fear, most experts believe that despite having a strong executive team, he will be hard to replace. 
''The company could not thrive if Steve didn't have an extremely talented team around him,'' said David B. Yoffie, a professor at Harvard Business School who has studied the technology industry for decades. ''But you can't replace Steve on some levels.''
Mr. Yoffie and others said Mr. Jobs's creativity, obsession with a product's design and function, and management style, as well as the force of his personality, were unusual, not only in Silicon Valley, but also in American business. They said that it would take several people with different skills to fill Mr. Jobs's shoes.
''The person who can keep the trains running on time is a scarce commodity, but not as rare as someone who can do breakthrough innovation,'' said Michael Useem, a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and the director of its Center for Leadership and Change Management.
Apple is widely believed to have both.
Mr. Jobs is leaving Mr. Cook in charge, just as he did during a five-month leave in 2009.
His performance during that time provides a heavy dose of reassurance for nervous investors. Mr. Cook, who joined Apple nearly 13 years ago and is otherwise responsible for the company's worldwide sales and operations, steered the company successfully the last time around. He kept the development of products like the iPhone 4 and the iPad on track, increased Macintosh computer sales and improved Apple's financial performance during an economic downturn.
While Apple shares dipped when Mr. Jobs announced his 2009 leave, they rallied strongly during Mr. Cook's tenure. Before joining Apple, Mr. Cook was vice president of corporate materials for Compaq, which was bought by Hewlett-Packard.
While Mr. Jobs has remained intimately involved in the company despite his health, Mr. Cook's responsibilities, and his position as apparent heir to Mr. Jobs, have strengthened.
''I was with Tim Cook last week in New York and I walked away from that thinking, 'This guy is more in charge and more in control of Apple than I think people understand,' '' said Tim Bajarin, an analyst with Creative Strategies who has followed Apple for nearly three decades. ''He clearly is the guy that if Apple needed additional leadership at the top, could actually carry it.''
Analysts said that like Mr. Jobs, Mr. Cook is obsessed with details and involved in minute elements of the business. ''Tim is obsessive about operational detail, and Steve is obsessive about product detail,'' said Gene Munster, an analyst with Piper Jaffray.
A handful of other executives, whose roles are complementary to that of Mr. Cook's, are also expected to see their profiles rise in Mr. Jobs's absence. They include Jonathan Ive, a London-born designer who is Apple's senior vice president for industrial design and close to Mr. Jobs. ''He's arguably the most important person there outside of Steve,'' said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Kaufman Brothers. ''He's responsible for the look and feel of the products, the way they interact with users.''
Philip W. Schiller, the company's marketing chief, is also expected to play a vital role. During Mr. Jobs's last leave, it was Mr. Schiller who took over as Apple's chief showman, taking the stage at events typically headlined by Mr. Jobs. Among other products, he unveiled the iPhone 3GS as well as an updated line of MacBook Pro laptops.
And Scott Forstall, senior vice president for iPhone software, is also believed to have an increasingly influential role as software becomes the distinguishing factor on phones and tablets. He has been behind Apple's push to unify the software that powers its mobile devices and its Macintosh computers.
Despite his recurring health problems, Mr. Jobs has remained involved in decisions big and small. Last year, for instance, he took center stage in the company's response to a public relations issue over problems with the iPhone 4's antenna and participated in discussions with Facebook over the release of Ping, Apple's social networking service inside iTunes.
One area where Mr. Jobs's influence will be hard to replace is at the negotiating table. Mr. Jobs has sought to sway many through the strength of his personality, for instance, playing a direct role in persuading media companies to make their content available on Apple's products. That role is increasingly important, as Apple seeks to become an even bigger power in media distribution. Mr. Jobs has some recent victories on that front; for instance, when the Beatles agreed to sell their music on iTunes. He was also able to persuade Disney and the News Corporation to make some television shows available for 99 cents through the Apple TV device.
''When Steve talks, people listen,'' Mr. Yoffie said. ''It would be hard for anyone in the industry to have a comparable level of influence.''
No one expects Apple to suffer in the short term, as the company has a long product cycle. But some raise questions as to what will happen over the long term if Mr. Jobs does not return.
''The problem here isn't the operations of Apple and their ability to execute and keep doing what they've been doing,'' Mr. Munster said. ''As far as what they've got in place, no doubt they can deliver, but as far as inspiring products you haven't thought up yet, that's what you're going to lose.''
''The problem, really at the core,'' he said, ''is that Steve Jobs's inspiration is irreplaceable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy D. Cook will again take over day-to-day operations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) (B1)
STEPPING IN: Timothy Cook, left, with Steven Jobs in July, kept the development of products like the iPad on track and improved Apple's financial performance when Mr. Jobs took a medical leave in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMBERLY WHITE/REUTERS)
PHILIP SCHILLER: Apple's marketing chief, he has stepped in for Mr. Jobs as chief showman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY AVELAR/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
JONATHAN IVE: Senior vice president for industrial design, he is responsible for the look and feel of products. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 SCOTT FORSTALL: Senior vice president for iPhone software, he is working to unify the company's software. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN ANSON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); SICK LEAVE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CHANGE MANAGEMENT (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (71%); TABLET COMPUTERS (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (85%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (93%); TIM COOK (89%); JONATHAN IVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



454 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: China's Currency Isn't Our Problem

BYLINE: By MARK WU. 
Mark Wu is an assistant professor at Harvard Law School.

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
WHEN President Hu Jintao of China visits Washington this week, many Americans will clamor for Beijing to stop manipulating its currency. We think we are being cheated on a huge scale, but we should reconsider. When it comes to lost jobs, the negative impact of China's currency, the renminbi, is less than one might think. Adjusting the exchange rate should not take priority over more vexing issues like North Korea, Iran and bilateral trade.
Since China agreed to a more flexible exchange rate last summer, its currency has appreciated a measly 3.6 percent against the dollar. This is because China, just like the United States, is also worried about jobs. In going slowly on appreciation, China is giving its exporters time to adjust, thereby limiting job losses and containing social unrest. 
Many Americans believe that the Chinese jobs being preserved by an artificially low currency come at the expense of American jobs. There are three common explanations behind this theory.
First, a stronger currency would increase the purchasing power of Chinese consumers and decrease the relative cost of American goods in China, spurring more Chinese to buy more American products. Second, a stronger currency increases the relative cost of Chinese goods in third markets, like Europe or Latin America. So if the renminbi appreciates, consumers in other countries will shy away from Chinese products in favor of American products. Third, a stronger currency would increase labor costs in China, making it less attractive for American companies to move jobs to China and thus keeping more people employed at home.
These claims, however, are more wishful thinking than actual truths. Consider the first idea, that a strengthened Chinese currency would increase the growth rate of American exports to China. From 2005 to 2008, the renminbi appreciated nearly 20 percent against the dollar. Yet, American exports to China over those three years grew at a slightly slower pace than in the previous three-year period when the renminbi did not appreciate at all (71 percent versus 89 percent).
This is because many of America's top exports to China are for capital-intensive goods like aerospace and power-generation equipment. Price is but one of several factors for these purchases, along with technology, quality and service. In addition, American companies in those industries are usually competing against European and Japanese firms rather than Chinese manufacturers. Ultimately, the dollar-euro and dollar-yen exchange rates may play more important roles in Chinese demand for American goods than the renminbi rate.
Second, I recently did an analysis of the top American exports to our 20 leading foreign markets, and found little evidence that an undervalued Chinese currency hurts American exports to third countries. This is mostly because there is little head-to-head competition between America and China. In less than 15 percent of top export products -- for example, network routers and solar panels -- are American and Chinese corporations competing directly against one another. By and large, we are going after entirely different product markets; we market things like airplanes and pharmaceuticals while China sells electronics and textiles.
Finally, it is unlikely that a stronger renminbi would bring many jobs back home. Instead, companies would most likely shift labor-intensive production to Vietnam, Indonesia and other low-wage countries. And in any case many high-skilled jobs will continue to flow overseas, as long as cheaper talent can be found in India and elsewhere. Only in a few industries, like biomedical devices, would a stronger Chinese currency combined with quality issues tempt American companies to keep more manufacturing at home.
Don't get me wrong: China's currency policies have led to unhealthy artificial distortions in the Chinese and world economy. They also fuel currency wars that threaten to undermine the cooperation needed to sustain a global recovery. And while the effect on American workers is far less than imagined, workers in the developing world stand much to gain from a faster renminbi appreciation.
We should discuss currency issues with China, but the exchange rate should not be at the top of the bilateral agenda. The issue is best left to the Group of 20, for this is as much the rest of the world's problem as it is ours. Resolving our economic troubles will depend much more on reinvesting in education, transportation and other government services, basic science and applied research than on forcing China to yield on its currency.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL FREIMUTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EURO (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); SOLAR ENERGY (67%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (60%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



455 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: President Hu Comes to Washington

 BODY:
There has been a lot of hype, for a long time, about a rising China. There is now no question about China's growing economic power or its military ambition. Over the past year, relations between Washington and Beijing have become increasingly tense and mistrustful.
When President Obama and President Hu Jintao of China meet at the White House on Wednesday, they must try to set a new course in which competition is carefully managed and a premium is placed on cooperation. That will require a commitment to sustained discussion of the many issues dividing them -- and an agreement to keep talking even in difficult times. 
For Mr. Obama, the top items include: China's currency manipulation; its enabling of North Korea and Iran; its abuse of human rights; and its recent challenge to American naval supremacy in the western Pacific.
For Mr. Hu, the top item is winning acknowledgment of its global stature. He will likely goad the president to get America's fiscal house in order to ensure the safety of China's large investment.
For a long time we weren't sure if President Obama had a China strategy. (Beyond muting criticism and hoping for cooperation.) We are increasingly reassured.
Officials acknowledge that China must have a bigger say in the world and believe there are common interests to build on -- but they are rightly not ceding anything. Mr. Obama has made clear that he won't stand by while China tries to bully its neighbors. The United States has embraced India and Southeast Asia more closely and shored up alliances with South Korea and Japan.
We know less about China's strategy. Its overconfidence is clear. It has been aggressively pressing its claims to disputed islands in the East and South China Seas. The military's rising influence is troubling.
For a country that claims to be a global power, it is still shirking its responsibilities. China is North Korea's main supplier of food and fuel, but it has resisted using that leverage to rein in Pyongyang's erratic and dangerous behavior. For a major player, it can also be remarkably petulant. Even as China pumps huge sums into sophisticated new weapons, it retaliated against American arms sales to Taiwan by suspending military talks with the United States for a year.
China has recently slowed energy investments in Iran and promised to support the southern Sudan referendum. American officials say it has begun to urge North Korea to tone down its belligerence. The Chinese military played host to Defense Secretary Robert Gates last week, although its leaders couldn't resist test flying their new stealth fighter during the visit.
What we don't know is if these are tactical concessions to ensure a good meeting with Mr. Obama, who offered the pomp China craves -- a state dinner and a 21-gun salute -- or a serious rethinking on Beijing's part.
Mr. Obama was far too deferential to Mr. Hu during their Beijing summit. He will need to do better this week. He will have to press Mr. Hu for a convincing pledge that China is committed to a peaceful rise, that it will engage in substantive talks about its military plans and will push North Korea hard to give up its nuclear program.
We also firmly believe that China will never be a great nation if it keeps censoring and imprisoning its people, including the pro-democracy activist Liu Xiaobo, who won the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize and has been unfairly jailed.
State dinners and 21-gun salutes are ephemeral. What will earn China respect as a major power is if it behaves responsibly. That must be Mr. Obama's fundamental message.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (54%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); ROBERT M GATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



456 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Trading Technology for Sales in China

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA, CHRISTOPHER DREW and STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
As China strives for leadership in the world's most advanced industries, it sees commercial jetliners -- planes that may someday challenge the best from Boeing and Airbus -- as a top prize.
And no Western company has been more aggressive in helping China pursue that dream than one of the aviation industry's biggest suppliers of jet engines and airplane technology, General Electric.
On Friday, during the visit of the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, to the United States, G.E. plans to sign a joint-venture agreement in commercial aviation that shows the tricky risk-and-reward calculations American corporations must increasingly make in their pursuit of lucrative markets in China.
G.E., in the partnership with a state-owned Chinese company, will be sharing its most sophisticated airplane electronics, including some of the same technology used in Boeing's new state-of-the-art 787 Dreamliner. 
For G.E., the pact is a chance to build upon an already well-established business in China, where the company has booming sales of jet engines, mainly to Chinese airlines that are now buying Boeing and Airbus planes. But doing business in China often requires Western multinationals like G.E. to share technology and trade secrets that might eventually enable Chinese companies to beat them at their own game -- by making the same products cheaper, if not better.
The other risk is that Western technologies could help China play catch-up in military aviation -- a concern underscored last week when the Chinese military demonstrated a prototype of its version of the Pentagon's stealth fighter, even though the plane could be a decade away from production.
The first customer for the G.E. joint venture will be the Chinese company building a new airliner, the C919, that is meant to be China's first entry in competition with Boeing and Airbus.
For the most part, Western aviation executives say the Chinese are simply too far behind in both civilian and military airplane technology to cause any real fears anytime soon -- although it does put pressure on Boeing and Airbus to continue to innovate and stay technologically ahead of China.
G.E., which said it had briefed the commerce, defense and state departments on details of the deal, acknowledges that pairing up with a Chinese firm is a delicate dance. But because the commercial aircraft market in China is expected to generate sales of more than $400 billion over the next two decades, it is not a party the company is willing to miss.
Eventually, G.E. executives say, China will become a potent player in the commercial jetliner market, and the company wants to be a major supplier to the emerging Chinese producers.
''They are committed for the long term and they have every probability of being successful,'' said John G. Rice, vice chairman of G.E. ''We can participate in that or sit on the sidelines. We're not about sitting on the sidelines.''
Mr. Rice also said that the Chinese joint venture partner -- the aerospace design and equipment manufacturer Aviation Industry Corporation of China, or Avic -- has supplied G.E. with some parts for jet engines for years. And he said he had personally known Avic's president for a decade.
''This venture is a strategic move that we made after some thought and consideration, with a company we know,'' Mr. Rice said. ''This isn't something we were forced into'' by the Chinese government.
G.E.'s new joint venture in Shanghai will focus on avionics -- the electronics for communications, navigation, cockpit displays and controls. G.E. will be contributing its leading-edge avionics technology -- a high-performance core computer system that operates as the avionics brain of Boeing's new 787 Dreamliner.
The joint venture has a ready customer in the C919's builder, the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, which is also a government-owned enterprise. The plane will be a single-aisle airliner, carrying up to 200 passengers, intended to compete with Boeing 737s and Airbus 320s. Although the Chinese hope to begin deliveries in 2016, analysts say the schedule may well slip.
With or without the C919, the Chinese market for commercial airliners is already huge and growing fast -- a big market for G.E. jet engines and other systems, as well as Boeing and Airbus planes. But if the C919 grabs any significant slice of that market, it would represent a new, expanded opportunity for G.E. The company has already been chosen to supply engines for the Chinese plane, through its long-standing partnership with Snecma of France. Though the world's largest producer of jet engines, G.E. has trailed other suppliers of avionics in overall sales, behind Honeywell, Rockwell Collins and Thales, all of whom competed for the C919 business.
Several other American companies have also been chosen as suppliers for the C919 aircraft, providing power generators, fuel tanks, hydraulic controls, brakes, tires and other gear. The roster of United States suppliers includes Rockwell Collins, Honeywell, Hamilton Sundstrand, Parker Aerospace, Eaton Corporation and Kidde Aerospace.
In fact, the corporate competition for contracts on the C919 became a ''frenzy,'' said Mark Howes, president of Honeywell Aerospace Asia Pacific. The Chinese government, he said, had made it clear to Western companies that they should be ''willing to share technology and know-how.''
But the G.E. avionics joint venture, analysts say, appears to be the deepest relationship yet and involves sharing the most confidential technology. And G.E.'s partner, Avic, also supplies China's military aircraft and weapons systems.
G.E. executives would not comment on the details of the joint venture. But a person involved in the talks said the 50-50 venture is for 50 years. G.E., the person said, is putting in technology and start-up capital of $200 million. Avic will initially contribute $700 million, the person said, including the cost of a new research and development lab already under construction.
To address American government security concerns, the joint venture in Shanghai will occupy separate offices and be equipped with computer systems that cannot pass data to computers in Avic's military division, G.E. executives say. And anyone working in the joint venture must wait two years before they can work on military projects at Avic, they added.
While Boeing and Airbus would probably rather not see their suppliers help the Chinese so much, both those companies must also constantly balance the risks and rewards of operating in China.
Boeing has subcontracted parts work to China for many years, and it is expanding a joint venture in Tianjin that makes parts with composite materials for several of its planes. And Airbus has built a factory that assembles A320s in the same city.
Boeing has ''opted to accept the reality of both partnering and competing with China,'' Boeing's chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., said in a speech last year.
Indeed, China's push into the commercial aircraft industry will probably increase exports from American aviation equipment manufacturers for years to come, according to industry analysts. Whether China succeeds or fails, the state-owned companies will keep investing, generating sales for the suppliers.
The real concern lies further head, according to a study of China's strategy included in a report published in November by a bipartisan Congressional advisory group, the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission.
The group concluded that China's huge state subsidies for its own industry, its requirements that foreign companies provide technology and know-how to gain access to the Chinese market, along with the close ties between its commercial and military aviation sectors all raise concerns and ''bear watching.''
The big aviation equipment makers say that, by now, they are experienced at grappling with matters of technology transfer in China. In Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Kent L. Statler, an executive vice president for commercial aviation at Rockwell Collins, observes that his employees often ask whether the company is trading its future for immediate sales in China.
''I think you're naive if you don't take into account that you could be standing up a future competitor,'' Mr. Statler said. Any company in a global business is in a race, he added, and staying ahead is the only defense. ''At the end of the day, our technologies and processes have to continue to improve,'' Mr. Statler said. ''It comes down to who can innovate faster.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A prototype of the C919 jet that China's state-owned aircraft maker hopes to begin delivering in 2016. G.E. has been chosen to supply the engines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Lin Zuoming, president of Aviation Industry Corporation of China, with Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief, at a 2009 event in Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B3) GRAPHIC: High Hopes for a Joint Venture: General Electric is planning a joint venture with the Aviation Industry Corporation of China, sharing technology for aircraft computers, communications, and cockpit displays from G.E.'s aviation systems division. The pact is a chance for G.E. to build on its sales of jet engines and services in China. The fast-growing Chinese market for commercial airliners is expected to generate estimated sales worth up to $400 billion over the next 20 years. (Source: General Electric) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRLINES (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); JOINT VENTURES (75%); CIVIL AVIATION (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); AVIONICS (71%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (73%); JEFFREY IMMELT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



457 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Where News Is Power, A Fight to Be Well-Armed

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Bobby Maldonado has the morning routine of a well-trained marathoner.
With the help of three alarm clocks, he gets up at 4 a.m., is showered and out the door in less than an hour, and scans his BlackBerry almost constantly as he makes his pretimed 12- to 13-minute trek to the Red Line Metro stop where he catches the first train downtown.
He knows exactly where to stand so he can get into the car that deposits him just steps from the escalator at the Farragut North station. ''It's an efficiency thing,'' he explained, ''so I don't get stuck behind people, so I hit the crosswalk at the right minute.''
Cutting diagonally across Farragut Square, he arrives at his office at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce on H Street just after 5:30 a.m. There, in a darkened cubicle, he scans the Internet for the day's news and condenses it into a two-page memo that he shoots off to Thomas J. Donohue, the Chamber's president, and other top executives before 8 a.m. He is never late. 
Mr. Maldonado, 26, is one of the dozens of young aides throughout the city who rise before dawn to pore over the news to synthesize it, summarize it and spin it, so their bosses start the day well-prepared. Washington is a city that traffics in information, and as these 20-something staff members are learning, who knows what -- and when they know it -- can be the difference between professional advancement and barely scraping by.
''Information is the capital market of Washington, so you know something that other people don't know and you know something earlier than other people know it is a formulation for increasing your status and power,'' said David Perlmutter, the director of the School of Journalism and Mass Communication at the University of Iowa. ''So any edge you can use to get stuff faster, earlier, better or exclusively is very important.''
For Mr. Maldonado, who said that ''the information wars are won before work,'' that means rising early to browse all of the major newspapers, new polling data, ideological Web sites and dozens of news alerts needed to equip his bosses with the best, most up-to-date nuggets.
''Our executives walk into meetings and they're doing battles, whether it's on health care or cap and trade, and information is power, and my job is to make sure they're armed with the most powerful information,'' he said. ''It's reading the 1,000 stories in the papers and Hill rags, and finding that one needle in the haystack that's going to matter.''
No hard data exists on how many people spend the hours before breakfast rounding up news and e-mailing clips and quick summaries, and everyone's routine varies slightly.
Andrew Bates, a media monitor in the White House communications office, is up by 4 a.m. to look over 30 to 40 Web sites and blogs, as well as watch the morning television news and talk shows, and send out relevant news clips to the top ranks of the Obama administration. He has even been known -- with the help of Google Translator -- to translate articles from other languages.
Mr. Bates could ''give anyone in this town a run for their money on 'Jeopardy!' '' Jen Psaki, the deputy White House communications director, said jokingly.
Mr. Bates, 24, said his early-morning search was intended to harvest ''something that's very strong, that advances an argument well, or anything that could be jeopardizing or damaging, like criticism.''
Over at the Treasury Department, Megan Leary, a financial economist for the markets room, and six other analysts are each assigned one day a week to get to work at roughly 5 a.m. There, they monitor overnight shifts in the markets and put together a morning briefing for the Treasury secretary.
''I think a lot of why the markets room is valuable is because it's very unfiltered,'' Ms. Leary said. ''It's not like we write something and a week later it goes to the secretary or president. They get it that day.''
Ms. Leary is becoming a familiar customer to the drivers of the cab company she calls the night before to set up her predawn rides. ''Sometimes I just get in a cab and I don't need to say where I'm going,'' she said. ''He just goes.''
At the Chamber, Mr. Maldonado's duties also include a morning phone call with Mr. Donohue, the president, who sometimes presses him for a more in-depth analysis on certain topics.
''I study three hours every day, and every now and then I go before the professor and answer questions,'' Mr. Maldonado said. ''I'm not a policy expert, but I'll always try to know two or three questions he might ask.''
Getting up early is nothing new, but the lightning speed of news on the Internet and the proliferation of outlets like Politico, which place a premium on ''winning'' the day, has made the job more demanding and pushed the mornings ever earlier.
''There's no news cycle anymore,'' Dr. Perlmutter said. ''You don't want to be coming into the office at 8 a.m., and everyone is saying, 'Oh, my God, can you believe what happened?' And you're going, 'What happened?' ''
Such a response is not likely to come from Mr. Bates, according to the White House communications director, Dan Pfeiffer, who said these jobs benefited employer and employee.
''Rapid response requires knowing that there is something that needs response,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said. ''For such a young guy, Andrew has a great ability to sniff out stories that need to be handled with dispatch. During our biggest fights, from health care to the Supreme Court confirmations, Andrew repeatedly spotted potential problems in the farthest reaches of the Internet before anyone else. That information was essential to our success.''
A Democratic National Committee spokeswoman, Brandi Hoffine, rises between 5 and 6 a.m. for what she affectionately calls ''Breakfast with Brandi''-- the time she begins sending out news articles she sees as favorable to the committee's agenda to her e-mail list of 500 or so reporters.
''We all work in environments where a 24-hour news cycle can very quickly become a 24-minute news cycle,'' Ms. Hoffine said. ''Being in a reporter's in-box first, even by a few minutes, can make a big difference.''
Most of those who work the predawn shift go on to put in a more-than-full day at the office, leaving in the evening like everyone else. The lack of sleep can make for a grind. But for Washington's young and ambitious, it also provides a welcome opportunity to learn a department or an agency from the ground up and can often be a way to fast-track a career. In the White House, for instance, Dag Vega, the director of broadcast media, and Amy Brundage and Reid Cherlin, both administration press officers, all cut their teeth trolling for meaty early-morning news clips.
Until recently, when he was promoted to assistant communications director for Speaker John A. Boehner's political office, Kevin Boland, 25, put together a 50-page national press briefing for Mr. Boehner and his House office. He recalled getting up around 5 a.m., and still in his pajamas, putting on some coffee, and reading Web sites and compiling his report from home. At 7 a.m. he would hit the ''send'' button on his computer, and walk over to the Capitol for the rest of his day.
''I found it helpful and valuable, and I have a much better appreciation for what the people in the office do,'' Mr. Boland said, joking: ''They at least have to know who I am if they want to junk me, or put me in the trash.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bobby Maldonado, an aide at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, scans the news constantly on his predawn commute. (A14)
 Bobby Maldonado has his morning routine down to a science. Efficiency and punctuality are key. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); JOURNALISM (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



458 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Lebanese Leader Delays Talks on New Government

BYLINE: By NADA BAKRI and MARLISE SIMONS; Nada Bakri reported from Beirut, and Marlise Simons from Paris. Anthony Shadid contributed reporting from Beirut.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- The Lebanese president on Monday postponed talks to form a new government as regional leaders convened in Syria to find a way out of one of Lebanon's worst crises in years.
On the same day, an international prosecutor issued the first indictments in the case that set off the political crisis: the investigation into the assassination of a former prime minister of Lebanon. No details were disclosed, not even the names of the accused or the number of people indicted so far in the murder of the former prime minister, Rafik Hariri, in 2005.
Although the indictments were sealed, the suspects are widely believed to include members of Hezbollah, the Shiite militant movement, which has strong links to Iran and Syria. 
It could be weeks before the details are made public; a pretrial judge on the tribunal first has to decide whether to endorse the charges, a process that could take a month or longer, said a spokesman at the court, which is based in The Hague and backed by the United Nations. Arrest warrants may then follow, the spokesman said.
The expectation that the prosecutor would seek indictments in the assassination of Mr. Hariri and 22 others led to the latest political turmoil in Lebanon. Hezbollah, which has denied any involvement in the attack and denounced the tribunal, had been urging Prime Minister Saad Hariri, Mr. Hariri's son, to end all cooperation with the tribunal, to denounce any indictments and to stop helping to finance the court. Lebanon contributes 49 percent of the court's budget. The court was created by the United Nations Security Council at Lebanon's request.
When Mr. Hariri refused Hezbollah's demands, the militant movement and its allies withdrew last week from the national unity government.
President Michel Suleiman's decision on Monday to postpone negotiations to form a new government appeared to signal the difficulties that Lebanon's politicians face in choosing a new prime minister. It also seemed to reflect a desire among Lebanese politicians for international mediation to succeed.
''We need to sort out our problems before we nominate a new prime minister,'' said the minister of economy and trade, Mohammad Safadi, a Sunni leader and a potential compromise candidate for prime minister. ''You can't move forward with such a big split in the country.''
Lebanon is often a battleground where other countries settle their disputes, and this crisis is no different. Hezbollah's patrons, Iran and Syria, have sought to influence the negotiations, as have Mr. Hariri's supporters, which include France, Saudi Arabia and the United States.
On Monday, Lebanon's Foreign Ministry summoned the United States ambassador, Maura Connelly, whom it criticized for ''interfering in Lebanon's internal affairs'' after she visited a lawmaker who was undecided about his choice for prime minister.
That visit soon became the butt of jokes on Lebanese television. The lawmaker, Nicola Fattoush, is a relatively minor politician; that he warranted a visit by the ambassador illustrated the perception that the next prime minister would not be chosen by Parliament, but by a half-dozen or so foreign embassies in Beirut.
Before the government fell, ending a period of relative calm, Saudi Arabia and Syria were trying to reach a deal over the tribunal and its possible indictments. Those talks fell through last week, for reasons that remain unclear. Hezbollah has accused the United States of scuttling the negotiations; others said that Syria was not able to deliver on what it had promised in the talks.
In Damascus, Syria, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and the emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, met on Monday with the Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in an attempt to defuse the Lebanese crisis.
Syria issued a statement after the meeting saying that the three leaders had stressed their commitment ''to find a solution to the crisis based on the Syrian-Saudi efforts.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); ARREST WARRANTS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); BUDGETS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: MICHEL SULEIMAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%) LEBANON (99%); SYRIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



459 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: DEALBOOK; After Years of Defending Wall Street Firms, a Transition to Policing Them

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
J. Bradley Bennett, over the last two decades, has defended financial advisers, brokerage firms and corporate chieftains accused of everything from insider trading to accounting fraud.
Now, he's switching sides.
On Jan. 3, Mr. Bennett became the top cop at Wall Street's self-policing organization, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra.
''Any attorney in my space would jump at this opportunity,'' said Mr. Bennett, 48, the new chief of the enforcement division. ''This is a very important time in the history of American capitalism.'' 
Finra is at a crossroads, too. During the financial crisis, critics say, the organization missed the forest for the trees, cracking down on small boiler rooms in Florida while ignoring big warning signs on Wall Street.
''They missed a lot of serious problems while picking on issues that are not important in the scheme of things,'' said Joseph Mays Jr., a former examiner at Finra's predecessor, who currently advises small broker-dealers on regulatory matters.
So Mr. Bennett must try to repair the regulator's reputation just when its authority may be expanding. Finra - formed in 2007 when the National Association of Securities Dealers merged with the New York Stock Exchange's regulatory arm - may soon be charged with overseeing tens of thousands of investment advisers, on top of the 600,000-plus brokers already under its purview. Finra is lobbying the Securities and Exchange Commission to get this power.
But the regulator's harshest critics contend it has not earned this added responsibility. At the height of the financial crisis in 2008, Finra filed 1,073 disciplinary actions, down from 1,204 two years before. Last year, Finra brought 1,310 cases, but levied $41 million in fines, roughly half what it collected in 2006.
Mr. Bennett's predecessor, Susan Merrill, the enforcement chief for about three years, defends Finra's record.
''It's unfair to evaluate an enforcement division solely by the number of cases,'' Ms. Merrill said. ''You have to judge the program on the cases they're bringing and not count up the numbers.''
The enforcement staff under Ms. Merrill brought several cases against Wall Street firms for their role in selling auction-rate securities, debt investments that imploded during the crisis. It settled with more than a dozen firms, including HSBC, which agreed in April to pay a $1.5 million fine and to repurchase more of the troubled securities from customers.
Mr. Bennett says Wall Street can expect his 300-person enforcement team to be tough but fair. He plans to aim at dubious private real estate deals sold to small investors and monitor compliance with money laundering prohibitions. With Goldman Sachs selling $1.5 billion of Facebook shares to its wealthy clients, Mr. Bennett also wants to keep tabs on firms that offer shares in private technology companies.
''I'm going to try to streamline the processes that may be bogging down important matters,'' said Mr. Bennett, who will direct Finra's investigations. ''A lot of things have been left undone that need to be dealt with.''
Mr. Bennett, a father of two teenage daughters who lives in suburban Virginia, began his legal career at the S.E.C. in the late 1980s, after graduating magna cum laude from the law school at Georgetown. He spent four years at the commission's enforcement division, where he prosecuted insider trading and accounting fraud. An imposing presence at 6-foot-5, Mr. Bennett said he was eager to take on any case that ended up in court.
''You don't ignore Brad when he stands up,'' said James Doty, Mr. Bennett's former colleague who last week was named chairman of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the nation's top accounting regulator. ''He has an expansive, exuberant personality. He is not a mouse.''
Mr. Bennett's experience as a regulator came in handy when he joined Baker Botts in 2001, after a nine-year stint at Miller, Cassidy, Larocca & Lewin. As the co-chairman of the white-collar and corporate investigations group at Baker Botts, Mr. Bennett often defended his clients on matters before the Justice Department and the S.E.C.
In one S.E.C. insider trading investigation, he defended Congressional staff members suspected of leaking confidential information about potential legislation to lobbyists and companies. Mr. Bennett declined to name the aides because the investigation closed without becoming public. He also helped lead an internal investigation into accounting fraud at Freddie Mac, the housing finance giant.
When the investment adviser Paul W. Eggers, the Treasury Department's general counsel during the Nixon administration, was charged with selling bogus investments, he turned to Mr. Bennett. Mr. Bennett took the case, but Mr. Eggers was convicted of mail and wire fraud.
Mr. Bennett was also Finra's preferred outside lawyer. Since 2003, he has dedicated a third of his practice to Finra. He notably represented the regulator during an S.E.C. investigation into problems at the American Stock Exchange, an affiliated company.
''He's a team player, and the Finra staff will react well to him,'' said Barry Goldsmith, a partner at the law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, who has known Mr. Bennett from their days together at the S.E.C. ''I think Brad will bring a lot of energy to the job.''
Mr. Bennett - an avid game hunter who had ducks mounted in his office at Baker Botts - warns that he will not go easy on the industry as he switches from defending financial firms to prosecuting them. In fact, he says he believes his experience with Wall Street will give him a unique perspective.
At Finra, Mr. Bennett will collect a paycheck close to that of other executives at the regulator, who typically earn around $700,000. His predecessor earned $1.28 million in 2009, according to filings.
''If anyone thinks I'll be an advocate for soft-touch enforcement, they are going to be disappointed,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''If someone stepped over the line, they're not going to get any sympathy from me.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: J. Bradley Bennett 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); AFFLUENT MARKET (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (95%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



460 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Too Little Water, and Then Too Much, in Australia

BYLINE: By AUBREY BELFORD

 BODY:
CARPENDALE, Australia -- The smashed remains of Kapernick's Bridge -- with its bent guardrails and a hanging concrete slab where road once was -- are as sure a sign as any that the Lockyer Valley's decade-long drought is finished.
Next door, at the vegetable farm of Steve Kluck, the same inland tsunami that last week smashed apart towns and killed more than a dozen people in the northeast Australian state of Queensland left a deep gouge in the earth covering nearly a hectare, or two acres. Water is now plentiful; soil, unfortunately, no longer is. 
The cost of rebuilding and future losses is hard to calculate, Mr. Kluck said, but will probably be hundreds of thousands of dollars -- still a pittance compared with the losses of some nearby farmers. And there is always the risk of more flooding as Australia's tropical wet season drags on.
''We're picking up all these sticks and crap up there, and she could all be bloody back there in a week,'' Mr. Kluck said. ''We can't give you a figure'' for losses, he said, ''but it's just going to be a pain in the ass for the next 10 years.''
Farmers like Mr. Kluck are among the worst hit in the multibillion-dollar economic toll of Australia's continuing flood crisis, which has affected a combined region of more than a million hectares in five states; in the worst-hit state, Queensland, flooding in regions with a land area more than double that of California has killed at least 28 people. Even as victims in southern Queensland regions cleaned up in the wake of receding waters over the weekend, fresh floods struck in other areas of the country; in the state of Victoria, homes were inundated and more than 3,500 people were forced to evacuate, The Associated Press reported.
Buffeted by a cycle of dispiriting dry followed by overwhelming wet, the farmers are experiencing a fate highlighting the vagaries of Australia's extreme weather. At the same time, it is also adding fuel to a continuing debate over the future of intensive agriculture on a continent drier than all the others save Antarctica.
''Oh, mate, it's going to hurt us financially,'' said Derek Schulz, who owns land downstream near the town of Grantham, which was largely destroyed in the flood. Where more than a week ago fields were ready for a fresh vegetable crop, there is now a plane of cracked mud and the scattered debris of crushed cars, tractors and torn homes.
''We're carrying a huge amount of debt, we're talking my wife and I carrying millions of dollars in debt. And to have a complete wipeout, that's gonna hurt us,'' he said.
Australian farming is a business of high expenditures and thin margins, and Mr. Schulz said he expected many from the town would give up. Insurance will not cover many losses, and government assistance, including disaster grants of up to $25,000 and low-interest loans of up to $250,000, is a fraction of what is required to cover losses and start anew. But Mr. Schulz said he would probably take on fresh debt and return to the land.
''I've got this little saying, 'I've got dirt under the fingernails.' And it's gonna be hard to get rid of that,'' he said.
While some farmers may leave the land because of the floods, the bigger threat in the longer term is still likely to be a lack of water, said Chris Cocklin, an environmental scientist who is the deputy vice chancellor of James Cook University in Queensland. Prior to the start of heavy rains late last year, a drought had gone on for more than a decade across the Murray-Darling basin, a massive irrigated river system in eastern Australia that is the country's most important agricultural area. In many areas, it would take years of significant rain to bring underground aquifers up to healthy levels, Mr. Cocklin said.
Mr. Cocklin warned that it was impossible to easily blame the latest floods on climate change. Rather, the immediate culprit is La Nina, a Pacific weather pattern that has caused havoc from Brazil to Sri Lanka. But he said it was indisputable that, as a result of climate change, ''these extremes are becoming more intensified'' -- meaning more severe, and longer, droughts.
As a result, Australia must consider a less water-intensive agricultural future, Mr. Cocklin said. ''People have to accept that the game's changed,'' he said, particularly in the case of water-hogging crops like rice and cotton.
''They're literally flooding the continent; you know, they're trying to copy monsoon Asia. You'd have to wonder if that's really a smart thing to be doing,'' he said.
In response to the long drought, the government authority responsible for the Murray-Darling released a proposal in October to drastically reduce water consumption by irrigators; some outraged farmers burned copies of the plan in protest.
Amid heavy floods at the start of this year, the National Farmers Federation called on the center-left minority Labor government of Prime Minister Julia Gillard to delay its water reform process. The government has rejected the calls.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Flood debris litters land farmed by Derek Schulz in Queensland, Australia. Mr. Schulz said he planned to start over.
 The vegetable farm of Steve Kluck, center, was wiped out by an inland tsunami. He estimated it would take 10 years to recover. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW QUILTY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); DROUGHT (77%); TSUNAMIS (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); WEATHER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (94%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ANTARCTICA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



461 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
FOREIGN ALLIES BRISTLE
At Taxation of Contractors
American and European allies in Afghanistan insist that taxing foreign contractors is an absurdity, because companies are spending military and other foreign aid money that, by United States law, ought to be tax exempt. Page A6
ISRAEL'S NEW FACTION
Israel's defense minister, Ehud Barak, broke away Monday from the left-leaning Labor Party he had led and formed a smaller centrist faction that will stay in the governing coalition under a new name. The surprise move shook up Israeli politics but was expected to have little impact on national policies. Page A4
STIFF FIGHT IN REMOTE DISTRICT 
Marines have been more aggressive in policing a remote district in the Helmand Province of Afghanistan since taking responsibility of the area from British troops in September, but this has resulted in heavy casualties. Page A6
National
AIDES PORE OVER NEWS
To Give Bosses a Head Start
Washington is a city that traffics in information, leading dozens of young aides throughout the nation's capital to rise before dawn to pore over the news to synthesize it, summarize it and spin it, so their bosses start the day well-prepared. Page A14
SUSPECT'S DRUG USE
Jared L. Loughner was a frequent user of the potent but legal drug Salvia, which federal drug officials warned could closely mimic psychosis. Page A16
TEACHERLESS CLASSROOMS
More than 7,000 students in Miami-Dade County Public Schools are in a program in which core subjects are taken using computers in a classroom with no teacher. The virtual classrooms were put in place last August as a result of Florida's Class Size Reduction Amendment, passed in 2002. The amendment limits the number of students allowed in classrooms, but not in virtual labs. PAGE A15
A SYMBOL OF WASTE
The enormous new $14 million fishing museum in Perry, Ga., has become shorthand in state political circles for wasteful spending. The state must make bond payments for the museum for the next 16 years, as cuts are being proposed to the state's college scholarship program, health care and the prison system. PAGE A14
New York
BUILDING IS LOST IN SHUFFLE
In Battle Over Renovation
Peter and Anthony Malkin, real estate developers up for one of the business's most prestigious awards for their renovation of a building on West 34th Street, are facing a lawsuit brought by another developer, Charles Cohen, whose company happens to own the building. The suit states that the Malkins' W&H Properties had failed to get permission for structural changes to the building as required by a lease dating to 1963. Page A18
Business
G.E. TO SHARE KNOW-HOW
In Effort to Cement Ties
This Friday, during the visit of the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, to the United States, G.E. plans to sign a joint-venture agreement in commercial aviation that shows the tricky risk-and-reward calculations American corporations must increasingly make in their pursuit of lucrative markets in China. Page B1
ONE WIKILEAKS SOURCE
A former senior Swiss bank executive, Rudolf M. Elmer, said that he had given the WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange, details of more than 2,000 prominent individuals and companies that he contends engaged in tax evasion and other possible criminal activity. Page B1
JAPAN'S UNDERUSED RESOURCE
The breakthrough of one female researcher at Toshiba is a rare example of a company that has successfully tapped what some economists call Japan's most underused resource: women. If Japan's 60 percent female employment rate in 2009 could match the 80 percent rate among men, the country could raise its gross domestic product by as much as 15 percent, according to a 2009 government survey. Page B1
FROM DEFENDING TO POLICING
After spending much of the last decade defending white-collar clients on matters before the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission, J. Bradley Bennett became the enforcement chief at Wall Street's self-policing organization, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra. Page B5
NEW FLEET FOR VIRGIN AIRLINES
Virgin Airlines signed an order that would give the carrier 60 new single-aisle A320 airplanes built by Airbus, the European Aircraft manufacturer. The order, which will be delivered starting in 2016, includes 30 of the A320neo, a new version of Airbus's best-selling airplane that will be equipped with a more fuel-efficient engine. Page B3
Arts
AN INFORMED BRIEFING
On the War on Terror
In ''The Longest War: The Enduring Conflict Between Al-Qaeda and America,'' the CNN national security analyst Peter L. Bergen provides a highly informed, wide-angled, single-volume briefing on the war on terror so far. The book details Al-Qaeda's highly bureaucratic organization, with bylaws dealing with things as varied as salary levels, furniture allowances and vacation schedule. Review by Michiko Kakutani. Page C1
A SIXTH GUGGENHEIM, MAYBE
The city of Helsinki is to announce that it has commissioned the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation to undertake a feasibility study of the possibility of a new Guggenheim Museum in Finland. The proposed site would give the Guggenheim six locations around the world. Page C1
JAMES TAKES ON CARTOONS
LeBron James of the N.B.A. will be taking his talents to the Internet in a new Web-based animated series, called ''The LeBrons,'' that will revisit some of his best-known off-the-court performances while featuring socially conscious messages like the value of staying in school or staying off drugs. Page C3
Sports
REGULAR SEASON ANOMALIES
Continue in the Playoffs
In a strange N.F.L. season, no anomaly stood out quite like this: one year after both top playoff seeds advanced to the Super Bowl, the top seeds were eliminated in their first game, and both sixth-seeded teams advanced to the conference championship games. Page B10
IN UNFAMILIAR TERRITORY
After losing to the New York Jets in the A.F.C. divisional round, the New England Patriots find themselves on unfamiliar ground: rebuilding while the rival Jets play in the A.F.C. championship game for the second straight season. Page B10
HENIN WINS OPENING MATCH
In her first official match in nearly seven months, seven-time Grand Slam singles champion Justine Henin began the Australian Open with a three-set victory over Sania Mirza. Henin injured her elbow at last year's Wimbledon, placing the former No. 1-ranked player's career in jeopardy. Page B12
Obituaries
REMMY ONGALA, 63
The Tanzanian songwriter, singer and bandleader was not afraid to sing about difficult issues, like the spread of AIDS, poverty, corruption, mortality and faith. He was a superstar in East Africa and reached European and American audiences in the 1980s and 1990s. Page B14
Science
METASTASIZED BREAST CANCER
Provides Bleak Outlook
The median life expectancy for patients with breast cancer that has metastasized, or spread to distant sites in the body, is just 26 months, and fewer than one in four survive for more than five years. Page D1
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A25
BOB HERBERT PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); CORE CURRICULUM (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); LITIGATION (65%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); PRISONS (50%); JOINT VENTURES (50%)

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (57%); HU JINTAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



462 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Heavy Doses of DNA Data, With Few Side Effects

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
When companies tried selling consumers the results of personal DNA tests, worried doctors and assorted health experts rushed to the public's rescue. What if the risk assessments were inaccurate or inconsistent? What if people misinterpreted the results and did something foolish? What if they were traumatized by learning they were at high risk for Alzheimer's or breast cancer or another disease?
The what-ifs prompted New York State to ban the direct sale of the tests to consumers. Members of Congress denounced the tests as ''snake oil,'' and the Food and Drug Administration has recently threatened the companies with federal oversight. Members of a national advisory commission concluded that personal DNA testing needed to be carefully supervised by experts like themselves.
But now, thanks to new research, there's a less hypothetical question to consider: What if the would-be guardians of the public underestimated the demand for their supervisory services? 
In two separate studies of genetic tests, researchers have found that people are not exactly desperate to be protected from information about their own bodies. Most people say they'll pay for genetic tests even if the predictions are sometimes wrong, and most people don't seem to be traumatized even when they receive bad news.
''Up until now there's been lots of speculation and what I'd call fear-mongering about the impact of these tests, but now we have data,'' says Dr. Eric Topol, the senior author of a report published last week in The New England Journal of Medicine. ''We saw no evidence of anxiety or distress induced by the tests.''
He and colleagues at the Scripps Translational Science Institute followed more than 2,000 people who had a genomewide scan by the Navigenics company. After providing saliva, they were given estimates of their genetic risk for more than 20 different conditions, including obesity, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, several forms of cancer, multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's. About six months after getting the test results, delivered in a 90-page report, the typical person's level of psychological anxiety was no higher than it had been before taking the test.
Although they were offered sessions, at no cost, with genetic counselors who could interpret the results and allay their anxieties, only 10 percent of the people bothered to take advantage of the opportunity. They apparently didn't feel overwhelmed by the information, and it didn't seem to cause much rash behavior, either.
In fact, the researchers were surprised to see how little effect it had. While about a quarter of the people discussed the results with their personal physicians, they generally did not change their diets or their exercise habits even when they'd been told these steps might lower some of their risks.
''We had theorized there would be an improvement in lifestyle, but we saw no sign whatsoever,'' Dr. Topol says. ''Instead of turning inward and becoming activists about their health, they turned to medical screening. They had a significant increase in the intent to have a screening test, like a colonoscopy if they were at higher risk for colon cancer.''
The people in the study chose on their own to pay for the tests -- about $225, a steep discount from the retail price at the time -- so they weren't necessarily representative of the general population. But in another study, published in Health Economics, researchers surveyed a representative sample of nearly 1,500 people and found most people willing to take a test even if didn't perfectly predict their risks for disease.
About 70 percent of the respondents were willing to take even an imperfect test for genetic risks of Alzheimer's, and more than three-quarters were willing to take such tests for arthritis, breast cancer and prostate cancer. Most people also said they'd be willing to spend money out of their own pocket for the test, typically somewhere between $300 and $600.
A minority of the respondents didn't want the tests even if they were free, and explained that they didn't want to live with the knowledge. But the rest attached much more value to the tests than have the experts who have been warning of the dangers.
''The medical field has been paternalistic about these tests,'' says Peter J. Neumann, the lead author of the study, who is director of the Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health at Tufts Medical Center. ''We've been saying that we shouldn't give people this information because it might be wrong or we might worry them or we can't do anything about it. But people tell us they want the information enough to pay for it.''
Why do experts differ from consumers on this issue? You could argue that the experts are better informed, but you could also argue that some of them are swayed by their own self-interest. Traditionally, people have had to go through a doctor to get a test, which could mean paying a fee to the physician as well as to a licensed genetic counselor. Buying tests directly from a company like Navigenics or 23andMe can cut out hundreds of dollars in fees to the middlemen.
To experts, the tests may seem unnecessary or wasteful when there's nothing doctors can do to prevent the disease. But consumers have other reasons to want the results. They may find even bad news preferable to the anxious limbo of uncertainty; they may consider an imprecise test better than nothing at all.
''We should recognize that consumers might reasonably want the information for nonmedical reasons,'' Dr. Neumann says. ''People value it for its own sake, and because they feel more in control of their lives.''
The traditional structure of American medicine gives control to doctors and to centralized regulators who make treatment decisions for everyone. These genetic tests represent a different philosophy, and point toward a possible future with people taking more charge of their own care and seeking treatments customized to their bodies. ''What we have today is population medicine at the 30,000-foot level,'' says Dr. Topol. ''These tests are the beginning of a new way to individualize medicine. One of the most immediate benefits is being able to use the genetic knowledge to tweak the kind of drugs people take, like choosing among statins and beta blockers to minimize side effects.''
That may be the self-empowered future, but for now residents of New York still can't be trusted to buy these tests directly. It's paternalism run amok, says Lee Silver, a professor of molecular biology and of public policy at Princeton, who is developing another variety of genetic test for consumers.
''It seems like a no-brainer,'' Dr. Silver says, ''that any competent adult should be free to purchase an analysis of their own DNA as long as they have been informed in advance of what could potentially be revealed in the analysis. You should have access to information about your own genome without a permission slip from your doctor.''
The paternalists argue that it's still unclear how to interpret some of these genetic tests -- and it is, of course. But if you ban these tests, or effectively eliminate them for most people by imposing expensive and time-consuming restrictions, how does that help the public? When it comes to knowing their own genetic risks, most people seem to prefer imperfect knowledge to perfect ignorance.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIKTOR KOEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DNA (92%); GENETIC SCREENING (91%); DNA TESTING (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (85%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); FORENSICS (78%); CANCER (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (77%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (76%); GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); OBESITY (73%); BREAST CANCER (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (71%); DIABETES (71%); ARTHRITIS (70%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (67%); WRITERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



463 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: The Long Ordeal of Landing a Short-Term Rental

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Eduardo Espirito Santo, a sociable graduate of the University of Richmond who comes from a prominent Portuguese banking family, would seem like a stable enough tenant. Even in a slow economy, he landed a summer internship at the Atlantic Council in Washington and this month started a second internship at a financial firm in New York City.
But these qualifications were not enough for a few Manhattan landlords he tried to rent from, partly because he did not want a one-year lease. So Mr. Espirito Santo had to jump through even more hoops than the typical Manhattan renter. 
Even in a city where residents constantly come and go, most landlords rarely agree to leases of less than a year. This has become a problem for recent graduates who are having trouble landing permanent jobs and do not want to commit for 12 months.
''Maybe 15 to 20 percent of the kids getting employed right now are getting internships that may lead to that full-time job,'' said Blair Brandt, whose referral company, the Next Step Realty, introduced Mr. Espirito Santo to Tony Caputo of Citi Habitats.
In December, Mr. Caputo took Mr. Espirito Santo to see some studio apartments with six-month leases. The first two apartments Mr. Espirito Santo liked demanded application fees so high that even the broker thought they bordered on predatory. One landlord demanded that Mr. Espirito Santo pay $300 a month for utilities in addition to a $500 credit check and application fee. Another wanted him to pay a $300 application fee and to use the temporary furniture company of his choice.
When Mr. Espirito Santo found a sunny, furnished, 15th-floor studio at London Terrace Towers, a complex of buildings on West 23rd Street where studios typically rent for $2,400 to $2,600 a month, he decided to go for it.
But since he would be subletting in a co-op, Mr. Espirito Santo was handed an 82-page application that required him to give detailed information about employment history, income, educational background and even ''name of organizations to which applicant belongs.'' He had to provide detailed accounts of his assets, liabilities, stocks, bonds and real estate holdings, along with information about his cash, money market funds and investments. He also had to get three personal references, including his most recent landlord in Washington, within four days.
''It was just a nightmare,'' he said. ''I've never had to do anything like this before.''
Susan Forrest-Reynolds, the Rutenberg Realty agent renting the apartment, said that this application was standard for co-op rentals and that it had become only slightly more demanding with the recession. Banks holding co-op mortgages now often require owners to notify them of sublets. She agreed that the paperwork was extensive, but added that a co-op rental could be cheaper than a standard rental because so few renters were willing to put up with such an extensive process.
''It's as if you were going to buy,'' Ms. Forrest-Reynolds said. ''It's crazy.''
She added that the flip side was that ''when you rent in a co-op, you get better bang for your buck.''
On Jan. 10, the building's co-op board approved Mr. Espirito Santo. Since moving in, he has been much happier.
''It was worth filling out the paperwork,'' he said. ''After work, I come home and relax.''
Less Wait for Listings
Some real estate trends from the boom are better left in the past, like brokers' showing up at open houses in Bentleys. But one sign of the good years has returned: apartments for sale in Manhattan are spending less time on the market. Jonathan J. Miller, president of the Miller Samuel appraisal company, said that in the last three months of 2010, apartments sat on average for 125 days, down from 204 days in the last quarter of 2009. The 10-year average was 133 days.
More Tea Leaves
In 2009, the number of newly licensed brokers and salespeople dropped to 11,432, from 21,134 the year before, according to the New York Department of State. But memories are short, and New Yorkers are getting back into real estate. In 2010, 12,634 New Yorkers became licensed brokers and agents.
From the Blogs
Dozens of comments on the brownstoner.com blog about a $1.495 million town house in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, showed a debate about which might be a bigger drag on the price: the kitchen with the ''screaming 1980s cabinets'' or the location '' 1/2 block from projects.'' ''Low income are not all bad and they too have to have a place to live,'' one person wrote, then referring to the man charged in the Tucson shooting, ''Was Jared Loughner from the 'projects'?''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 21, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article in some editions on Tuesday about the difficulties of getting a short-term lease misstated the number of buildings in London Terrace Towers on West 23rd Street. London Terrace Towers consists of four of the six buildings in the London Towers complex; it does not have ''half a dozen'' buildings itself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: London Terrace Towers, on West 23rd Street, where studios typically rent for $2,400 to $2,600 a month and where a newcomer to the city, Eduardo Spirito Santo, decided he wanted to live. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%); BONDS (65%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (60%)

COMPANY: ESPIRITO SANTO FINANCIAL GROUP SA (92%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (84%)

TICKER: ESF (LIS) (92%); EOS (LSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



464 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: For Chinese President's Visit, a Bolder Tack

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Hu Jintao of China is coming to town this week, and American officials say President Obama will be taking a far more assertive stance as he greets his biggest global economic rival.
On the pomp and ceremony front, the Obama administration appears to be deploying much of the White House's considerable protocol arsenal.
The Chinese president is getting not one, but two, dinners with Mr. Obama: first an intimate meal at the White House on Tuesday night, and then a grand state dinner on Wednesday. There will also be a lunch at the State Department hosted by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; a joint news conference with Mr. Obama; a joint appearance with the president before American and Chinese business leaders; and chats on Capitol Hill with Democratic and Republican leaders. 
But the White House has prepared for the visit in other ways in the past two weeks, dispatching several cabinet officials to publicly lay down challenges for Mr. Hu.
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gateshad a testy series of meetings in Beijing last week, telling reporters beforehand that the United States would counter China's military buildup in the Pacific by stepping up investments in weapons, jet fighters and technology.
Last Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said the United States would grant China more access to high-tech American products and expand trade and investment opportunities in the United States only if China opened its own domestic market to American products. Mr. Geithner said China also needed to take additional steps to allow its currency, the renminbi, to appreciate in value -- an issue a bipartisan group of senators vowed on Monday to address with legislation this year.
Then on Friday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton publicly criticized China's human rights record, citing the persecution of the pro-democracy group Charter 08 and the imprisonment of Liu Xiaobo, the political activist who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, but whose family was blocked from attending the prize ceremony in Oslo last month.
''The longer China represses freedoms,'' she said, ''the longer that Nobel Prize winners' empty chairs in Oslo will remain a symbol of a great nation's unrealized potential and unfulfilled promise.''
David Rothkopf, a national security expert who worked in the administration of President Bill Clinton, said: ''There's been this well-orchestrated and clearly well thought-out campaign, over the past two weeks, involving the secretary of state, Treasury, defense and commerce making strong statements regarding currency, the trade imbalance, human rights and China's military stance.'' He added, ''So you're welcoming the leader of the most important rival power in the world into the capital, and the way you pave his entrance into the city is laid with these four big thorny issues.''
The more assertive strategy comes after Mr. Obama was criticized as appearing to kowtow to China in his visit there in 2009, and then again for allowing Beijing to get the upper hand against the United States at the Group of 20 summit meeting in Seoul late last year.
In Seoul, instead of getting hammered on its currency, China managed to persuade Europe to join it in rejecting core elements of Mr. Obama's strategy of stimulating growth before focusing on deficit reduction. In addition, several major nations accused the Federal Reserve of deliberately devaluing the dollar in an effort to put the costs of America's competitive troubles on trading partners, rather than taking politically tough measures to rein in spending at home.
The result was that Mr. Obama appeared on the world stage as a leader of a country losing ground to a rising China.
Administration officials are determined that this will not happen during the visit to Washington this week. For one thing, the slight improvements in the American economy, coupled with a handful of political successes for Mr. Obama at home, will put the president in a stronger position, administration officials and some Asia analysts said.
More significant, they said, is that administration officials have now concluded that they can publicly challenge China on security and economic issues and still build a mature relationship.
Eswar Shanker Prasad, a former economist with the International Monetary Fund who now teaches trade policy at Cornell University, said China may have helped to strengthen the administration's hand. Recent Chinese moves to restrict access to its domestic economy have so frustrated American companies that corporate leaders are pressing the Obama administration to take a tougher stance.
''That's why Geithner was so blunt about saying China has to provide more market access,'' Mr. Prasad said. ''I think Geithner's speech set the tone very clearly about what they are trying to do. The language is very clear, and they are making the quid pro quo explicit.''
Mr. Hu is bringing a number of Chinese business leaders with him. Xinhua, the Chinese news agency, reported that U.S. and Chinese business leaders on Monday signed deals in Texas worth $600 million, the first of what are expected to be billions of trade deals tied to Mr. Hu's visit, including one with General Electric and a Chinese state-owned company for aviation equipment.
And the White House has set apart 45 minutes on Wednesday for the two leaders to meet with American and Chinese corporate leaders.
''There will be American C.E.O.'s who have large interests and investments in China,'' Tom Donilon, the national security adviser, said at a White House briefing for reporters on Friday. ''And I'm sure there will be discussion there about how American business can better do business in China, to talk about the access issues that are so very important and that Secretary Geithner talked about in his speech.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: White House workers were busy Monday preparing the South Lawn for this week's visit from President Hu Jintao of China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOE BIDEN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



465 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: New Fishing Museum Becomes a Symbol Of Waste in Georgia

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
PERRY, Ga. -- Every weekend, Michael Morris and his 2-year-old son, Jacob, visit this small town's enormous new $14 million fishing museum. They watch bream and bass swim in aquarium-size tanks. They play with an interactive model of a fishing boat and try to catch fish on a computer simulation using a rod and reel connected to a video screen.
And because the museum, the Go Fish Georgia Educational Center, is primarily financed by the state, their father-and-son outings cost only $5. 
''It's amazing,'' said Mr. Morris, a car salesman and recreational fisherman. ''When Jacob gets old enough, I hope this will be part of what makes him really get into fishing.''
But not all Georgia taxpayers are so thrilled. Even before the museum opened in October, ''Go Fish'' had become shorthand in state political circles for wasteful spending. Republicans and Democrats alike groaned over $1.6 million a year in bond payments and operating costs. And even supporters concede that the museum would never have gotten financed in 2007 if the legislature knew where the economy was headed.
''Hindsight is 20/20, but we should have seen this one coming,'' said State Senator George Hooks, an Americus Democrat on the budget-writing Appropriations Committee.
With a large state deficit looming, Go Fish has become a cautionary tale about the long-term ramifications of prerecession decisions. The state must make bond payments for the museum for the next 16 years. Meanwhile, cuts are being proposed to the state's college scholarship program, health care and the prison system.
''We simply can't afford it -- not in this economy,'' said Debbie Dooley, the Georgia coordinator for the Tea Party Patriots, who likened the museum to Alaska's infamous ''Bridge to Nowhere.'' ''When you want to talk about wasteful spending in Georgia, the first thing everyone brings up is Go Fish.''
And then there is the controversy over the museum's location -- in the home county of its main supporter, former Gov. Sonny Perdue, a Republican who left office this month after two terms.
Mr. Perdue said the site was chosen by independent consultants for its proximity to Interstate 75 and the state fair. But critics question whether a 13,000-person town more than 100 miles from both Atlanta and the Atlantic Coast will draw enough fishing tourists. Since it opened, the museum has drawn a small but steady crowd.
What no one disputes is that fishing is big business in Georgia, having an impact of $1.5 billion a year, state economists say. But for years, Georgia has lagged behind all neighboring states in fishing tourism. It ranks sixth in the nation in sending its fishermen to other states and 22nd in luring fishermen from elsewhere.
And before Go Fish, the largest fishing tournaments had snubbed Georgia, explaining that the state did not have boat ramps large enough to accommodate hundreds of fishermen.
Go Fish was primarily intended to increase tourism. Its main proponent, Mr. Perdue, had grown up cane-pole fishing with his grandfather on the Big Indian Creek in central Georgia. In addition to the museum, lawmakers approved $5 million to widen 18 ramps on lakes across the state.
By some measures, the investment is starting to pay off. The Forrest Wood Cup, nicknamed the Super Bowl of Bass Fishing, was held on Lake Lanier in August. And a hatchery at the museum has had success raising the type of record-size largemouth bass that trophy fishermen travel to catch.
Still the criticisms have persisted. Mr. Perdue's spokesman, Bert Brantley, said the program was a victim of unfortunate timing. ''It was a different time in 2007,'' Mr. Brantley said. ''It was the right decision at the time.''
For now, local school groups come by the busload for tours of aquariums displaying fish from Georgia's various regions -- from mountain streams to the Piedmont lakes to the coastal swamps. And supporters like Mr. Morris, who takes his son every week, say they will visit even more when the museum opens a real lake stocked with trout and bass this year.
''I don't like to fish, but I love to catch,'' Mr. Morris said. ''Who wants to go somewhere else for three hours and not catch anything? You come here, and you're guaranteed to go home with a fish.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A largemouth bass dominates the hatchery display at Go Fish Georgia Educational Center, a museum financed primarily by the state and approved when the economy was more robust.
 Georgia faces $1.6 million a year in bond payments and operating costs as it considers cuts to scholarships and health care. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FISHES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MODELING & SIMULATION (77%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (77%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (77%); SPORT FISHING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); PRISONS (50%)

PERSON: SONNY PERDUE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



466 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1772 words

HEADLINE: Al Qaeda And the U.S., Still Battling

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
THE LONGEST WAR
The Enduring Conflict Between America and Al-Qaeda
By Peter L. Bergen
Illustrated. 473 pages. Free Press. $28.
By now there are already dozens of books -- a few of them, groundbreaking works of reportage -- about Al Qaeda and 9/11, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the Bush and Obama administrations' management of national security.
What makes ''The Longest War,'' a new book by Peter L. Bergen, CNN's national security analyst, particularly useful is that it provides a succinct and compelling overview of these huge, complex subjects, drawing upon other journalists' pioneering work as well as the author's own expertise in terrorism and interviews with a broad spectrum of figures including leading counterterrorism officials, members of the Taliban, failed suicide bombers, family and friends of Osama bin Laden and top American military officers.
For readers interested in a highly informed, wide-angled, single-volume briefing on the war on terror so far, ''The Longest War'' is clearly that essential book. 
Mr. Bergen, who was part of the CNN team that interviewed Mr. bin Laden in 1997, and who has written two earlier books about the Al Qaeda leader, writes with enormous authority in these pages. He gives the reader an intimate understanding of how Al Qaeda operates on a day-to-day basis: he says it's a highly bureaucratic organization with bylaws dealing with everything from salary levels to furniture allowances to vacation schedules. And he creates a sharply observed portrait of Mr. bin Laden that amplifies those laid out by earlier writers like Lawrence Wright (''The Looming Tower''), Steve Coll (''The Bin Ladens'') and Jonathan Randal (''Osama: The Making of a Terrorist'').
Although some of Mr. Bergen's conclusions are bound to be controversial, the lucidity, knowledge and carefully reasoned logic of his arguments lend his assessments credibility and weight, even when he is challenging conventional wisdom.
On the matter of the dangers posed by Pakistan, Mr. Bergen says that a rapidly increasing population combined with high unemployment will play into the hands of militants, but adds that ''despite years of hysterical analysis by the commentariat in the United States, as the Obama administration came into office Pakistan was not poised for an Islamist takeover similar to what happened in the shah's Iran.''
''There was no major religious figure around which opposition to the Pakistani government could form,'' he writes, ''and the alliance of pro-Taliban parties known as the MMA, which had come to power in two of Pakistan's four provinces in 2002 and had implemented some window-dressing measures such as banning the sale of alcohol to non-Muslims, did nothing to govern effectively and in the election in 2008 they were annihilated in the polls. Ordinary Pakistanis were also increasingly fed up with the tactics used by the militants. Between 2005 and 2008, Pakistani support for suicide attacks dropped from 33 percent to 5 percent.''
In these pages Mr. Bergen also disputes parallels drawn between the experiences of America and the Soviet Union in Afghanistan (an argument invoked by the Pentagon under Donald H. Rumsfeld as a reason for keeping the number of United States troops there to a minimum). Mr. Bergen argues that there is no real analogy since ''the Soviets employed a scorched-earth policy,'' killing ''more than a million Afghans and forcing some five million more to flee the country,'' while more American troops have been needed -- and wanted by the Afghan people -- to secure the country from the Taliban and to ''midwife a more secure and prosperous country.''
Mr. Bergen also contends that ''the growing skepticism about Obama's chances for success in Afghanistan'' was ''largely based on some deep misreadings of both the country's history and the views of its people, which were often compounded by facile comparisons to the United States' misadventures'' in Vietnam and Iraq.
Skeptics who argue for a reduced American presence in Afghanistan are wrong, he contends, because ''the United States had tried this already'' twice: first, when it abandoned the country in the wake of the Soviet defeat there, creating a chaotic vacuum in the 1990s from which the Taliban emerged; and second, when the administration of George W. Bush got distracted with the war in Iraq and allowed the resurgence of the Taliban in Afghanistan.
The sections of this book dealing with 9/11, the war in Iraq and the prosecution of the war on terror retrace a lot of ground covered by the important work of other journalists, most notably Thomas Ricks, author of the book ''Fiasco''; Bob Woodward of The Washington Post; and Jane Mayer, Seymour M. Hersh and George Packer of The New Yorker. These chapters by Mr. Bergen provide an utterly devastating indictment of the Bush administration on all levels -- from its failure to heed warnings about a terrorist threat, to its determination to conduct the war in Afghanistan on the cheap, to its costly, unnecessary and thoroughly misguided invasion and occupation of Iraq.
Mr. Bergen gives us a sampling of the ominous threat reporting distributed to Bush officials in 2001 (not just the famous Aug. 6 brief titled ''Bin Laden Determined to Strike in U.S.'') and concludes that the problem ''was not a lack of information about Al Qaeda's intentions and capabilities, but the Bush administration's inability to comprehend that an attack by Al Qaeda on the United States was a real possibility.'' This failure, he says, came about partly because the thinking of the Bush White House was ''frozen in a cold war mind-set'' and partly because it saw Iraq as the No. 1 danger and ''bin Laden and Al Qaeda were politically and ideologically inconvenient to square'' with its worldview.
Both Osama bin Laden and George W. Bush, Mr. Bergen argues, made large strategic errors. Just as the Qaeda leader, in Mr. Bergen's view, misjudged the consequences of the 9/11 attacks -- which resulted in his terrorist organization's losing a secure base in Afghanistan -- so, he argues, did Mr. Bush's decision to go to war in Iraq have the perverse consequence of breathing ''new life into bin Laden's holy war.''
Echoing other experts like the former C.I.A. analyst Michael Scheuer, Mr. Bergen argues that the Iraq war represented ''the very type of imperial adventure that bin Laden had long predicted was the United States' long-term goal in the region.'' Moreover, he notes, it ''deposed the secular socialist Saddam, whom bin Laden had long despised,'' ignited ''Sunni and Shia fundamentalist fervor in Iraq'' and provoked ''a 'defensive' jihad that galvanized jihadi-minded Muslims around the world.''
For that matter, Mr. Bergen goes on, none of the war goals articulated by the Bush administration were achieved: ''An alliance between Saddam and Al Qaeda wasn't interrupted because there wasn't one, according to any number of studies including one by the Institute for Defense Analyses, the Pentagon's own internal think tank. There was no democratic domino effect around the Middle East; quite the opposite: the authoritarian regimes became more firmly entrenched.'' And the war did not pay for itself as Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz had predicted, but instead turned Iraq into ''a giant money sink for the American economy.''
Not only did the war in Iraq divert crucial resources from Afghanistan, but a series of errors made by the Bush administration, Mr. Bergen says, also created a ''perfect storm'' that gave birth to the bloody Iraqi insurgency and led to the very thing the White House said it wanted to prevent, ''a safe haven for Al Qaeda in the heart of the Arab world.''
Those errors, Mr. Bergen observes, included the decision to subject Iraq to a ''full-blown American occupation'' under the inept Coalition Provisional Authority; failing to provide sufficient troops to secure the country and establish order (which, in turn, led to huge weapons caches' going unprotected); mandating the removal of some 30,000 Baath party officials from their former positions (which deprived the country of experienced administrators); and dissolving the Iraqi military, thereby taking jobs from hundreds of thousands of young men in an economy already reeling from unemployment.
Although the Sunni Awakening (in which Sunni tribal leaders in Anbar Province began cooperating with American forces in the battle against insurgents) and the surge in United States forces eventually helped put Al Qaeda in Iraq on the defensive, Mr. Bergen warns that the terrorists could still regain a role in that country.
So what is Al Qaeda's future around the world? On one hand, Mr. Bergen writes that ''many thousands of underemployed, disaffected men in the Muslim world will continue to embrace bin Laden's doctrine of violent anti-Westernism'' -- he cites a 2008 survey showing that people in countries as diverse as Morocco, Indonesia, Jordan and Turkey expressed more ''confidence'' in the Qaeda leader than in President Bush by significant margins. On the other, he says that half a decade after 9/11 there emerged powerful new critics of Al Qaeda who had jihadist credentials themselves: Abdullah Anas, who had been a friend of Mr. bin Laden during the anti-Soviet jihad, denounced the 2005 suicide bombings in London as ''criminal acts,'' and Sheikh Salman al-Awdah, a leading Saudi religious scholar, personally rebuked Mr. bin Laden for killing innocent children, the elderly and women ''in the name of Al Qaeda.''
In the end, Mr. Bergen says, Al Qaeda has four ''crippling strategic weaknesses'' that will affect its long-term future: 1) its killing of many Muslims civilians -- acts forbidden by the Koran; 2) its failure to offer any positive vision of the future (''Afghanistan under the Taliban is not an attractive model of the future for most Muslims''); 3) the inability of jihadist militants to turn themselves ''into genuine mass political movements because their ideology prevents them from making the kind of real-world compromises that would allow them to engage in normal politics''; and 4) an ever growing list of enemies, including any Muslims who don't ''exactly share their ultra-fundamentalist worldview.''
''By the end of the second Bush term,'' Mr. Bergen writes near the end of this valuable book, ''it was clear that Al Qaeda and allied groups were losing the 'war of ideas' in the Islamic world, not because America was winning that war -- quite the contrary: most Muslims had a quite negative attitude toward the United States -- but because Muslims themselves had largely turned against the ideology of bin Ladenism.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
Peter L. Bergen (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT WALLACE)
 American and Afghan soldiers after a bomb was detonated in Kandahar Province in December. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); WRITERS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); RELIGION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

TITLE: Longest War, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



467 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Conflict on Afghan Efforts To Tax Foreign Contractors

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- To parse Ben Franklin, the only thing certain about life in Afghanistan is death. Taxes are another matter.
The Ministry of Finance says its efforts to change that have run into robust resistance from the very people lecturing it about the rule of law: American and European allies who do not want to see their own contractors taxed.
Those contractors respond that taxing them is an absurdity, because foreign companies are here spending military and other foreign aid money that, by United States law and plain common sense, ought to be tax exempt. 
''The international community should be happy we are implementing the rule of law,'' said Said Mubin Shah, deputy minister of finance for customs and revenue. ''We should work together to solve this problem and impose the rule of law, because a lot of foreign contractors are evading their taxes.''
The controversy is a complex one, but Finance Ministry officials bristle at suggestions that this is another example of efforts by the administration of President Hamid Karzai to provoke yet another confrontation with the United States government. United States officials are also locked in dispute with the Afghans over Mr. Karzai's order to disband all private security companies, and over what American officials see as efforts by his government to hobble anticorruption investigators.
The effort to tax foreign contractors was first reported by The Washington Post on Monday. The newspaper said that while prime contractors were explicitly exempted by law from taxation on aid contracts, the Afghan government was sending tax notices to subcontractors, many of them American and other foreign companies, claiming they were not covered by that provision.
However, Finance Minister Omar Zakhilwal on Monday disputed that in a brief interview, saying the government had made no tax demands on contractors or subcontractors working on aid or defense projects, who are exempt from taxes under a bilateral understanding called the Military Technical Agreement. However, he said, foreign contractors have received tax notices for income not covered by their military or aid contracts. ''We respect the M.T.A.,'' he said.
In a country where tax evasion, smuggling and bribery of customs officials practically amount to a national pastime, increasing Afghanistan's revenue base has been a major policy goal for the international community. Afghanistan's revenue totals only $1.8 billion annually, compared with $13 billion just in United States foreign and military aid in the current fiscal year.
Mr. Shah said that many contractors were using their tax-exempt status to work on non-aid business that should be taxed. He gave the example of fuel oil importers working for the military, who are allowed to bring fuel into Afghanistan without paying tax, but who in many cases sell a portion of their imports into the private market. He says officials know this happens because a far greater amount of fuel is consumed privately than is ever taxed. Mr. Shah conceded that outright smuggling of fuel was also a factor, but not the only one.
''They are evading billions of afghanis this way, but when we ask them for proof about how much they brought in, they won't say,'' he said. ''The military won't tell us how much either.'' One dollar is equivalent to about 43 afghanis, the local currency.
Furthermore, Mr. Shah said, when Finance Ministry tax inspectors have approached foreign contractors at their offices here, demanding to see their books, they have been turned away at gunpoint and, in some cases, beaten. He declined to provide specifics of such attacks, nor would he name any of the foreign contractors the ministry believes are tax evaders.
Mr. Shah said that his department's own advisers, who he said include representatives from the United States Treasury Department and the United States Agency for International Development as well as the World Bank, have been encouraging the ministry to increase its revenues, and in some areas it has been able to do that.
The problem goes beyond trying to tax military contractors for their private business, however. The Afghan government considers certain subcontractors, on all but military projects covered by the Military Technical Agreement, to be subject to income tax on the profits they make in Afghanistan, and have notified them to this effect, according to Ahmad Shah Zamanzai, the director general for revenue in the Ministry of Finance.
''This applies only to subcontractors on other entities outside of ISAF,'' Mr. Zamanzai said, referring to the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force. ''Afghan subcontractors are not exempted. They have to pay taxes on their profits, so why should a foreign company not have to pay taxes? If it would pay taxes for that work in the United States, we say they should pay tax in the first country where they have the earnings.'' He said such tax demands had recently been sent to ''a few tens'' of foreign companies.
An American official, speaking anonymously because of diplomatic delicacies, confirmed that American and Afghan officials disagreed on whether subcontractors were subject to taxes in Afghanistan, but was unwilling to comment further.
''It is a little issue,'' Mr. Zamanzai said. ''And it is very complicated. We are having a lot of meetings about it and we are working on it.''
Stan Soloway, president of the Professional Services Council, a trade group based in Arlington, Va., that represents companies doing business for the American government and has many members active in Afghanistan, said it was an issue that needed to be sorted out.
''The U.S. government position on subcontractors is that they are by derivation not taxable,'' he said. ''At the same time there's a plethora of agreements, diplomatic, military, status of forces, statutory prohibitions on paying taxes to foreign entities. The key point is it is a growing problem that is crying out for clarity and consistency.''
Normally, American companies would not object to taxation by a foreign government -- they would just be able to deduct that tax from their United States tax bill. If the United States government says that taxes should not be paid, then such deductions might be disallowed, he said.
''You can't put the companies in a position where their tax status is unclear,'' Mr. Soloway said, ''especially in situations where the amounts are potentially very large.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CORRUPTION (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (69%); SMUGGLING (69%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (65%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



468 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Euro Slips Against Dollar, And Futures Lose Ground

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The euro fell on Monday, ending a five-day rally against the dollar, and Spanish bonds dropped as the region's ministers debated a bailout plan. United States stock futures declined abroad after Apple said that its chief executive, Steve Jobs, was taking a medical leave of absence.
Futures on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, of which Apple is the second-biggest member, lost 0.3 percent. 
The Shanghai Composite index tumbled 3 percent, leading Asian shares lower, on concern that China's anti-inflation measures would curb growth. The MSCI Emerging Markets index fell 0.4 percent. Markets in the United States were closed for Martin Luther King's Birthday.
European finance ministers met in Brussels on Monday and discussed ways to increase the financing capacity of the European Financial Stability Facility. They also addressed ways to broaden its role to allow it to buy bonds or extend credit to countries, perhaps to help in future bank restructuring.
''There's plenty of reasons to be circumspect on the euro after the rally last week,'' said Jeremy Stretch, executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London.
The Nasdaq 100 index futures expiring in March sank 1.3 percent in electronic trading. Apple accounts for about 21 percent of the Nasdaq 100, a gauge of the largest companies that trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The index closed last week at its highest level since February 2001. Apple shares tumbled 6.2 percent in Germany after the shares closed at a record $348.48 last week in New York.
Apple said its chief operating officer, Timothy D. Cook, would be responsible for the company's day-to-day operations, with Mr. Jobs, Apple's co-founder, continuing as chief. Mr. Jobs took a nearly six-month break to have a liver transplant in 2009.
''Apple shares will obviously be getting hit, as shareholders rightfully command a premium for a C.E.O. like Steve Jobs,'' said David Lutz, managing director at Stifel Nicolaus in Baltimore. ''Any sell-off will be used as a buying opportunity, as Steve Jobs has high confidence in Tim Cook, and the two have worked closely defining Apple's strategy and vision. Last time Jobs had to take time, that proved a huge buying opportunity for the stock.''
Apple, as well as companies including Citigroup and Goldman Sachs, are scheduled to release earnings this week.
Most Canadian stocks fell, led by energy producers, as an Alaska pipeline prepared to restart and Chinese stocks dropped the most in two months. The S&P/TSX Composite index slipped 0.2 percent.
The euro was down 0.7 percent to $1.3289 at 4:27 p.m. in New York. The euro weakened versus all but two of its most-traded counterparts, sliding 0.9 percent against the yen. The dollar index, which tracks the currency against those of six trading partners, advanced 0.3 percent, rising for the first time in six days.
Spain's 10-year bonds decreased as the government halted auctions on Jan. 20 in favor of selling debt through banks.
The cost of credit-default swaps, or insuring debt, sold by Europe's so-called peripheral nations rose, ending four days of declines. The Euro Stoxx 50 was down 9.77 points, or 0.33 percent, to 2,910.63. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto led mining companies lower. BP climbed 0.2 percent in London, and OAO Rosneft rallied 5.2 percent in Russia after the oil companies agreed to swap equity stakes as part of a drive to extract billions of barrels of Arctic petroleum.
Britain's FTSE 100 closed down 16.37 points, or 0.3 percent, and France's CAC 40 dropped 7.87 points, or 0.2 percent. In Germany, the DAX ended the day 2.36 points, or less than 0.1 percent, higher.
Oil fell as much as 0.8 percent to $90.83 a barrel as the operators of a pipeline from Alaska prepared to restore flows to the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); FUTURES (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (63%); SICK LEAVE (57%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (87%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (82%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (87%); CM (TSX) (82%); CM (NYSE) (82%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (87%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (87%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (87%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (87%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (87%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (89%); TIM COOK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ALASKA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



469 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: At Sharpton's King Day Forum, a Focus on Gun Violence

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Of the many events on Monday honoring the memory of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., the gathering held by the Rev. Al Sharpton in Harlem was one with a wide audience and a narrow focus: the toll of gun violence, from a parking lot in Tucson to the streets of New York.
Senator Charles E. Schumer said that no constitutional amendment was sacrosanct and that ''there's nothing wrong in putting reasonable limits on guns.'' 
Alluding to the concern over the shooting of Representative Gabrielle Giffords and 18 other people this month in Tucson, State Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman said, ''Sometimes it takes something big and dramatic to get people's attention.''
Former Mayor David N. Dinkins remarked, ''It is absolutely ridiculous that any idiot can get a gun and kill people.''
But it was the host of the gathering who brought the message about gun control, wishful as it was, closest to home.
''Our grandmothers are afraid to go to the corner store,'' Mr. Sharpton said. ''That might not be highfalutin philosophical for my academician friends, but that's real life.''
About 200 people packed the storefront on West 145th Street known as the House of Justice, where Mr. Sharpton holds court every Saturday, delivering sermons much like the one he delivered on Monday, about violence, social inequalities and economic struggles. When there were no more chairs, people stood along the sides of the room. When the room was full, they convened on the sidewalk, their faces pressed against the door.
It was one of dozens of gatherings marking Dr. King's birthday and probably not the only one to have the issue of gun violence as a theme. Mr. Sharpton's event has become a tradition, though, and a required pit stop in Democratic circles, in part because it has functioned as a reliable barometer on the issues and the people of importance to black voters.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was greeted by boos, which he did not acknowledge. The crowd quieted when Mr. Bloomberg, who has campaigned for more gun control and even sent investigators to other states to uncover illegal gun sales, stepped to the microphone and began delivering his prepared remarks, though the booing returned when he said that President Obama considered New York City a model in public education reform. Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, on the other hand, was received by applause. She spoke of the rampage in Tucson, which left six people dead, and the anonymous people victimized by guns every day.
''We have to take this moment, and we need to come together, and we need to begin to have a political discourse in this country, where we can recognize our differences but move this country forward,'' Ms. Gillibrand said.
Representative Charles B. Rangel got the loudest response of all when he issued a call for action, saying: ''Why don't you help me form a group of mothers whose sons murdered the sons and daughters of other mothers? It ain't no white folks down South killing our boys.''
Dignitaries spoke from behind a lectern on the stage and audience members spoke from a microphone on the floor, lining up for several hours to tell their stories. One young man challenged legislators to ''tell us what banks are funding the gun trade so we the people will pull our money out of those banks.''
A mother urged other parents to search their sons' closets, warning, ''Good boys shoot people too.''
Joann Soto, whose only child, Londell Byrd, 17, was shot and killed last month outside his home in the Bronx, said, ''I am one of those parents who worked two jobs to make sure my son got the education he deserved, and what did I get in return?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand with the Rev. Al Sharpton at a forum on Monday in Harlem, calling for public unity and civility. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); 2011 TUCSON SHOOTING (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); RETAILERS (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); EDUCATION REFORM (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (91%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (89%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (76%); CHARLES B RANGEL (57%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011



470 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Gay Parents Are Thriving in South, Census Says

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- Being gay in this Southern city was once a lonely existence. Most people kept their sexuality to themselves, and they were reminded of the dangers of being openly gay when a gay church was bombed in the 1980s. These days, there are eight churches that openly welcome gay worshipers. One even caters to couples with children.
The changes may seem surprising for a city where churches that have long condemned homosexuality remain a powerful force. But as demographers sift through recent data releases from the Census Bureau, they have found that Jacksonville is home to one of the biggest populations of gay parents in the country.
In addition, the data show, child rearing among same-sex couples is more common in the South than in any other region of the country, according to Gary Gates, a demographer at the University of California, Los Angeles. Gay couples in Southern states like Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas are more likely to be raising children than their counterparts on the West Coast, in New York and in New England. 
The pattern, identified by Mr. Gates, is also notable because the families in this region defy the stereotype of a mainstream gay America that is white, affluent, urban and living in the Northeast or on the West Coast.
''We're starting to see that the gay community is very diverse,'' said Bob Witeck, chief executive of Witeck-Combs Communications, which helped market the census to gay people. ''We're not all rich white guys.''
Black or Latino gay couples are twice as likely as whites to be raising children, according to Mr. Gates, who used data from a Census Bureau sampling known as the American Community Survey. They are also more likely than their white counterparts to be struggling economically.
Experts offer theories for the pattern. A large number of gay couples, possibly a majority, entered into their current relationship after first having children with partners in heterosexual relationships, Mr. Gates said. That seemed to be the case for many blacks and Latinos in Jacksonville, for whom church disapproval weighed heavily.
''People grew up in church, so a lot of us lived in shame,'' said Darlene Maffett, 43, a Jacksonville resident, who had two children in eight years of marriage before coming out in 2002. ''What did we do? We wandered around lost. We married men, and then couldn't understand why every night we had a headache.''
Moreover, gay men who have children do so an average of three years earlier than heterosexual men, census data shows, Mr. Gates said. At the same time, there are fewer white women of childbearing age nationally, according to demographers, while the number of minority women of childbearing age is expanding.
Jacksonville was a magnet for Ms. Maffett even before she moved here. While its gay residents remained largely hidden, it had a gay-friendly church. In 2003, she spent her Sundays driving 90 minutes each way to attend from the town where she worked as a school bus driver.
Ms. Maffett appreciated the safety of the church in Jacksonville. Her father was a Baptist preacher, and her former husband was a member of the Church of Christ, so she knew how unwelcoming some churches could be for gays. Even so, she felt little connection to the gay congregation in Jacksonville -- mostly white, male and childless.
''The pastors were all white guys,'' said Ms. Maffett, who is black. ''They were nice to us, but we weren't really feeling that they knew how to cater to kids.''
Then she met Valerie Williams, a customer service worker with a sunny personality and a booming voice. Ms. Williams, 33, had been part of the city's gay community for years, and when the first African-American, gay-friendly church opened in 2007, she thought it needed to go one step further.
''People were looking to do stuff with their kids, and they had no place to go,'' she said.
So last summer, Ms. Williams became pastor of St. Luke's Community Church, one of the oldest gay-friendly churches in the city, and immediately set up a youth program. Attendance by the mixed-race congregation swelled to more than 90 from 25 in just a few months.
''All of a sudden you started seeing all of these women coming out,'' Ms. Maffett said. ''All of them had children.''
In 2009, the Census Bureau estimated that there were 581,000 same-sex couples in the United States, Mr. Gates said; the bureau does not count gay singles.
About a third of lesbians are parents, and a fifth of gay men are. Advocacy groups argue that their children are some of society's most vulnerable, with fewer legal protections and less health insurance than children of heterosexual parents.
Even so, their ranks have been mostly left out of national policy debates, because the Census Bureau did not conduct its first preliminary count of same-sex couples until 1990. This year, the bureau will count married same-sex partners for the first time.
''We don't know a lot about this group,'' Mr. Gates said. ''Their story has not been told.''
About 32 percent of gay couples in Jacksonville are raising children, Mr. Gates said, citing the 2009 Census data, second only to San Antonio, where the rate is about 34 percent.
Some gay parents here say that family life can be complicated. Cynthia, the mother of a talkative 9-year-old, can be herself at her daughter's cheerleading practice, because it is far from their home. But at her daughter's school, she tells no one that she is gay, because her partner, Monique, teaches there.
Their daughter, they said, ends up with a mixed message at school.
''We tell her, 'Be honest, don't lie, but keep this in the closet,' '' said Monique, who asked that the couple's last names not be used to protect her privacy at work, ''It gets confusing for her.''
Ms. Williams confronts those troubles directly with a program called Youth Power Hour, a kind of group counseling session for children of gay parents. This month, the group of about 20 young people discussed their problems after a free spaghetti dinner cooked by one of the adult moderators.
''This girl at school is always bullying me,'' said a 9-year-old named Diantra.
Ms. Williams responded, her voice filling the room: ''Remember what we said? Tell an adult.''
Cynthia's daughter, also part of the group, said the sense of community it provided helped her.
''It feels good to be around people who don't just have moms and dads,'' she said, pulling her braids nervously. ''I like it because I'm not alone anymore.''
Married same-sex parents face legal hurdles. Florida does not recognize same-sex marriage, and its domestic partnership recognition, while growing, is an uneven patchwork, and still leaves many spouses uninsured.
Even when employers agree to cover domestic partners, those couples pay higher taxes, because without federal recognition of their status, health coverage is considered income and is taxable. Until recently, Florida was one of a handful of states that expressly prohibited adoption by gay couples.
But money is often a more immediate problem.
Ty Francis, a bank customer-service worker here with a sharp sense of humor, supports six children together with her partner, Rosalyn Cooley, a health care worker.
''I'm one check away from being on welfare,'' Ms. Francis said.
But that kind of financial difficulty does not dampen enthusiasm for coaxing along acceptance in this conservative city of more than 800,000 people. A recent billboard supporting gay and lesbian youth drew no public scorn or boycotts, and gay pride parades have been held for several years.
Ms. Williams compares the community's efforts to the struggles of the civil rights movement.
''Slowly but surely, all this will pass,'' she said. ''I truly believe that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jacksonville, Fla., is home to Latisha Bines, far right, Misty Gray, at far end, and their family. (A1)
Reginald Maffett, 14, at services at St. Luke's Community Church, which he attends with his mother and her partner.
Valerie Williams, pastor of St. Luke's, runs a program called the Youth Power Hour for children of gay parents.
 Ty Francis, left, and Rosalyn Cooley, center, are raising Ms. Cooley's son Tyshaun, 5, right, and five other children. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARAH BETH GLICKSTEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (94%); CENSUS (91%); GAY PARENTING (90%); PARENTING (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); RELIGION (77%); FAMILY (76%); MARRIAGE (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); WEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



471 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Poverty and Recovery

 BODY:
In 2008, the first year of the Great Recession, the number of Americans living in poverty rose by 1.7 million to nearly 47.5 million. While hugely painful, that rise wasn't surprising given the unraveling economy. What is surprising is that recent census data show that those poverty numbers held steady in 2009, even though job loss worsened significantly that year.
Clearly, the sheer scale of poverty -- 15.7 percent of the country's population -- is unacceptable. But to keep millions more Americans from falling into poverty during a deep recession is a genuine accomplishment that holds a vital lesson: the safety net, fortified by stimulus, staved off an even more damaging crisis. 
Congress should take a good look at those numbers, and consider that lesson carefully, before it commits to any more slashing and burning.
The latest poverty figures are from the census ''alternative'' data, developed in the 1990s to count income and expenses that the ''official'' data omit. For example, the official measure counts only cash income to gauge poverty (defined as $21,756 for a family of four in 2009). The alternative figures cited above, which closely follow criteria from the National Academy of Sciences, include noncash federal benefits, like food stamps (and set the poverty line at $24,522 for a family of four). That gives a truer picture of a family's economic status.
What analysts have found is that the antipoverty effect of government intervention in 2009 was profound. Calculations by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning research group, show that specific stimulus provisions -- including expanded federal jobless benefits, new and improved tax credits for workers and bolstered food stamps -- kept 4.5 million people out of poverty in 2009. Only Social Security and the earned income credit did more to fight poverty.
The results are likely to be roughly similar in 2010 because most of the 2009 law was continued last year. The portents going forward are not good.
Federal aid is being scaled back, even though growth is not yet robust enough to make a sizable dent in unemployment. Late last year, Republicans blocked the extension of a successful stimulus program that had created 250,000 subsidized jobs for young people and low-income parents. They claimed the stimulus was an expensive failure, even as they pressed to renew the high-end Bush tax cuts. As part of the tax-cut deal, President Obama and Congress agreed to extend federal jobless benefits in 2011, but the checks will be $25 less a week than under the stimulus. That reduction could push an estimated 175,000 more people into poverty in 2011. The deal also included a one-year payroll tax cut that will benefit most workers, but it is less helpful to the lowest-income workers than a now-expired tax break in the stimulus.
With 14.5 million people still out of work, and more than 6 million of them jobless for more than six months, reducing federal help now will almost ensure more poverty later. That would impose an even higher cost on the economy and budget because ever poorer households cannot spend and consume.
We know it goes against the prevailing rhetoric to argue that more and better government policies are still needed to repair the economy. It is also unpopular to argue that programs that have succeeded for decades in reducing poverty, like Social Security, need to be preserved even as they are retooled for the 21st century. To do otherwise is to deny the evidence.
President Obama must explain to the American people that the country needs to continue relief and recovery efforts, especially programs to create jobs. Without that, tens of millions of Americans stuck in poverty will have little hope of climbing out -- and many more could join their ranks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CENSUS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); DISMISSALS (71%); LIBERALISM (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



472 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: In Wreckage Of Lost Jobs, Lost Power

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Alone among the world's economic powers, the United States is suffering through a deep jobs slump that can't be explained by the rest of the economy's performance.
The gross domestic product here -- the total value of all goods and services -- has recovered from the recession better than in Britain, Germany, Japan or Russia. Yet a greatly shrunken group of American workers, working harder and more efficiently, is producing these goods and services.
The unemployment rate is higher in this country than in Britain or Russia and much higher than in Germany or Japan, according to a study of worldwide job markets that Gallup will release on Wednesday. The American jobless rate is also higher than China's, Gallup found. The European countries with worse unemployment than the United States tend to be those still mired in crisis, like Greece, Ireland and Spain. 
Economists are now engaged in a spirited debate, much of it conducted on popularblogslikeMarginal Revolution, about the causes of the American jobs slump. Lawrence Katz, a Harvard labor economist, calls the full picture ''genuinely puzzling.''
That the financial crisis originated here, and was so severe here, surely plays some role. The United States had a bigger housing bubble than most other countries, leaving a large group of idle construction workers who can't easily switch industries. Many businesses, meanwhile, are reluctant to commit to hiring workers out of a fear that heavily indebted households won't spend much in coming years.
But beyond these immediate causes, the basic structure of the American economy also seems to be an important factor. This jobless recovery, after all, is the third straight recovery since 1991 to begin with months and months of little job growth.
Why? One obvious possibility is the balance of power between employers and employees.
Relative to the situation in most other countries -- or in this country for most of the last century -- American employers operate with few restraints. Unions have withered, at least in the private sector, and courts have grown friendlier to business. Many companies can now come much closer to setting the terms of their relationship with employees, letting them go when they become a drag on profits and relying on remaining workers or temporary ones when business picks up.
Just consider the main measure of corporate health: profits. In Canada, Japan and most of Europe, corporate profits have still not recovered to precrisis levels. In the United States, profits have more than recovered, rising 12 percent since late 2007.
For corporate America, the Great Recession is over. For the American work force, it's not.
Unfortunately, fixing the job market will take years. Even if job growth accelerated to the rapid pace of the late 1990s and remained there, the unemployment rate would not fall below 6 percent (which some economists consider full employment) until 2016. We could now be in only the first half of the longest stretch of high unemployment since World War II.
The best way to put people back to work is to lift economic growth. For Washington, lifting growth will first mean avoiding the mistakes of 2010, when the Fed, the White House and some members of Congress prematurely assumed that a solid recovery was under way. The risk this year is that they will start reducing the budget deficit immediately by cutting federal programs, rather than having the cuts take effect in future years.
Policy makers could also help the unemployed by spreading economic pain more broadly among the population. I realize this idea may not sound so good at first. Who wants pain to spread? But the fact is that this downturn has concentrated its effects on a relatively narrow group of Americans.
In Germany and Canada, some companies and workers have averted layoffs by agreeing to cut everyone's hours and, thus, pay. In this country, average wages for the employed have risen faster than inflation since 2007, which is highly unusual for a downturn. Yet unemployment remains terribly high, and almost half of the unemployed have been out of work for at least six months. These are the people bearing the brunt of the downturn.
Germany's job-sharing program -- known as ''Kurzarbeit,'' or short work -- has won praise from both conservative and liberal economists. Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, has offered a bill that would encourage similar programs. So far, though, the White House has not pursued it aggressively. Perhaps Gene Sperling, the new director of the National Economic Council, can put it back on the agenda.
Restoring some balance to the relationship between employers and employees will be more difficult. One problem is that too many labor unions, like the auto industry's, have been poorly run, hurting companies and, ultimately, workers. Of course, many other companies -- AT&T, General Electric, Southwest Airlines -- have thrived with unionized workers, and study after study has shown that unions usually do benefit workers. As one bumper sticker says, ''Unions: The folks who brought you the weekend.''
Today, unions are clearly playing on an uneven field. Companies pay minimal penalties for illegally trying to bar unions and have become expert at doing so, legally and otherwise. For all their shortcomings, unions remain many workers' best hope for some bargaining power.
The list of promising solutions to the jobs slump can go on and on. Reforming the disability insurance system so it does not encourage long-term joblessness would help. ''Once people enter the system,'' as Mr. Katz of Harvard says, ''they basically never come back.'' Improving high schools and colleges -- reclaiming the global lead in education -- would help even more. Remember, the jobless rate for college graduates is only 4.8 percent, and some highly skilled jobs continue to go unfilled.
The jobs slump has become too severe to disappear anytime soon. It will be part of the American economy and American politics for years to come. But there is no reason to treat it as a problem that's immune from solutions. For starters, it would be worth figuring out what other countries are doing right.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: University students at a job fair in Tokyo on Saturday. The United States' unemployment rate is much higher than Japan's. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B10) CHARTS: A Recovery, Except for Jobs: The United States economy has recovered faster than those of other industrialized countries, and corporate profits have, too. But many people remain out of work.
MAP: AVERAGE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 2009-10 (Sources: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
Haver
Stephen Gordon of Laval University, Canada
 Gallup) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); GREECE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



473 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Friends of the Court?

 BODY:
The Roberts court is hearing a larger share of cases about economic activities that matter to big business than the Rehnquist court before it. A recent study done by scholars for The Times documents that, compared with other Supreme Courts since 1953, this one is ''significantly more likely to produce a conservative decision'' in those cases. 
One reason for that, beyond the court's conservative tilt, may be that big business is increasingly bringing in big guns to argue their cases: former lawyers in the Justice Department's Office of the Solicitor General. So far this term, former Solicitors General Gregory Garre, Theodore Olson and Seth Waxman have argued at the court for business clients.
Former solicitors general used to be more likely to become professors, judges or other kinds of public servants. Now they are more likely to build corporate practices. With the exception of Justice Elena Kagan and one other, every former solicitor general for the past 15 years leads a law firm group representing business clients.
Of the 11 cases on the court's January list for oral arguments, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce filed briefs in seven. Last term, the chamber supported the winning side in 13 of 16 cases where it took part. As Adam Liptak reported in The Times, the group attributes those results to the quality of their advocates. The biggest victory was in the Citizens United case, argued by Mr. Olson.
At this level, quality includes intricate knowledge of the court's rulings and the ability to shape arguments. Being a solicitor general certainly gives them that. Still, justices need to ask themselves whether they may unconsciously -- and unfairly -- defer to former solicitors general. When Mr. Olson recently argued before the court on a case about whether medical residents should be required to pay Social Security taxes, he slyly tweaked Justice Sonia Sotomayor and got an affectionate laugh all around.
There is a special relationship between the solicitor general's office and the court. In addition to being the president's chief courtroom lawyer, the solicitor general is the court's counselor. The court regularly asks the solicitor general for guidance in cases where the government isn't a party, with the solicitor general expected to advocate for the interests of the United States. When former solicitors general are in private practice, all of that must be put firmly aside.
On Wednesday, the court will hear arguments in a case about drug pricing, in which Lisa Blatt, a former assistant to the solicitor general, represents Astra USA, a drug maker. The company contends a health-care provider has no grounds for suing it for exceeding Medicaid price limits. Other important business cases are on the docket with former solicitors general and assistants involved. If they make their cases, they deserve to win. But they shouldn't be given any advantage because of their former jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); DRUG PRICES (63%); HEALTH CARE (62%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); SOCIAL SECURITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (58%); ELENA KAGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



474 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SHIFTS FOCUS TO PRESS CHINESE TO OPEN MARKETS

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A year ago, the fight over how China's cheap currency was hurting American companies in marketplaces at home and abroad was shaping up to be the epic battle between the world's biggest power and its biggest economic rival.
But when President Hu Jintao walks into the Eisenhower Executive Office Building with President Obama on Wednesday to face a group of 18 American and Chinese business leaders, much of the clash will be about a new economic battlefield -- inside China itself.
A series of trade restrictions imposed by the Chinese government within China, including administrative controls, requirements to transfer sophisticated technology, state subsidies to favored domestic companies and so-called indigenous laws meant to favor homegrown businesses, have angered many American manufacturing and high-tech companies, which are rapidly finding themselves cut out of the world's fastest growing market.
The result is that the two countries have to resolve a wider range of economic tensions, including what American multinational corporations see as a deteriorating environment for investing and making money in what has become the world's second largest economy. 
So it is no longer just a fight over cheap Chinese textile, electronic and toy imports. China won that battle years ago. Now the question -- reminiscent of trade tensions with Japan in the 1980s -- is whether General Electric and Microsoft and other American companies that dearly want to expand into China's rapidly expanding markets will find themselves beaten at their own game by Chinese companies, backed by the Chinese government, ''competing at every point in the technology spectrum,'' said Eswar Shanker Prasad, a former economist with the International Monetary Fund who now teaches trade policy at Cornell University.
Myron Brilliant, a senior vice president at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said, ''It's no longer just a question of Nucor complaining about dumping,'' referring to the American steel manufacturing company that has accused China of selling steel fasteners and bolts at below-market prices abroad. ''Those concerns may not be going away, but the noise out there now has additional voices. The voices are not just low-cost products coming here; the competition is about China's marketplace.''
For Mr. Obama, the shift gives him stronger backing from American businesses for a tougher approach to China when he sits down with Mr. Hu. The Chinese president arrived in Washington on Tuesday afternoon for two full days of high-level meetings that began with a private dinner at the White House on Tuesday evening.
''The business community has historically been the bastion of support for the U.S.-China relationship,'' said Michael Froman, the deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs, in an interview. ''Now that support is more qualified.'' Mr. Froman said that Mr. Obama and American officials would be ''underscoring the importance of addressing these issues if we're going to have a level playing field.''
American companies have always had a love-hate relationship with China -- with the manufacturing companies in the South and steel companies in the Midwest urging the government to take tough action against China, and advanced manufacturers and high-tech companies that want access to the Chinese marketplace pressing for a more conciliatory tone.
Now, both sides seem to want the administration to get tough. Last year, Jeffrey R. Immelt of G.E. complained to a meeting of business leaders in Rome that it was getting harder for foreign companies to do business in China, and he expressed a growing irritation that China was protecting its own national companies at the detriment of American companies.
Google last March moved its Chinese service out of mainland China to avoid censorship rules. The American Chamber of Commerce in Beijing has also complained that is members are facing an increasingly difficult regulatory environment.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner signaled the Obama administration's stance in a speech last week, when he said that the United States would grant China more access to high-tech American products and expand trade and investment opportunities within the United States only if China opened its own domestic market to American products. That push for market access, administration officials said, will be at the top of Mr. Obama's agenda with Mr. Hu, both during their one-on-one meetings and when they meet with the business leaders.
American multinational corporations, experts said, are hurt by Chinese regulations that openly favor Chinese companies over foreign ones for government contracts. These rules, which are intended to stimulate technological innovation in China, have the effect of cutting American and other non-Chinese companies out of many of the big contracts there.
''U.S. companies have issues with China in many different business sectors,'' said John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-China Business Council in Washington. ''But if I were to point to one single issue over the last year, it has been China's innovation policies and how they link to government procurement.''
Under pressure from the United States and other countries, the Chinese have paused in their rollout of the rules. But Beijing has not scrapped them, and the administration will raise the issue again this week with Mr. Hu.
Mr. Frisbie also pointed to intellectual property rights as another ''existential issue'' for software developers and movie producers. There is some evidence of progress on this issue: at a meeting in Beijing last month, the Chinese government pledged to use only properly registered software in government offices.
As important as these issues are, some economists argue that they pale when compared with the distortions caused by an undervalued currency. While nationalistic rules that favor Chinese companies affect technology and entertainment giants, China's cheap currency undercuts tens of thousands of small-scale American manufacturers -- companies that still make their products at home.
''The small mom-and-pop companies, which are getting crushed by the renminbi, you never hear from them,'' said Nicholas R. Lardy, an expert on the Chinese economy at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''They don't really have a voice. They just shrink and go out of business.''
While the renminbi, China's currency, has risen 3.6 percent against the dollar since China loosened its link to the dollar last June, Mr. Lardy estimates that it is still undervalued by 15 percent to 17 percent on a trade-weighted basis.
Mr. Geithner has argued that it is in China's self-interest to allow its currency to rise, to curb building inflationary pressures in the Chinese economy. The Chinese government has also declared that it wants to reduce the share of exports in overall economic growth.
But Mr. Lardy said he was skeptical that the Chinese would take the advice, given that they had not accelerated the rise in the currency last fall, when inflation began heating up. And in the wake of a financial crisis that originated in the United States, he said, China would be even less inclined to listen to economic prescriptions from Washington.
''They learned that the advice they've been getting from previous Treasury secretaries wasn't worth the paper it was printed on,'' Mr. Lardy said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Tuesday welcomed President Hu Jintao of China for his state visit to the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 President Hu Jintao of China, center, with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TOYS & GAMES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (91%); JOE BIDEN (71%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



475 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Obama Asks For Review Of Rules Stifling Jobs

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Tuesday ordered ''a government-wide review'' of federal regulations to root out those ''that stifle job creation and make our economy less competitive,'' but exempted many agencies that most vex corporate America.
The executive order that Mr. Obama signed at the White House would not apply to federal agencies created to be largely independent of the White House and Congress, which includes most of those currently enforcing and writing rules for banks and other financial institutions mandated by the regulatory overhaul law that Mr. Obama signed last year to avoid future crises. 
While it remains unclear what substantive impact Mr. Obama's action will have, the political underpinning was apparent.
The president has made no secret of his desire for detente with the business community that was so alienated by the agenda of his first two years, in particular the laws strengthening financial regulatory system and overhauling health care and insurance. More broadly he has sought to tack to the political center after Democrats' defeats in the midterm elections confirmed his party's loss of support from independent voters.
Business and conservative groups welcomed the initiative, while liberal and consumer-oriented groups were more wary, even critical. But each side was mostly skeptical, as were nonpartisan policy analysts, about what might come of the regulatory review, since Mr. Obama is following in the well-worn tracks of presidents going back four decades, at least to Gerald R. Ford, in seeking to respond to businesses' complaints about burdensome government rules.
''It's more of a talking point than a policy,'' said Robert E. Litan, the vice president for research and policy at the Kauffman Foundation, who oversees academic research relating to entrepreneurship.
''Even if you find a rule you don't like, and they probably will, then they're going to have to go through rule-making and then it's going to take a year or two or longer,'' Mr. Litan added. ''And then somebody will sue them; if it's not another industry it will be a consumer interest group or a Republican interest group.''
He recalled that one of Ronald Reagan's first acts as president was to win repeal of a requirement for auto airbags that car-makers had fought. The insurance industry sued, arguing that the bags would save lives and medical costs, and ultimately won in the Supreme Court.
While administration officials denied that Mr. Obama was seeking to appeal to business and described the order as long in the making, the president announced it himself via an op-ed article in Tuesday's Wall Street Journal.
Mr. Obama cited the automobile fuel economy deal negotiated with automakers, state and federal officials, auto workers and environmental advocates as an example of how difficult regulatory questions can be resolved through negotiation rather than confrontation. But that plan, which set a schedule for carmakers to increase auto and light truck fuel economy over the next five years, was possible in large part because two major American car companies -- General Motors and Chrysler -- were in bankruptcy and receiving federal bailout funds. They were not in a position to challenge the nationwide mileage regulations.
Automakers, who returned to profitability last year, are contesting proposed new federal fuel economy and emissions rules that would take effect beginning in 2017.
The Obama administration is also moving ahead with new regulations on greenhouse gas emissions from large stationary sources like power plants and refineries, but has said it would do so in a cost-effective and common-sense way. The first stage of the program took effect earlier this month, but the Environmental Protection Agency has said it would not impose new performance standards on such facilities until next year and that smaller plants would be exempt for several years.
The environmental agency has also delayed new rules governing smog and toxic emissions from industrial boilers, in part because of stiff opposition from industry and from newly assertive Republicans in Congress.
Business groups have welcomed the recent moves, but are wary about new clean air regulations on mercury, coal ash and other pollutants that are due later this year. Republicans in Congress have already announced they intend to mount a robust challenge to the administration's announced plans to address climate change using executive branch rule-making authority rather than legislation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama leaving a meeting last month with top business leaders concerning job growth and economic stimulus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



476 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANT REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Everything but the Showstopper

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON

 BODY:
CAN a restaurant succeed without a signature dish? Lyon, in Greenwich Village, is trying.
The restaurant is a Manhattan take on a bouchon, itself a Lyonnaise take on a bistro. It serves the salads and snails and sticky bits of pork and beef that are requisite to Lyonnaise cuisine in a beautiful wooden room under yellow light.
Some of the food is excellent. Compliments should ring for the rich, heady steam and flavor of the restaurant's onion soup, thickened with brisket and made silky with a kind of marrow jam, flavored with fontina and a deep bass note of demi-glace. The salad lyonnaise, with thick batons of bacon and a soft poached egg, is likewise remarkable, mustard-flecked, a model of the form. There is a good beet salad to start and a fine St. Marcellin cheese to finish, along with some lovely fried apple slices and a thick caramel sauce. 
Best of all are the restaurant's offerings of charcuterie: a dense country pate; some smoked beef sausage; a roulade of pig trotter; an excellent foie gras and rabbit terrine. To sit at Lyon's bar eating these, or a mustard-slathered hot dog off a pretzel roll, with just a hint of black truffle alongside a mound of sauerkraut, is to experience bouchon life as it ought to spool out in Manhattan in 2011, neither chic nor sordid, pleasant in the extreme.
The entrees need work, however.
The drop-off can be severe, if easily remedied. A tasteless hunk of market-priced wagyu, for instance, as soft and wobbly as panna cotta, is dispiriting even under its thin green peppercorn sauce, even with fries that are very good indeed. Replacing it with a rough little bavette or sirloin would do wonders. There is no place for a $45 designer steak in a restaurant like this.
And here is the same sauteed ruff of skate you'll find at any number of restaurants across town, perfectly fine if a little drowsy under its sage- and caper-strewn brown butter sauce. Also a molded steak tartare of middling flavor, to which more fire could be added with ease. There are well-cooked scallops and sweet smashed potatoes. These are soft enough to cushion the blow if you fall asleep in the middle of the meal.
Lyon needs a quiet little showstopper instead of these. The poulet roti you used to be able to get at Quatorze and still can get at Bar Boulud, for instance, would do the trick. Simple food that gets our attention without seeking it, or needing it, is why we go to restaurants of Lyon's ilk, after all, why bistros boomed, why people treasure the casual roughness of the true bouchon.
Francois Latapie, a former partner at La Goulue on the Upper East Side, opened Lyon last year, in the space that some will recall from its dark, railcar-ish past as Cafe de Bruxelles. (Chris Leahy is the chef, gamely executing Mr. Latapie's desires.) The space is beautiful. Roman and Williams, the firm that designed the room, ordered oak panels and detailed trim throughout the dining room, which runs along Greenwich Avenue, and placed enough inset slate boards and custom cabinets within them to have kept a finish carpenter in health insurance for months. The restrooms, downstairs, are papered with classic French cartoons.
It is a marvelous place to eat. The tables are set with red-checked napkins, the waiters and waitresses dressed to match. Each one is better looking than the last, worse at English, charming for that. They serve Beaujolais quickly, with gruff friendliness in tough little glasses, cold as a child's morning cup of milk.
The restaurant is warm and welcoming, already more a neighborhood draw than a publicist's undertaking, with celebrity sightings limited to Michael Moore and a war reporter or two. You might see young professionals crushed into a corner, catching up (''You're moving to Elkhart? Where is that, Illinois? Indiana?'') or literary people polishing their eyeglasses in pairs as they talk about art. No fewer than three tables one recent night were populated by women eating salad and talking about the economy, everyone slugging down wine.
Add the scent of Gauloises, a dog or two under the tables, and we might be down the street from the Hotel de Ville, and not from poor, dark St. Vincent's, waiting for its fate. Lyon is that close to soaring.
But there need to be a few more things on the menu you'd want to eat again and again, more you'd return for with glee.
An appetizer of escargot with garlic sausage and watercress risotto sounds promising enough, it's true. But it is really watercress risotto (wild and green, tasting of a suburban lawn) with a few bits of snail and sausage. It is a deconstructed idea rather than a classic well made. Preferable would be the actual article, bubbling and garlicky in pale brown shells.
A starter plate of tripe with white beans arrives under a cloak of bread crumbs, perfectly cooked but pale of flavor, as if translated out of French and into the flat English of airport announcements and corporate phone trees. It is more texture than taste.
And while quenelles de brochet, that classic dish of the region, offers quivering assurance on the plate, the spoonfuls of fish mousse are served in a lobster sauce that ought to be a great deal richer. The dish could use some salt and a run under the broiler. (A bacon-wrapped branzino needs less, served almost mushy with its pairing of sweet leeks and fennel.)
There is for all this a passable lamb shank served with a white bean stew. Some fiery merguez sausage livens up the plate, as North African flavors have increasingly done for French cuisine: good. It brings warmth to a winter night. Discs of pig trotter with foie gras, green lentils, spinach and a spray of sherry vinegar make up a dish that does likewise, especially paired with friends and a pot of wine.
Restaurants are central to the process by which nature becomes a form of culture. At their best they are where we go to experience, and celebrate, the transformation.
Lyon is not that, not yet. But it is so pretty, and the staff is so winning, and the kitchen skilled enough that it is hard not to root for its success. An entree that every third person in the restaurant orders would be a good place to start.
Lyon
Rating: 1 star
118 Greenwich Avenue (West 13th Street), Greenwich Village; (212) 242-5966.
ATMOSPHERE Charming and casual, with staff and cuisine to match.
SOUND LEVEL Moves from quiet to roaring as the evening progresses.
RECOMMENDED DISHES Salad lyonnaise; onion soup; charcuterie; rabbit and foie gras terrine; lamb shank; cheese, apple fritters.
WINE LIST Affordable, with a fine collection of Beaujolais.
PRICE RANGE Appetizers, $10 to $18; entrees, $21 to $45.
HOURS Sunday and Monday, 5 to 11 p.m.; Tuesday to Thursday, 5 to 11:30 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5 p.m. to midnight; Saturday and Sunday, 11:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
RESERVATIONS Recommended.
CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The restaurant has a small ramp from the street. Dining room has very narrow aisles. Restrooms are down a steep flight of stairs.
WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BISTRO-LIKE: Lyon in Greenwich Village, where the servers are as French as the atmosphere. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CHEESE (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LYON, FRANCE (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



477 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: N.F.L.'s Popularity Rises Along With Lockout Concerns

BYLINE: By RAY GLIER

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell was asked at the conclusion of an owners meeting Tuesday to account for the surge in the game's popularity. Goodell said it was not just one story line driving the soaring television ratings and fan interest, but many.
Soon, however, there could be one story line surrounding the owners' labor dispute with players. There are three more games to be played -- the conference championship games Sunday and the Super Bowl on Feb. 6 -- but after that the threat of a work stoppage will move front and center, and both sides will be portrayed publicly as gluttons in a multibillion-dollar industry. 
From the league's vantage point, negotiations appear to be stagnant, with no progress on the main issues: distribution of income and the length of the regular season. The collective bargaining agreement between the sides expires March 4 and there is a threat of a lockout.
Jerry Richardson, the owner of the Carolina Panthers, and Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, said the owners were trying to be stewards of the game and shepherd it through unsettling economic times.
''The labor agreement does not work,'' Richardson said. ''Just think about the economics we're living in now and the concept of wanting more money, more benefits and work less. Doesn't that seem unusual?''
Jones said owners were anxious because of the economy and wanted to adjust their business plans.
''Every place in the world, or in our country, are revisiting how they do business and revisiting their business models; everybody is doing it,'' Jones said. ''It is the time to do it, it is almost irresponsible not to do it. The time to address the adjustment in your business model is now, not when you are driving off the cliff.''
Richardson said the owners spent part of the meeting getting an update from their lawyers on litigation surrounding the labor issue, including a claim filed by the union last week that owners colluded to limit salaries and movement of restricted free agents. Richardson said he was ''shocked'' at the charge.
''I haven't seen any of their proof,'' Richardson said. ''I don't think they have any.''
Jeff Pash, the chief negotiator for the N.F.L., said the union was unnecessarily creating impediments with sidebar legal issues.
''If your focus is going to be on litigating and decertification, on meetings in Washington, and media events, then it will hard to get a deal done,'' Pash said. ''There has got to be a shared commitment. One side can't do it alone.''
COACHING MOVES The St. Louis Rams hired Josh McDaniels, the former Denver coach and New England offensive coordinator, as their offensive coordinator. McDaniels was hired as the Broncos' coach in 2009 but was fired last month after two controversy-filled seasons in the job. He was an assistant with the Patriots from 2001 to 2008. ... Jeremy Bates was fired as the Seattle Seahawks' offensive coordinator, ending a rocky one-year return to the N.F.L. for Bates during which the Seahawks ranked among the league's worst offenses. Seattle also hired former Raiders Coach Tom Cable as its assistant head coach/offensive line. ... Mike Singletary, the former San Francisco coach, is joining former teammate Leslie Frazier on his staff in Minnesota. Singletary's agent, Bob LaMonte, confirmed in an e-mail that Singletary would be the linebackers coach and assistant head coach under Frazier. (AP)
PENNINGTON TO TRY AGAINChad Pennington has decided to try another comeback. Pennington, a 34-year-old quarterback, lasted only two plays this season with the Miami Dolphins, then had surgery on his throwing shoulder for the fourth time.(AP)
BRONCOS' MARONEY ARRESTED Denver running back Laurence Maroney was arrested in St. Louis on drugs and weapons charges. His publicist said that he did nothing wrong.
The St. Louis police said five people in an Infiniti Q56 were arrested Monday night. The police declined to name the suspects but said all five are accused of possessing marijuana. Three, including a 25-year-old man, were accused of unlawful use of a weapon. Maroney, 25, is a native of suburban St. Louis. No one has been formally charged. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); STRIKES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); LITIGATION (66%); LAWYERS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CAROLINA PANTHERS (55%); DALLAS COWBOYS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (70%) TEXAS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



478 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Office Work Space Is Shrinking, but That's Not All Bad

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
HILLSBORO, Ore. -- Intel was never one of those technology companies where employees had beanbag chairs, designer desks and pinball machines. Its offices were known for their endless rows of gray cubicles, low ceilings and fluorescent lighting. For decades it resisted any changes to its office environment.
In the last two years, however, Intel has quietly been trying to inject a little more fun into its offices and make them places where employees can be more collaborative. The company has remade one million square feet of office space thus far in a sweeping redesign.
At its campus here outside of Portland, where it designs computer chips, gray walls have been repainted yellow, purple and white, cubicle walls are lower so employees can be seen, and lounges have been outfitted with flat-screen TVs, armchairs and sleek kitchens that would not look out of place in a design magazine.
The changes are being made for more than cosmetic reasons. To promote innovation, Intel wanted to create plenty of space where people could work in groups, rather than be isolated at their desks. 
Neil Tunmore, the director of corporate services at Intel, who oversees the company's 30 million square feet of office space, said, ''We realized that we were inefficient and not as collaborative as we would have liked.''
As employees become more mobile and less tied to their desks, the average amount of space per employee nationwide, in all industries, has dropped to 250 square feet from 400 square feet in 1985, according to Jones Lang LaSalle, a commercial brokerage and property manager. Within 10 years, that is expected to drop further, to 150 square feet.
''The office status symbol seems not to be as important. People are living for more flexibility in their lives,'' said Peter Miscovich, a managing director for corporate solutions at Jones Lang LaSalle.
By allotting less space per person, companies can squeeze more employees -- sometimes double or triple as many -- onto a floor. One newly redesigned floor of Intel's campus can now accommodate 1,000 people, up from 600. In some departments where employees are often on the road, two people may be assigned to a desk.
Of course, sometimes the downsizing in office space is not voluntary. Companies that went through rounds of layoffs are renegotiating leases, moving into smaller offices and mothballing large real estate projects to save money. In the last three years, companies have given up 137.8 million square feet nationwide, according to the real estate research firm Reis, and would most likely put more on the market if they could. Other companies are reducing their real estate expenses, which are generally the second-largest cost after employees.
Many companies are redesigning the workplaces that remain, opening them up to make them flexible for multiple uses. Even tradition-bound firms in accounting and banking are embracing open-plan offices and other changes. They have shut sections of floors to save money on utilities, squeezed remaining employees closer together, torn down walls and downsized cubicles or gotten rid of them entirely.
''Companies that were dragging their feet changed their minds with the bottom line,'' said Richard Kadzis, a spokesman for CoreNet Global, an association of real estate executives in Atlanta. ''Now that we're on the other side of the recession, companies are asking themselves, 'How do we be smarter?' Cost has driven traditional companies to free the reins.''
The accounting and consulting company Deloitte is trimming real estate costs at its San Francisco offices. Deloitte terminated a lease there five years early even though it carried a $12 million penalty and required a move. Its new landlord is paying part of the fee, according to the CoStar Group, a commercial real estate firm.
At its new San Francisco office, at 555 Mission Street, which opens this year, employees have less personal space and there are more community areas where accountants can meet clients. At nearly 182,000 square feet, the office is about 100,000 square feet smaller than the previous one.
Saving money, though, is not the only reason to downsize. Opening up an office makes people interact more and, the thinking goes, be more productive. It also makes it possible to eliminate some seldom-used desks or turn them into shared work spaces. Around 60 percent of a company's desks are vacant at one time, according to CoreNet Global, because workers are either on the road or in meetings.
''They're getting the Swiss cheese out of spaces,'' said Keith Perske, the president of Group 5 Consulting, a workplace consulting company in Austin, Tex. ''It makes you feel more loyal to a company if there's some energy or buzz'' in the work space. Sabre Holdings, a travel services firm that owns Travelocity.com, redid its headquarters in Southlake, Tex., near Dallas, four years ago. It consolidated 2,800 people into two buildings from five, eliminated its offices and desktop computers and added ''jump-in'' rooms for private conversations and phone calls. Everyone, including the chief executive, now works out of shared cubicles with laptops.
The renovations will save the company about $10 million per year, and Sabre is now introducing the changes at its offices around the world. At its 30,000-square-foot location in Buenos Aires, for example, it used many of the lessons it learned from its headquarters move. Realizing that the company would outgrow its space there before its lease expired -- and not wanting to lease a second building at an estimated $200,000 a year -- managers imposed the same changes as at the Texas offices.
Such a radical break can disorient employees, experts say. ''You need to give people three months to adjust, '' said Chris Fernandez, director of facilities at Jones Lang LaSalle, who helped oversee Sabre's changes. ''You get a lot of complaining but once they get accustomed to that environment, some of that noise starts to die off.''
Intel has also run into some resistance. When the real estate executives wanted to get rid of the ''gray on gray on gray'' color scheme, engineers complained. Light colors, they said, would show dirt.
''I told them the dirt was already there, we'd now see it and clean more often,'' said Russ Heinsen, Intel's general manager in corporate services, programs and training in Hillsboro.
Over the last two years, AT&T has been trimming excess space as leases expire, and introducing a telecommuting policy.
This June, AT&T opened its first tPlace, a flexible workspace with on-demand desks and videoconferencing, for its employees who live north of Dallas. The 4,000-square-foot space allows people to work closer to their homes and saves the company money: up to 25 percent of its employees did not have to move downtown to its new offices. It plans to open as many as five tPlaces in the next year.
''For every square foot we shed, we save a few dollars,'' said Mark Schleyer, senior vice president for corporate real estate at AT&T.
Office furniture makers have seized on the workplace changes and have been offering products that can be reconfigured for individuals or groups. In June, Steelcase introduced several products, including an electronic room-scheduling device, flexible walls and a long desk where people can sit and work side by side.
''A lot of thinking about the office has changed. The work setting was a reflection of your status,'' said Jim Keane, the president of Steelcase. ''A job focuses more on collaboration than on the individual now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new interior design in Intel's Hillsboro, Ore., offices, above, includes comfortable, open areas for collaboration. At left, the old model was a warren of gray cubicles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (54%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (93%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (93%); JLL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%) OREGON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



479 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Rock Stars for a Night, and for a Price

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
Long before they became doctors and lawyers or C.E.O.'s and real estate developers, they played in garage bands and maybe even dreamed of becoming rock stars. That's why they signed up for Rock 'n' Roll Fantasy Camp, and that's how they ended up on the stage of B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill on Monday night, dressed in leather and tossing their drumsticks and guitar picks to a cheering crowd.
For nearly a week, the mostly middle-aged ''campers'' had rehearsed in the West 54th Street studios once known as the Hit Factory, where Bruce Springsteen, John Lennon, Michael Jackson, Paul Simon and Stevie Wonder used to record. They came from as far away as London and Tokyo and as close as Long Island and downtown to prepare for their moment of onstage glory under the tutelage of rock star ''counselors'' like Mark Farner of Grand Funk Railroad and Rudy Sarzo of Quiet Riot and the Ozzy Osbourne band. 
''I feel like I'm 18 again,'' said Jerry Goldberg, a 60-year-old investment banker and guitar player, originally from Brooklyn, whose family was in the audience. ''I admit that I felt a little intimidated when I first got here, but this has turned out to be a wonderful experience, one of the greatest of my life.''
The Rock 'n' Roll Fantasy Camp is the creation of David Fishof, a former sports agent who expanded into the tour promotion business when he began handling artists like the former Beatle Ringo Starr. He organized the first camp in Miami in 1997, more than a decade after baseball fantasy camps began proliferating, thinking of it, he said, ''as a one-off.'' That venture, he said, ''lost a lot of money,'' but he tried again in 2002 and found that a market had developed.
Since then, his camps have been held in locations as far-flung as Las Vegas and London, where campers and their rock star counselors recorded in Abbey Road studios and made a side trip to Liverpool to play in the Cavern, the club where the Beatles became famous. (Pete Best, the Beatles' original drummer, sat in.) Celebrity participants vary from camp to camp but have included Bill Wyman of the Rolling Stones, Jack Bruce of Cream, Steven Tyler of Aerosmith, Brian Wilson of the Beach Boys and Slash of Guns N' Roses.
''Everybody has two businesses, their own business and show business,'' Mr. Fishof, 54, said. ''This can be a life-changing experience for them, and that's what I've built this business on.'' Asked how much the rock stars are paid for their participation, he said, ''I don't share that information'' because ''it's their private business.''
At this month's camp in New York, the big attraction was the singer Roger Daltrey of the Who, who on Sunday went from one rehearsal space to the next, jamming on Who hits like ''My Generation'' and ''I Can't Explain'' with campers who beamed with delight. After long days of rehearsals, there were also evening ''master classes'' with the likes of the drummer Simon Kirke of Bad Company, the producer Phil Ramone and the songwriter and producer Mark Hudson.
Mr. Daltrey, who has appeared at several fantasy camps, was asked why he keeps coming back. After all, at 66 he is secure financially and has no obvious need to spend time working with people whom others might classify as wannabes.
''I've had people tell me that I shouldn't be doing this, that it's bad for my image or my credibility,'' he acknowledged. ''But that's rubbish. Look, I've been on the road for more than 45 years now, and this reminds me of why I chose to do this in the first place. It's all so positive, and everybody is having so much fun. And if people like me, with my stature, didn't support this, it wouldn't exist. So what's bad about that?''
Jeff Munger, a drummer and rancher from Durango, Colo., who is also an avid fan of the Cleveland Indians, has gone to both baseball and rock fantasy camps and noted a sharp difference between the two. The baseball camp he attended, he said, was intensely competitive, whereas this was more collaborative.
He was playing in a group led by the multi-instrumentalist and singer Kip Winger. ''It's fun to be able to meet these guys as people,'' Mr. Munger said. ''I'm at a point in my life where I'm going to spend my money on things I'm passionate about, and I'm absolutely crazy about music.''
For the camp in New York, more than 60 musicians and singers enrolled (men substantially outnumbered women, and guitarists substantially outnumbered any other type of player), paying up to $10,000 for six days of camp and recording and $5,000 for a four-day package. Most of the campers are successful executives or professionals: a founder of the Oracle computer company, a personal-injury lawyer, a McDonald's franchisee whose father invented the Big Mac, a plastic surgeon, presidents of health care and seafood companies.
But for some other players, like Will Sealey, an affable, talented 24-year-old drummer from England who is a rabid fan of the Who, the commitment requires financial sacrifice. He worked in a bottle factory to save enough money for camp in Los Angeles, ''the first time I'd ever been on an airplane,'' he recalled, and has since been invited back as a guest by Mr. Daltrey or by other campers who enjoy his playing and company.
Many campers like their experience so much that they come back again and again. Ed Oates, 64, a founder of Oracle, was attending his ninth camp, has acquired what he called ''a small equity stake'' in the company and once even invited the other members of the garage band he plays in near Silicon Valley to come along as his guests.
''It's addicting, and cheaper and safer than cocaine,'' said Mr. Oates, a guitar player. ''That's the flip answer. The serious answer is that you get to eat and breathe music for a week and meet some pretty fabulous musicians who are also fabulous people. This revitalizes us as musicians, and it also teaches something about teamwork, since you're playing with people you've never met and have to find a way to make it work.''
At Mr. Oates's urging and using the slogan ''Step out of the boardroom and into the spotlight,'' Mr. Fishof two years ago also started a Corporate Rock 'n' Roll Fantasy Camp, with seminars, ''weekend getaway'' packages and programs of up to five days, all intended as a team-building exercise, bonus or corporate perk. ''That's my emphasis now,'' Mr. Fishof said, especially since ''it's a hard market in this new economy.''
For other campers, the experience offers catharsis. Bands were required to write and record an original song, and on the first full day of rehearsals, Jeff Lack, a 47-year-old oil-rig operator from Enid, Okla., who is also a vocalist from the Lynyrd Skynyrd school of grit, brought in a set of lyrics for his group, led by Mr. Sarzo, to put to music.
His fellow musicians asked about the story behind the lyrics, and Mr. Lack, his voice choked with emotion and his eyes moistening, told how his teenage son, Cory, died while driving drunk seven years ago next month, also killing two other people. Mr. Sarzo, who proved quiet and thoughtful, the opposite of the wild-man persona he adopts onstage, put the band to work, and within 48 hours a complete song called ''Seven Year Fog'' had been written and recorded.
As things turned out, Mr. Sarzo's group was the last of 10 to perform at the Monday night show, and ''Seven Year Fog'' was its last number. Mr. Lack began by pointing his finger to the heavens and then powered his way through the song.
''I've been keeping it all in, because it's hard for me to talk about it,'' he said. ''So it means a lot that Rudy and these guys have been willing to help me deal with this. It's been real therapeutic for me, but it's also been a hell of a lot of fun, and I can't wait to do it again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scenes from rock fantasy camp, clockwise from top left: Arthur Lauretano, on guitar, getting encouragement from Mark Hudson
Kip Winger during Monday's show
Roger Daltrey signing autographs for campers
and Christy Hemme backstage on Monday. (C1)
Arthur Lauretano rocking the house on Monday with a guitar solo during his band's performance at B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill, the culminating event of the Rock 'n' Roll Fantasy Camp.
Robert Schomaker brushes up on his guitar work in a backstage corridor in preparation for the Monday night concert
 The Dicksteins, named after Mark Dickstein (center), a personal-injury lawyer from Florida and the group's lead singer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); BASEBALL (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); MIAMI, FL, USA (68%) FLORIDA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



480 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Panel Begins to Set Rules to Govern Financial System

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The new regulatory board charged with overseeing the stability of the financial system took its first big steps on Tuesday to set out tentative guidelines to limit trading by banks for their own accounts and to restrict the growth of the biggest financial companies.
The Financial Stability Oversight Council, the grand council of financial regulators created by the Dodd-Frank Act, also proposed rules as to which large financial companies that were not banks would be regulated by the Federal Reserve because they constituted a potential threat to the nation's financial system's stability based on their size. 
It is likely to take several days for Wall Street to wade through and decipher many of the implications of the recommendations, which were embedded in reams of studies, reports and regulatory filings released simultaneously Tuesday afternoon. Among the four documents was a 79-page report on the Volcker rule, the ban on trading by banks for their own accounts that is named for Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman who championed the idea, and 46 pages of proposed rules on regulating nonbank financial companies.
The recommendations made public on Tuesday are subject to revision based on public comments and the recommendations of various other state and federal regulatory agencies. But the proposals are among the most concrete steps yet aimed at preventing financial institutions from becoming ''too big to fail'' and at keeping tabs on insurance companies and other companies whose activities could endanger the American economy.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who serves as chairman of the oversight council, said the proposed rules and policy recommendations were necessary ''so that consumers and investors can have more confidence that they won't be taken advantage of and so that businesses and working families will not be vulnerable again to the type of crisis we're just coming out of.''
Among its actions, the council laid out a set of 10 steps to adopt the Volcker rule.
Jaret Seiberg, a research analyst at MF Global's Washington Research Group, said in a report that some of the council's Volcker rule recommendations were ''even more positive than the industry was expecting,'' including provisions that would allow banks to hedge trading positions used in market-making activities that serve clients.
Under the rules, banks would have to sell or wind down their proprietary trading desks, set up a supervisory system to distinguish prohibited trading from legitimate market-making and capital-raising activities on behalf of customers, and refrain from investing in or sponsoring hedge funds or private equity funds.
While several banks have shut or announced plans to sell the proprietary trading operations that were sources of losses during the financial crisis, the council said in a report that some proprietary trading might still be occurring in disguise, ''within permitted activities that are not organized solely'' for that purpose.
Regulators now have eight months to draw up specific regulations on proprietary trading, which are likely to include new quantitative measures to differentiate between permissible and banned activities. The law calls for the Volcker rule to be set by mid-September.
Separately, the council released recommendations to adopt a Dodd-Frank provision aimed at preventing already large financial companies from becoming ''too big to fail.'' Specifically, the proposed rules would prohibit mergers or acquisitions that would result in any company's liabilities -- customer's deposits and money the bank has borrowed -- exceeding 10 percent of the financial industry's total liabilities.
The 10 percent limit is potentially stronger than an earlier law restricting any company from exceeding 10 percent of the nation's financial deposits, the council said. By including nondeposit liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures, like special types of borrowings, the rule would limit the ability of banks to hide their risks in more volatile and exotic securities.
One of the biggest debates after the financial crisis stemmed from a lack of oversight by the Fed of financial companies that were not banks but which, because of their dealings in derivatives and other products, posed a significant threat to the banking system.
In the recommendation offered by the council, a framework for assessing a company's systemic importance would be based on six factors: its size, the lack of substitutes for the products it provides, its interconnectedness with other financial firms, its leverage, liquidity risk and existing regulatory scrutiny.
The oversight council also has begun considering an overhaul of government involvement in the mortgage market. The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said Tuesday that it had directed the companies to develop a system for collecting payments from borrowers, a process known as mortgage servicing.
Mortgage servicers are paid a pittance by mortgage investors like Fannie and Freddie, enough to cover their routine responsibilities but not the additional work of dealing with delinquent borrowers. And servicers have little or no incentive to help borrowers avoid foreclosure.
Alternatives could include paying a larger fee, or requiring servicers to transfer delinquent loans to companies that specialize in working with troubled borrowers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke, Timothy Geithner and Sheila Bair on Tuesday for a meeting of the Financial Stability Oversight Council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INSURANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FAMILY (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (63%); PRIVATE EQUITY (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (54%); SHEILA BAIR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



481 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: 'Bad Boy' Guarantees Snarl Billions in Real Estate Debt

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
The commercial real estate market is being hobbled by billions of dollars in distressed debt, and some experts are pointing to a provision in many loans -- a so-called bad-boy guarantee -- that they say is to blame for a large part of the backlog.
In previous down cycles, when the market was readjusting after a boom, real estate companies would declare bankruptcy to extricate themselves from troubled deals. This time around, many commercial mortgages included provisions that held developers personally liable for the loan if their companies filed for bankruptcy. As a result, foreclosures, in which the competing interests of many parties often play out in lengthy court battles, are now typical. 
''Because of the bad-boy guarantees, we have unquestionably had far fewer bankruptcies then we would have had, and than we saw in the 1990s,'' said David M. Neff, a co-chairman of the hotels and leisure practice at the law firm Perkins Coie, who is based in Chicago.
The bad-boy guarantees, also known as springing guarantees, began appearing in the 1980s, but it was not until the early 1990s that they became conspicuous. ''In the last down cycle in the 1990s, lenders would go to foreclose on a property, and the day before, the borrower would suddenly file for Chapter 11,'' said Raymond N. Hannigan, a partner in the New York law firm Herrick, Feinstein.
Lenders began insisting on the provisions to prevent Chapter 11 filings, which they disliked for, among other reasons, the protections they afforded borrowers, the costly litigation involved and the fact that decisions were often up to the whims of a judge.
But while foreclosures -- in which the developer typically hands over a property's keys and walks away -- have been considered preferable to bankruptcies, many borrowers and even some lenders are now having second thoughts. This is because many commercial loans that originated in the recent boom involved a multitude of lenders with competing interests. Getting these parties to agree in a foreclosure process has been difficult.
In a bankruptcy, on the other hand, distressed properties can be sold without the lenders agreeing unanimously. ''Thus you avoid the holdout problem and individual creditors engaging in brinkmanship trying to get the best deal for themselves,'' said Gregg L. Weiner, a partner in the law firm Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson who represents many borrowers.
In December, $61.5 billion in commercial mortgage bonds were delinquent, the highest amount ever recorded, according to the research firm Trepp. With billions of dollars in troubled loans that must be resolved through restructurings, bankruptcies or foreclosure actions, some commercial real estate experts say that borrowers are likely to mount pressure to overturn bad-boy guarantees to pave the way for additional Chapter 11 filings.
''If lenders are logical and would rather resolve issues instead of litigate, then they will consider ways to modify the constraints that their borrowers may have originally agreed to,'' said Michael Pomeranc, a developer and a partner in the Thompson Hotel Group, who has signed several loan documents that included bad-boy guarantees.
Since the market crash, some lenders have engaged in a game of ''extend and pretend'' with troubled developers, where they extend their loan agreements past the maturity dates to keep them from defaulting in the hope that the economy will improve and the loans will be repaid. As a consequence, the loans are not recorded as distressed though they may be in fact.
Starting this year, many extensions will expire and ''lenders are going to have to finally work out these loans and as a result, bad-boy guarantees are going to come under much more scrutiny,'' said William M. O'Connor, a partner in the law firm Crowell & Moring, who represents borrowers.
Critics of the guarantees say lenders have handcuffed borrowers by expanding the provisions beyond their original intent. ''While the bad-boy guarantees were originally intended to focus on truly bad-boy acts, over time lenders couldn't help themselves,'' Mr. Weiner said.
In one recent case, ING Real Estate Finance and Swedbank sued the developers of a stalled Midtown hotel and condominium project over a $145 million loan. The developers, Aby Rosen and Michael Fuchs, whose RFR Holding owns Lever House and the Seagram Building, took out the loan with their partners in 2007 to build a 64-story Shangri-La Hotel at 610 Lexington Avenue.
By 2009, the hotel project had stalled and they were late paying a $278 million real estate tax bill. They paid the lien 19 days later, but the lenders asserted that the delay had activated the bad-boy guarantee and that they had to pay millions of dollars in penalties from their personal accounts.
The judge, who expressed incredulity at the terms of the guarantee, dismissed the claim.
In the vast majority of cases involving guarantees, the judges have ruled that they can be enforced. Perhaps the most visible case involved the Blue Hills Office Park in Canton, Mass. The developer was accused of transferring $2 million into an account and failing to notify the lender of the funds. The lender successfully sued the company's principals for $10.77 million under the bad-boy guarantee.
These court cases are nothing more than ''borrowers trying to change the rules of the game in midstream,'' said Mark Weibel, a partner in the law firm Thompson & Knight who is based in Dallas and represents lenders. ''It is borrowers who are not complying with their loan documents -- this is what is causing the mire.''
Still, a growing number of market players say that something must be done to allow bankruptcies to go forward.
''These guarantees can be an impediment to getting a sensible restructuring of commercial real estate loans,'' said Andrew A. Lance, a partner in the law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher who represents both borrowers and lenders. ''We either need an alternative way to properly incentivize borrowers or get clarity that servicers can waive guarantees without risk of being sued.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gregg L. Weiner, a lawyer at Fried, Frank, Harris, said a bankruptcy sale was often a simpler way of dealing with bad debts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (88%); LAWYERS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); BONDS (73%); LITIGATION (69%)

COMPANY: FRIED FRANK HARRIS SHRIVER & JACOBSON LLP (83%); PERKINS COIE LLP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



482 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Ford Foundation to Give Millions for Documentaries

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
Documentarians, rejoice! The Ford Foundation on Tuesday announced a five-year plan to pour $50 million into documentaries -- defined broadly, including online-only efforts -- that are focused on social issues. 
''With the growth of the Web and social networks, the potential global audience for filmed content with a social conscience has exploded,'' Luis A. Ubinas, president of the Ford Foundation, said in a statement.
Although the documentary has flourished in recent years in large part because of festival support, the genre continues to pose severe financing challenges because of a lack of interest at the mainstream box office. The Ford Foundation's program, called JustFilms, will dole out money in three ways. The first involves partnerships with organizations like the Sundance Institute, whose Sundance Film Festival opens on Thursday in Park City, Utah. JustFilms will contribute $1 million a year over five years to support Sundance's documentary film workshops, for instance.
Other financing plans for JustFilms include an open application process -- details are at www.fordfoundation.org/justfilms - and partnerships with other Ford Foundation grant-making programs where the introduction of a documentary film could help draw attention.
Directing the program will be Orlando Bagwell, whose credits include the award-winning PBS series ''Eyes on the Prize,'' which looked at the civil rights movement. Mr. Bagwell said the foundation's major commitment ''reflects our recognition that individual stories -- meaningful and well told -- can be a powerful instrument of change.''
JustFilms is already supporting several films, including ''Detroit Hustles Harder,'' a documentary that chronicles the lives of people who have decided to stay in that economically ravaged city and work for its recovery.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (92%); FOUNDATIONS (91%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUNDANCE INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



483 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Again Delays Delivery of Dreamliner

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
The Boeing Company on Tuesday pushed back the first delivery of its 787 Dreamliner to the third quarter, hoping that the delay will give it enough time to finish a jetliner that is more than three years behind schedule.
The latest delay is a result of a fire in an electrical panel that forced a test plane to make an emergency landing in November. Boeing had to suspend test flights while it redesigned some parts, and it just resumed flights on Monday to test systems that require federal certifications.
Boeing's last projection had anticipated the first delivery in February. But the company, based in Chicago, said Tuesday that it did not expect the delay to have a material impact on its earnings for 2011. 
The Dreamliner is the first passenger jet made substantially with lightweight carbon composites that could sharply reduce fuel costs. Boeing is counting on the midsize jet to retake the lead in commercial airplane sales from Airbus.
Analysts said the delay -- which means that the first delivery could come any time from July through September -- matched general expectations, and Boeing's stock rose more than 3 percent.
Robert Stallard, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said in a research note that investors were glad to see that the projected delay was not longer.
He said investors seemed comfortable that the 787 problems were ''not a showstopper, and will not have a meaningful impact on the positive trajectory of this aerospace upcycle.''
Over the last several years, Boeing has repeatedly pushed back the delivery date for the innovative plane, which has attracted more advance orders -- about 850 -- than any passenger jetliner in history.
Boeing executives have acknowledged that they outsourced too much of the design and production work. Boeing has had to rework many parts that were poorly made, and executives have said the company might have to build 40 to 50 of the planes before it overcomes all the problems. The company has also had to halt parts deliveries and slow its production line several times in recent months to try to regain control.
As a result, analysts say the company is unlikely to deliver more than a few planes this year. And they are waiting to see whether the latest delay has an impact on the company's plans to sharply increase production in 2012 and 2013.
Despite the delays, investors have remained relatively patient. Boeing still has a two- to three-year edge over Airbus in building more fuel-efficient carbon planes, and the demand for new planes is strong as airlines emerge from the recession.
But it is also clear that the plane will not be as profitable as once seemed possible.
Boeing, which has had to spend billions more than expected on its development, does not receive most of its payments until it delivers the planes. Because of the delays, it also owes several billion dollars in penalties to suppliers and airlines.
Moreover, the trade publication, Flight International, recently reported that Boeing had offered steeper discounts than previously known to win some orders.
The publication said that from 2004 through 2006, Boeing had agreed to sell more than 300 Dreamliners at prices, excluding engines, that ranged from $66 million to $84 million, or much lower than the $100 million or more that analysts had estimated.
Airbus received 644 orders for its various models in 2010, just ahead of Boeing's 625. Airbus said on Tuesday that it had raised the average price of its planes by 4.4 percent. Boeing had announced an average price increase of 5.2 percent at the end of 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Boeing 787 Dreamliner completed its first test flight in Seattle on Dec. 15, 2009, more than two years later than planned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN P. CASEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); AIRLINES (77%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (76%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (98%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (55%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



484 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths ADAMS, F

 BODY:
ADAMS--F. Gerard (Jerry) 81, prominent economist who spent the bulk of his career at the University of Pennsylvania, died Saturday, January 15 in Newton, MA of complications related to pancreatic cancer. He was the author of a substantial body of research over a distinguished career. After spending 37 years at the University of Pennsylvania, he moved to Northeastern University in Boston. 
He completed his final teaching assignment there this last December, 2010. Prof. Adams was born in Breslau in 1929. His family emigrated to the United States in 1939. He attended the University of Michigan, receiving an undergraduate degree in 1949 and then continuing on to obtain a Ph.D. in 1956 under the supervision of Lawrence Klein, who subsequently went on to win the Nobel Prize in Economics. In 1961, he joined Klein, who had moved to the University of Pennsylvania, where he remained until 1998. He helped Klein to create the Wharton Model, one of the first econometric forecasting models using computers to simulate the world economy. It subsequently grew into the Link Model, which forecasts the economy using a variety of input data from smaller models around the world, and which contributed to Klein's Nobel Prize in 1980. Prof. Adams served as the director of the Economics Research Unit at the University of Pennsylvania and a principal investigator on the Link Model. Together with Klein, he was one of the founding members of Wharton Economic Forecasting Associates. He was the author of over 250 research articles and over a dozen books, including "The Business Forecasting Revolution," "East Asian Development: Will the East Asian Growth Miracle Survive?," "Macroeconomics for Business and Society," "The E-Business and the New Economy," and "East Asia and the New Economy." He submitted the manuscript for his newest book "Globalization and the New Economy" in December. Prof. Adams is survived by his wife Heidi Vernon, his brothers Peter Adams and Robert Adams, his four children Leslie Martin, Colin Adams, Loren Burton, and Mark Adams, his stepchildren Joshua Wortzel and Jennifer Stiller, his ten grandchildren, and his cats Minou and Maomi, all of whom will miss him greatly. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Adams Prize of the Economics Department at Swarthmore College, 500 College Ave., Swarthmore, PA 19081-1397.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CHILDREN (86%); MODELING & SIMULATION (77%); CANCER (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); CATS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (94%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN ASIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



485 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1249 words

PERSON: Milton Rogovin 

HEADLINE: Milton Rogovin, Photographer Who Championed the Poor, Dies at 101

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
Milton Rogovin, an optometrist and persecuted leftist who took up photography as a way to champion the underprivileged and went on to become one of America's most dedicated social documentarians, died on Tuesday at his home in Buffalo. He was 101.
He died of natural causes, his son, Mark Rogovin, said.
Mr. Rogovin chronicled the lives of the urban poor and working classes in Buffalo, Appalachia and elsewhere for more than 50 years. His direct photographic style in stark black and white evokes the socially minded work that Walker Evans, Dorothea Lange and Gordon Parks produced for the Farm Security Administration during the Depression. Today his entire archive resides in the Library of Congress.
Mr. Rogovin (pronounced ruh-GO-vin) came to wide notice in 1962 after documenting storefront church services on Buffalo's poor and predominantly African-American East Side. The images were published in Aperture magazine with an introduction by W. E. B. Du Bois, who described them as ''astonishingly human and appealing.'' 
He went on to photograph Buffalo's impoverished Lower West Side and American Indians on reservations in the Buffalo area. He traveled to West Virginia and Kentucky to photograph miners, returning to Appalachia each summer with his wife, Anne Rogovin, into the early 1970s. In the '60s he went to Chile at the invitation of the poet Pablo Neruda to photograph the landscape and the people. The two collaborated on a book, ''Windows That Open Inward: Images of Chile.''
In a 1976 review of a Rogovin show of photographs from Buffalo at the International Center of Photography in Manhattan, the critic Hilton Kramer wrote of Mr. Rogovin in The New York Times: ''He sees something else in the life of this neighborhood -- ordinary pleasures and pastimes, relaxation, warmth of feeling and the fundamentals of social connection. He takes his pictures from the inside, so to speak, concentrating on family life, neighborhood business, celebrations, romance, recreation and the particulars of individuals' existence.''
Milton Rogovin was born on Dec. 30, 1909, in Brooklyn, the third of three sons of Jewish immigrant parents from Lithuania. His parents, Jacob Rogovin and the former Dora Shainhouse, operated a dry goods business, first in Manhattan on Park Avenue near 112th Street and later in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn. After attending Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan, the young Mr. Rogovin graduated from Columbia University in 1931 with a degree in optometry; four months later, after the family had lost the store and its home to bankruptcy during the Depression, his father died of a heart attack.
Working as an optometrist in Manhattan, Mr. Rogovin became increasingly distressed at the plight of the poor and unemployed -- ''the forgotten ones,'' he called them -- and increasingly involved in leftist political causes.
''I was a product of the Great Depression, and what I saw and experienced myself made me politically active,'' he said in a 1994 interview with The New York Times.
He began attending classes sponsored by the Communist Party-run New York Workers School, began to read the Communist newspaper The Daily Worker and was introduced to the social-documentary photographs of Jacob Riis and Lewis Hine.
Mr. Rogovin moved to Buffalo in 1938 and opened his own optometric office on Chippewa Street the next year, providing service to union workers. In 1942 he married Anne Snetsky before volunteering for the Army and serving for three years in England, where he worked as an optometrist. Also in 1942, he bought a camera.
Returning to Buffalo after the war (his brother Sam, also an optometrist, managed the practice in his absence), Mr. Rogovin joined the local chapter of the Optical Workers Union and served as librarian for the Buffalo branch of the Communist Party.
In 1957, with cold war anti-Communism rife in the United States, he was called before the House Un-American Activities Committee but refused to testify. Soon afterward, The Buffalo Evening News labeled him ''Buffalo's Number One Red,'' and he and his family were ostracized. With his business all but ruined by the publicity, he began to fill time by taking pictures, focusing on Buffalo's poor and dispossessed in the neighborhood around his practice while living on his wife's salary as a teacher and being mentored by the photographer Minor White.
His wife, a special education teacher, was a collaborator throughout his career and helped him organize his photographs until her death, in 2003.
Mr. Rogovin's photographs were typically naturalistic portraits of people he met on the street. ''The first six months were very difficult,'' he recalled in a 2003 interview, ''because they thought I was from the police department or the F.B.I.''
But he gradually built trust, giving away prints of portraits in exchange for sittings. He never told his subjects what to do, allowing them to pose in settings and clothing of their own choosing.
''These aren't cool sociological renderings but intensely personal evocations of a world whose faces are often missing in a culture that celebrates the beautiful and the powerful,'' Julie Salamon wrote in The Times in 2003 on the occasion of a Rogovin exhibition at the New-York Historical Society.
Mr. Rogovin began his Storefront Church series in 1961 at the invitation of a friend, William Tallmadge, a professor of music at State University College at Buffalo who was making recordings at a black church on the city's East Side. The success of the series encouraged Mr. Rogovin to devote more and more time to photography and persuaded him that photography could be an instrument of social change.
In 1972 he earned a Master of Arts in American studies from the University at Buffalo, where he taught documentary photography from 1972 to 1974. The next year he held his first major exhibition, at the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo.
In the next years his photographs were published in several books and widely exhibited; a show of his work is currently on view at the Gage Gallery in Chicago. Many are in the collections of museums, including the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris, the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles and the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. The Library of Congress acquired his archive in 1999.
In addition to his son, of Forest Park, Ill., Mr. Rogovin is survived by two daughters, Ellen Rogovin Hart of Melrose Park, Pa., and Paula Rogovin of Teaneck, N.J.; five grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
In his later years, as his health declined, Mr. Rogovin used a wheelchair and no longer took photographs. In 2009 he was nominated for a National Medal of Arts but was not selected.
His activism, however, was undimmed -- he attended political rallies and antiwar protests into his final years -- and his social conscience remained acute.
''All my life I've focused on the poor,'' he said in 2003. ''The rich ones have their own photographers.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an obituary on Wednesday about the photographer Milton Rogovin misidentified the academic affiliation of William Tallmadge, who invited Mr. Rogovin to begin his Storefront Church series of photographs. Mr. Tallmadge taught at the State University College at Buffalo (now Buffalo State College, State University of New York), not at the State University of New York at Buffalo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Three photographs by Milton Rogovin taken in Buffalo, where he lived: left and center, images from the Quartets series from 1972 (left) and 1973
right, a 1978 picture from the Steel Workers series. Mr. Rogovin didn't tell his subjects what to do, but allowed them to pose in settings and clothing of their own choosing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MILTON ROGOVIN)
 Milton Rogovin in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); DEATHS (89%); OPTOMETRY (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); WRITERS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (69%); LIBRARIES (69%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (69%); RELIGION (68%); FAMILY (67%); IMMIGRATION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); LITHUANIA (52%)

CATEGORY: Photography

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



486 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Commodities and a Promise in Europe Lift Shares

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Tuesday, extending a seven-week rally, as gains for commodity producers and a pledge of support by European finance chiefs for the region overshadowed lower-than-estimated profit at Citigroup and the leave of absence by Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive at Apple.
Alcoa and Sunoco rose at least 1.8 percent as the dollar fell, sending commodity prices higher. Boeing rose 3.4 percent after the seventh postponement of the 787 Dreamliner matched the length projected by some analysts. Citigroup fell 6.4 percent after revenue from stock and bond trading fell more than at JPMorgan Chase. Apple slumped 2.3 percent as Mr. Jobs went on leave because of his health. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.1 percent to 1,295.02, its highest level since Aug. 28, 2008. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 50.55 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,837.93.
''Investors seem to be absorbing the news out of Citigroup and Apple,'' said Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist for Prudential Financial in Newark, N.J. ''In Europe, finance leaders put a sort of firewall to contain the spread of the debt crisis. We don't know how long it's going to last, but it seems to be working. The markets are responding accordingly.''
The S.&.P. 500 has advanced for seven weeks through Jan. 14, its longest rally since May 2007. European stocks rose as the euro zone finance ministers vowed on Monday to strengthen the safety net for struggling countries, examining ways to give the 750 billion euro ($1.2 trillion) rescue fund more flexibility without ruling out increasing its size. The euro rose to a one-month high against the dollar.
Producers of energy and raw materials gained as the weaker dollar improved the appeal of commodities as an alternative investment. Alcoa gained almost 1.9 percent to $16.27. Exxon, the biggest energy company, added 1.1 percent to $78.71.
Boeing led the gains in the Dow average, rising 3.4 percent to $72.47. The company pushed back the 787 Dreamliner's entry into service for the seventh time, to the third quarter, more than three years behind the original delivery schedule for the jet. The delay is ''in line with general consensus expectations,'' said Peter Arment, an analyst with Gleacher & Company Securities in Greenwich, Conn.
Citigroup slumped 6.4 percent to $4.80 after posting $1.1 billion in charges related to tightening of the bank's credit spreads. The company earned 4 cents a share, excluding certain items, missing the average analyst's estimate by 48 percent. I.B.M. and Apple also reported results on Tuesday.
After the close of regular trading, I.B.M. said its fourth-quarter profit was $4.18 a share. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for earnings of $4.08 a share. The shares, which gained 0.4 percent to $150.65, rose 2.2 percent to $154.80 in after-hours trading.
Apple declined 2.3 percent to $340.65. After the close, Apple reported first-quarter earnings of $6.43 a share. The average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey was $5.41. The shares rose 1.3 percent to $345.19 in after-hours trading.
Comerica declined 8.3 percent to $38.74. The bank, based in Dallas, agreed to buy Sterling Bancshares of Houston for about $1.03 billion in stock. Sterling Bancshares rallied 16 percent to $8.93.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 11/32, to 93 27/32, and the yield rose to 3.37 percent from 3.32 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BONDS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); EURO ZONE (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GLEACHER & CO INC (62%); ALCOA INC (58%); BOEING CO (57%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GLCH (NASDAQ) (62%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); PRU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (62%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (55%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



487 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1821 words

PERSON: Sargent Shriver 

HEADLINE: Sargent Shriver, First Peace Corps Leader, Dies at 95

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
R. Sargent Shriver, the Kennedy in-law who became the founding director of the Peace Corps, the architect of President Lyndon B. Johnson's war on poverty, a United States ambassador to France and the Democratic candidate for vice president in 1972, died on Tuesday in Bethesda, Md. He was 95.
His family announced his death in a statement.
Mr. Shriver was found to have Alzheimer's disease in 2003 and on Sunday was admitted to Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, where he died. He had been in hospice care in recent months after his estate in Potomac, Md., was sold last year. 
White-haired and elegantly attired, he attended the inauguration of his son-in-law, Arnold Schwarzenegger, as the Republican governor of California in the fall of 2003. Mr. Schwarzenegger is married to Maria Shriver, a former NBC News correspondent.
But in recent years, as his condition deteriorated, Mr. Shriver was seldom seen in public. He emerged in one instance to attend the funeral of his wife of 56 years, Eunice Kennedy Shriver, a sister of John F. Kennedy; she died in 2009 in Hyannis, Mass., at the age of 88.
As a Kennedy brother-in-law, Mr. Shriver was bound inextricably to one of the nation's most powerful political dynasties. It was an association with enormous advantages, thrusting him to prominence in a series of seemingly altruistic missions. But it came with handicaps, relegating him to the political background and to a subordinate role in the family history.
''Shriver's relationship with the Kennedys was complex,'' Scott Stossel wrote in ''Sarge: The Life and Times of Sargent Shriver,'' a 2004 biography. ''They buoyed him up to heights and achievements he would never otherwise have attained -- and they held him back, thwarting his political advancement.''
The book, as well as reports in The New York Times, The Washington Post and other publications, suggested that Mr. Shriver's hopes to run for governor of Illinois in 1960 and vice president in 1964 and 1968 were abandoned to help promote, or at least not compete with, Kennedy aspirations. Mr. Shriver's vice-presidential race in 1972, on a ticket with Senator George S. McGovern, and a brief primary run for president in 1976 were crushed by the voters.
Mr. Shriver was never elected to any national office. To political insiders, his calls for public service in the 1960s seemed quixotic at a time when America was caught up in a war in Vietnam, a cold war with the Soviet Union and civil rights struggles and urban riots at home. But when the fogs of war and chaos cleared years later, he was remembered by many as a last vestige of Kennedy-era idealism.
''Sarge came to embody the idea of public service,'' President Obama said in a statement.
Mr. Shriver's impact on American life was significant. On the stage of social change for decades, he brought President Kennedy's proposal for the Peace Corps to fruition in 1961 and served as the organization's director until 1966. He tapped into a spirit of volunteerism, and within a few years thousands of young Americans were teaching and working on public health and development projects in poorer countries around the world.
After the president's assassination in 1963, Mr. Shriver's decision to remain in the Johnson administration alienated many of the Kennedys, especially Robert, who remained as the United States attorney general for months but whose animus toward his brother's successor was profound. Mr. Shriver's responsibilities deepened, however. In 1964, Johnson persuaded him to take on the administration's war on poverty, a campaign embodied in a vast new bureaucracy, the Office of Economic Opportunity.
From 1965 to 1968, Mr. Shriver, who disdained bureaucracies as wasteful and inefficient, was director of that agency, a post he held simultaneously with his Peace Corps job until 1966. The agency created antipoverty programs like Head Start, the Job Corps, Volunteers in Service to America, the Community Action Program and Legal Services for the Poor. (The Office of Economic Opportunity was dismantled in 1973, but many of its programs survived in other agencies.)
In 1968, Johnson named Mr. Shriver ambassador to France. It was a time of strained relations. President Charles de Gaulle had recognized Communist China, withdrawn French forces from NATO's integrated military command and denounced American involvement in Indochina. But Mr. Shriver established a working rapport with de Gaulle and was credited with helping to improve relations.
Mr. Shriver returned to the United States in 1970 to work for Democrats in the midterm elections and to reassess his own political prospects. His long-awaited break came two years later when Senator McGovern, the Democratic presidential nominee, picked him as his running mate. Mr. McGovern's first choice, Senator Thomas F. Eagleton, was dropped after revelations that he had received electroshock therapy for depression.
The McGovern-Shriver ticket lost in a landslide to the incumbent Republicans, Richard M. Nixon and Spiro T. Agnew. Four years later, Mr. Shriver ran for the Democratic presidential nomination, pledging a renewal of ethics after the Watergate scandal that drove Nixon from the White House. But Mr. Shriver was knocked out in the primaries and ended his political career.
In later years, he was a rainmaker for an international law firm, Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, retiring in 1986. He was also active in the Special Olympics, founded by his wife for mentally disabled athletes, and he continued his work with the Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law, an advocacy organization he founded in Chicago in 1967 as the National Clearinghouse for Legal Services.
In 1994, President Bill Clinton awarded Mr. Shriver the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Ten years earlier, President Ronald Reagan conferred the same award on Eunice Shriver. They were the only husband and wife to win the nation's highest civilian honor individually.
In 2008, PBS broadcast a documentary, ''American Idealist: The Story of Sargent Shriver.'' A children's book by Maria Shriver, ''What's Happening to Grandpa?,'' was published in 2004, explaining the effects of Alzheimer's disease. In May 2009, HBO presented a four-part documentary on Alzheimer's. Ms. Shriver was the executive producer of one segment, ''Grandpa, Do You Know Who I Am?''
Robert Sargent Shriver Jr., known as Sarge from childhood, was born in Westminster, Md., on Nov. 9, 1915, the son of his namesake, a banker, and Hilda Shriver. His forebears, called Schreiber, immigrated from Germany in 1721. One ancestor, David Shriver, was a signer of Maryland's 1776 Constitution. The Shrivers, like the Kennedys, were Roman Catholics and socially prominent, but not especially affluent.
On scholarships, he attended Canterbury, a Catholic boarding prep school in New Milford, Conn. -- John F. Kennedy was briefly a schoolmate -- and Yale University, graduating with honors in 1938. He earned a Yale law degree in 1941 and joined the Navy shortly before the attack on Pearl Harbor, becoming an officer on battleships and submarines in the Atlantic and the Pacific and winning a Purple Heart for wounds he sustained at Guadalcanal.
After the war, he joined Newsweek as an editor. He met Eunice Kennedy at a dinner party, and she introduced him to her father, Joseph P. Kennedy. In 1946, Joseph Kennedy hired him to help manage his recently acquired Merchandise Mart in Chicago, then the world's largest commercial building. In Chicago, Mr. Shriver not only turned a profit for the mart but also plunged into Democratic politics.
After a seven-year courtship, Mr. Shriver and Ms. Kennedy were married by Cardinal Francis Spellman at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York in 1953.
In addition to his daughter, Maria, Mr. Shriver's survivors include four sons, Robert Sargent Shriver III of Santa Monica, Calif.; Timothy, of Chevy Chase, Md.; Mark, of Bethesda, Md.; and Anthony, of Miami; and 19 grandchildren.
Mr. Shriver's relationships with the Kennedys were widely analyzed by the news media, not least because of his own political potential. He looked like a movie star, with a flashing smile, dark hair going gray and the kind of muscled, breezy athleticism that went with tennis courts and sailboats. Like the Kennedys, he was charming but not self-revealing, a quick study but not reflective. Associates said he could be imperious, but his knightly public image became indelible.
He took root in Chicago. In 1954, he was appointed to the city's Board of Education, and a year later became its president. In 1955, he also became president of the Catholic Interracial Council, which fought discrimination in housing, education and other aspects of city life. By 1959, he had become so prominent in civic affairs that he was being touted as a Democratic candidate for governor of Illinois in 1960.
Mr. Shriver did nothing to discourage reports that he was considering a run. But with the rest of the Kennedy clan, he joined John F. Kennedy's 1960 presidential campaign. As he and other family members acknowledged later, the patriarch, Joseph Kennedy, had told him that a separate Shriver race that year would be a distraction. So he resigned from the Chicago school board and became a campaign coordinator in Wisconsin and West Virginia and a principal contact with minorities.
As the election approached, the campaign learned that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had been sentenced in Georgia to four months of hard labor for what amounted to a minor traffic violation. Mr. Shriver suggested that Senator Kennedy call a distraught Coretta Scott King, who was terrified that her husband might be killed in prison. His reassuring call, and another by Robert F. Kennedy to a judge in Georgia that led to Dr. King's release, helped produce a windfall of black support for Kennedy.
Senator Kennedy broached the idea for a volunteer corps in a speech at the University of Michigan and crystallized it as the Peace Corps in an appearance in San Francisco. Mr. Shriver, who as a young man had guided American students on work-and-learn programs in Europe, seemed a natural to initiate it.
After the inauguration, Mr. Shriver, who scouted talent for the incoming administration -- people who came to be known as ''the best and the brightest'' -- was assigned to the task of designing the Peace Corps, which was established by executive order in March 1961.
As director, he laid the foundations for what arguably became the most lasting accomplishment of the Kennedy presidency. As the Peace Corps approaches its 50th anniversary this year, more than 200,000 Americans have served as corps volunteers in 139 countries.
Break mirrors, Mr. Shriver advised graduating students at Yale in 1994. ''Yes, indeed,'' he said. ''Shatter the glass. In our society that is so self-absorbed, begin to look less at yourself and more at each other. Learn more about the face of your neighbor and less about your own.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: R. Sargent Shriver and his wife, Eunice, campaigning during his run for vice president in 1972. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL)
Mr. Shriver in his office when he was the director of the Peace Corps, and with his son-in-law, Arnold Schwarzenegger, after his wife's funeral in 2009. It was one of his last public appearances. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE TAMES/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MATT CAMPBELL/E.P.A.)
 Mr. Shriver, right, with Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York, his brother-in-law, announcing Harlem renewal efforts in 1965. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); HOSPICE (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); RIOTS (60%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (56%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (94%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (88%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (73%); VIET NAM (51%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



488 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
INDIA'S LAUDED LEADER
Is Besieged at Home
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India is held in high esteem by world leaders. But if he is lauded overseas, Mr. Singh is now under attack at home, as critics blame his administration for indecision and inaction. PAGE A4
PAGE A4 
National
TESTS FOR ALZHEIMER'S SHOW
Promise for Early Diagnosis
Researchers are reporting major advances toward resolving two underlying problems involving Alzheimer's disease: How do you know if someone has it? And how can you screen the general population to see who is at risk? PAGE A13
GIFFORDS'S STAFF IS AT WORK
Representative Gabrielle Giffords's staff opened the congresswoman's district office two days after the shooting that left her with a severe bullet wound to the head, and the office has stayed open every weekday since. It has been one of the staff's few constants since a gunman opened fire at a community event on Jan. 8, killing six people and wounding the congresswoman and 12 others. PAGE A12
CASE ON STATE SECRETS
It has been almost 60 years since the Supreme Court last had a hard look at the state secrets privilege, which can allow the government to shut down litigation by invoking national security. But in hearing a case on a defense contract, the justices did not seem inclined to use the opportunity to give lower courts guidance about the privilege's contours. PAGE A15
New York
DEMOCRATIC POWER BROKER
Has a Governor's Ear
Many New Jersey Democrats are rankled at Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr., the well-connected Essex County executive, who has made a show of being close to Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican, at a time when other Democrats would like to undercut the governor. PAGE A17
Business
A PHYSICIANS GROUP
Renews Health Law Fight
The Association of American Physicians and Surgeons, a small professional group of doctors, has a history of opposing government involvement in medicine, and its director said it would start an effort to rally public support for repeal of the new health care law. PAGE B1
TAKING AIM AT REGULATION
President Obama ordered ''a government-wide review'' of federal regulations to root out those ''that stifle job creation and make our economy less competitive,'' but he exempted many of the agencies that most vex corporate America. The immediate effect is likely to be more political than substantive. PAGE B1
APPLE'S RECORD QUARTER
Consumers flocked into Apple stores and other outlets to snap up iPhones and iPads at a dizzying rate. They also bought millions of laptops, especially the new ultralight MacBook Air. Even businesses, which have historically shunned Apple's costly gadgets, appeared to embrace its products. The flurry of purchases lifted Apple to record sales and profits for the last three months of 2010. PAGE B1
Sports
A NEED TO BELONG SENDS
A New Jersey College West
During its first two seasons in Division I basketball, the New Jersey Institute of Technology played as an independent, scrounging for opponents after conference play around the country began in January. But sending its intercollegiate athletic teams to compete in the Great West Conference required a leap of geographic logic. PAGE B12
WORRIES OF N.F.L. LOCKOUT
The N.F.L. has seen soaring television ratings and fan interest, but there are worries that the threat of a work stoppage will move front and center and both sides will be portrayed publicly as gluttons in a multibillion-dollar industry. PAGE B14
Arts
'IDOL' PRODUCERS TO FOCUS
More on Mentoring Talent
After several years of contests that were panned by critics and many viewers, the producers of ''American Idol'' are promising more input from professional music producers, more entertaining performances by contestants and fewer distractions from surprise guests. PAGE C1
FESTIVAL'S HOMEGROWN FILMS
A number of currents run through the 2011 Sundance Film Festival, but perhaps the most notable one involves the large number of homegrown titles. Six of the 16 movies selected for the United States Dramatic Competition were shaped in the Sundance Institute's workshops -- a record. PAGE C1
Dining
CITY INSPECTIONS REVEAL
New A-List for Restaurants
Under the New York City Department of Health's six-month-old restaurant grading system, nearly 60 percent of the city's restaurants have inspection scores that rate an A. But some of the city's most highly regarded restaurants have struggled to get on the A list. PAGE D2
Op-ed
BEN SCHOTT PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); HEALTH CARE (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); COUNTIES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); HEAD INJURIES (68%); SALES FIGURES (67%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); LITIGATION (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); TABLET COMPUTERS (60%); SMARTPHONES (60%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%); JOB CREATION (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (82%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (90%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (72%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



489 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Basic Questions, Elusive Answers

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the fight over health care returned to the House floor on Tuesday, the debate could largely be stripped down to four questions that are relatively simple to ask, if not to answer:
Will the health care law, approved last year by Democrats with no Republican support, increase or reduce future federal deficits?
Will the law lead to the elimination of jobs by overburdened employers as Republicans assert, or will it create jobs as Democrats maintain? 
Will the law raise or lower the cost of medical care for individuals and families, employers, and state and federal governments?
And, will the law achieve President Obama's goal of providing coverage to more than 30 million uninsured Americans?
Given the complexity of the issues, none of these questions can yet be answered definitively.
More certain is the fate of the Republicans' bill to repeal the law, which contains 24 lines of legislative text and 38 lines of the names of the lawmakers sponsoring it. While House Republicans will vote to approve it on Wednesday, the Democratic-controlled Senate is highly unlikely to act on it.
Still, the assertions from the two sides highlight their radically different views about the proper role of government and market forces in the health care system. It is a policy fight that is likely to rage for the next two years in Congress and to figure prominently in the 2012 presidential campaign.
As floor debate on the repeal measure opened on Tuesday, Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the Budget Committee, who is a respected voice on fiscal issues, declared that the health care law would ''accelerate our country's path toward bankruptcy.''
Mr. Ryan expressed one of the Republicans' main complaints: that Democrats and independent Congressional budget analysts have underestimated the costs of the law, which Republicans say will ultimately add hundreds of billions of dollars to future federal deficits.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office disagrees.
In its official analysis, the budget office estimated that the cost of new benefits in the health care law would be more than offset by revenues from new taxes and by cuts in projected Medicare spending, reducing future deficits. Repealing the law, the budget office has predicted, would add $230 billion to federal deficits from 2012 to 2021.
Republicans dispute that, saying the cost will be far higher than expected.
''We believe that it is an unsustainable, open-ended entitlement that could very well bankrupt this country and the states,'' the House majority leader, Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia, said at a news conference on Tuesday.
The budget office has said that its estimates are based on the most likely outcomes, and that the eventual cost of the bill is equally likely to be higher or lower.
The office has also said that lawmakers may find it difficult to follow through with some aspects of the law, particularly cuts in projected Medicare spending. If the cuts do not take hold, the cost of the law could soar.
Democrats, meanwhile, say the law could save even more money than expected because the budget office does not give them credit for likely improvements in the delivery of medical services that could slow the growth in costs for individuals, businesses and the federal and state governments.
Weighing into the debate, Mr. Obama said Tuesday that Americans were already enjoying many benefits of the new law, and that he would not let Republicans dismantle it.
''I'm willing and eager to work with both Democrats and Republicans to improve the Affordable Care Act,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement. ''But we can't go backward.''
The White House and Congressional Democrats said the law would create more than 300,000 jobs, by slowing the growth of health costs so employers would have more to spend on wages and hiring. In addition, they said, the law provides tax credits to help many small businesses buy insurance for their employees.
By contrast, Representative Sam Graves, Republican of Missouri and chairman of the House Committee on Small Business, said the law ''could cost our economy 1.6 million jobs, one million of which could come from small businesses.''
Many economists say the effects on jobs are likely to be modest. Most large companies already provide health benefits to employees. And many small businesses will be exempt from penalties if they fail to do so.
While employers often pay premiums for their employees, economists say, the cost of health benefits is, over time, generally passed on to workers, through reductions in wages or other compensation. But employers cannot reduce the wages of people earning the minimum wage.
Thus, the Congressional Budget Office says, the new law ''will probably cause some employers to respond by hiring fewer low-wage workers,'' or by using more part-time and seasonal workers.
But Democrats say that if the law provides coverage to more than 30 million currently uninsured people, as intended, it will increase demand for medical services, thus creating new job opportunities in the health care industry.
Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Democrat of Florida, said, ''There is not a single area of health care'' that will experience job losses as a result of the law.
Republicans have emphasized the jobs issue, even naming their bill the ''Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act.'' But they have also pressed an argument that the law does not do much to slow the growth of health spending.
The law includes many provisions intended to restrain medical costs, which have long grown faster than general inflation.
For example, it would trim Medicare payment rates for hospitals and many other health care providers; create an independent advisory board to recommend further savings in Medicare; and encourage doctors and hospitals to coordinate care, eliminate duplicative tests and reduce the readmission of patients to hospitals.
But experts say they are not sure how effective these provisions will be, and note that countries around the globe have struggled to control medical costs.
Republicans say the law is geared less to limiting costs than to extending coverage to the uninsured. The budget office has estimated that by 2019 the law will have reduced the number of uninsured Americans by 32 million.
But even with a provision in the law requiring that most Americans obtain insurance, it is possible that the law will not cover as many people as expected. Some supporters of the law have questioned whether federal subsidies will be adequate to make insurance affordable for lower- and middle-income Americans. And while the law includes a broad expansion of Medicaid eligibility, many people now eligible do not enroll.
In addition, the continuing political controversy around the law has created even more uncertainty about how people will respond to it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, discussing the health law repeal legislation on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Debating the Impact of the Health Care Law: House Republicans plan to approve a bill on Wednesday that would repeal the health care overhaul. Below, two of the key points in the debate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); APPROVALS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MEDICARE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



490 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: In Annual Speech, Mayor Will Try to Put 3rd-Term Troubles Behind Him

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
In recent weeks, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been mocked as a Manhattan elitist on ''Saturday Night Live,'' booed for his educational policies and accused of ignoring far-flung corners of New York City paralyzed by snow.
But Mr. Bloomberg will take one step toward rebuilding a strained relationship with the city's other boroughs on Wednesday when he announces a plan to make it easier for New Yorkers to hail a cab outside of Manhattan. The mayor's proposal, part of his 10th State of the City address, would make it legal to hail livery cabs. 
The speech, at 1 p.m. on Staten Island, will offer him an opportunity to reassert his agenda after a series of setbacks. He has endured a bruising battle over his new schools chancellor, an $80 million fraud scheme involving the city's payroll system and a botched effort by the city to deal with a crippling snowstorm last month.
On Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg will try to remind New Yorkers of his signature accomplishments, particularly his efforts to stimulate the economy. He is also expected to push for changes to the city's pension system.
But looming over the occasion will be Mr. Bloomberg's recent troubles, which have prompted talk that a third-term ''curse'' has claimed another mayor and that unpredictable problems may have tarnished his record.
Mr. Bloomberg has said he has no regrets about his having sought a third term. ''I hope it was the right move for the city,'' he said recently, ''and I think it was the right move for me.''
It is far too early to offer a verdict on the mayor's twilight term, but historians point to signs of trouble. ''People can reasonably speculate that a more engaged and focused mayor would have handled things differently,'' said Chris McNickle, a historian who has written about the city's mayors. ''It's an office that tends to wear its occupants out.''
Mr. Bloomberg's aides dispute the idea that he has lost focus or become less effective. ''Look at the job creation we've had, look at the record on the budget, look at the fact that we've had less than 600 murders,'' said Howard Wolfson, a deputy mayor. ''If you look at the totality of the last 12 months, it is a powerful record.''
But not everything has gone smoothly. The mayor was heavily criticized for his choice of Cathleen P. Black, a former publishing executive with no educational credentials, as the city's public schools chancellor. The anger over Ms. Black's appointment and the highly secretive process that led to it has persisted: critics of Mr. Bloomberg's educational agenda booed him on Monday at a Martin Luther King's Birthday forum in Harlem.
Bruce N. Gyory, a political consultant and adjunct professor at the State University of New York in Albany, called the mayor's handling of Ms. Black's appointment a ''classic third-term move.''
''It is a sense of: 'This is the way I'm going to do it. I'm not going to let my own team talk me out of it or tell me how to roll it out,' '' he said.
Even before he decided to run for a third term, Mr. Bloomberg's advisers warned him of the potential peril: Four more years would increase the risk of something unforeseen happening.
The blizzard last month epitomized those concerns. A Marist poll this month showed the mayor's approval rating at 37 percent, the lowest since he took office.
The frustration among New Yorkers, analysts say, partly reflects pent-up anger over Mr. Bloomberg's successful effort to rewrite city law so he could run for a third term, which many saw as undemocratic and arrogant. That anger largely dissipated as the mayor kept city government running smoothly.
But the perception that Mr. Bloomberg is acting out of self-interest has returned, Mr. McNickle said, reinforced by his forays into national politics. ''People had given him a certain opportunity to re-earn the trust,'' he said. ''But in that context, the flirtations with national office are not helpful.''
In recent months, Mr. Bloomberg has lent his voice to an independent political group known as No Labels, and his media company, Bloomberg L.P., has announced plans to publish editorials that reflect his views.
The timing of the blizzard was especially inopportune for him. In the weeks before, the mayor had capped a season of political endorsements that took him from California to Rhode Island; he had delivered a high-profile rebuke of the government's handling of the economic recovery; and he had traveled to Washington to be on ''Meet the Press.''
Then the snow fell, and Mr. Bloomberg -- for all his finger-wagging at others -- seemed unable to get one of the most basic of municipal tasks accomplished.
As the scrutiny has increased, Mr. Bloomberg, known for his brassy rebuttals, has shown humility. He initially scoffed at suggestions that Ms. Black was not qualified, but reached a compromise that satisfied state officials.
Similarly, he was at first defensive of the city's response to the blizzard. But after the shortcomings became apparent, he was quick to denounce the city's response as inadequate.
Mr. Bloomberg's supporters say the mayor must persuade New Yorkers that he can evolve.
The City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, said, ''The question now is: Is he changing things to make sure he is learning from the mistakes?''
Former Mayor Edward I. Koch, whose own third term was bruised by scandal, said Mr. Bloomberg needed to continue to speak frankly about his missteps.
''The people of the city of New York are very generous,'' Mr. Koch said. ''All they want you to do is admit error.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, waiting to do a television interview on Monday in Manhattan, is to give his State of the City address on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (66%); HISTORY (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); VERDICTS (50%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); CATHLEEN BLACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



491 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Need to Belong Sends a New Jersey College West

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
NEWARK -- The New Jersey Institute of Technology is most assuredly in the Western Hemisphere and is more specifically a few miles west of Manhattan. But sending its intercollegiate athletic teams to compete in the Great West Conference required a leap of geographic logic that sounds wholly antithetical to a respected research institution.
''When I tell people that we're in the Great West, they usually don't know what it is and I have to explain what teams we play,'' said Jessica Gerald, a senior guard on the N.J.I.T. women's basketball team. ''Then they want to know why we're in this conference and I tell them that it's pretty much the only one we could get into.''
Last week, in a sparsely populated gym on a campus nearly deserted because of winter break, Gerald and the Highlanders opened their conference schedule with a victory over the University of Texas-Pan American -- which had landed in Newark via Houston, from Edinburg, Tex., only hours before a snowstorm. 
After the women played, a couple of dozen more fans trickled in for the men's game, also won by N.J.I.T., which made the jump into Division I basketball for the 2006-7 season only to have its men's team soon embark on a record 51-game losing streak.
During its first two seasons in Division I, N.J.I.T. played as an independent, scrounging for opponents after conference play around the country began in January. The Highlanders gravitated to programs in similar predicaments, location notwithstanding, and created home-and-home series with Texas-Pan American, Houston Baptist, Chicago State, Utah Valley, North Dakota and South Dakota.
In 2008, the teams banded together to become the basketball annex of the Great West Conference, which had existed for four years with other teams as a football league. At a time when revenue-generating sports are driving a significant rearrangement of the Division I conference map, nowhere has the old-school regional concept been stretched to the extreme more than in the Great West and, most of all, by N.J.I.T.
When Texas Christian was admitted recently into the Big East, it was to increase the conference's football footprint, adding a national power to the league's depleted ranks and another major market for the sake of exposure and recruiting. In that way, the power conferences are mimicking professional leagues, outgrowing their original territories and fancying themselves as national brands.
For N.J.I.T., at the bottom of the Division I food chain, the decision to join was more a matter of survival after Bryant University, of Smithfield, R.I., edged out the Highlanders for admission to the Northeast Conference, a 12-team league laden with teams within driving distance of Newark.
''Our long-term goal is to get into a conference that is more regional,'' said Margaret McKeon, the women's basketball coach. ''But though this league is all over the country, it's a good process for us to go through when you're taking a program from Division II into D-I. There are steps to every process.''
Along the way to N.J.I.T.'s preferred destination, those steps are being measured across thousands of miles and with the burden of transporting 12 of its 18 intercollegiate teams to outposts far and wide.
N.J.I.T.'s most recent athletic budget of $6.78 million covers scholarships, coaching salaries and operational costs. The decision to go with the Great West required ''a little bit of a struggle'' with the administration and is ''a little bit of a strain on the budget,'' Athletic Director Lenny Kaplan said. Fund-raising covers some extra costs, he added, and coaches cut back where they can.
''Instead of five pair of sneakers, maybe players get four,'' Kaplan said. ''Instead of four sweat suits, maybe they get two. The bottom line, if we get into another conference, the budget is not going to drop dramatically.''
The widespread travel, said Isaiah Wilkerson, a junior guard, has its perks. Wilkerson, from Staten Island, is looking forward to the trip to Texas in mid-February. ''I love warm weather, and being down there feels like a reward for dealing with all the cold up here,'' he said.
The bad news is that two games in Texas for the men and women will be followed by two more in the frigid Dakotas with a five-day break in between.
In addition to the 12-day trip, the men and women must travel to Chicago and to Orem, Utah, this month and back to Orem for the conference tournament in March. Last year, Gerald and some teammates took a midterm in an Orem hotel the day before they lost in the first round.
The conference's impact on class time is a concern, said Robert A. Altenkirch, the N.J.I.T. president. But in an e-mail, Altenkirch wrote that ''a large percentage of the student-athletes are in the Honors College and have G.P.A.'s that are better than the N.J.I.T. average.''
The move to Division I was met with skepticism and some scorn by many in the New York/New Jersey area. Why would a public institution with about 6,000 undergraduates, many of them commuters, and with a modest athletic facility try to get into the business of March Madness in a spiraling economy?
Altenkirch explained that N.J.I.T. had formulated a plan to move from Division III to II and finally to I long before his arrival in 2002.
''We decided to accelerate the move,'' he wrote. ''The move was seen to allow us to compete athletically with our academic peers, the good academic schools, gain visibility for doing so and helping to spread the N.J.I.T. brand.''
He acknowledged that the travel costs of membership in the Great West Conference ''are a concern, as is the name,'' which was adopted when all the football-playing colleges were out west. Presidents of the member institutions, Altenkirch said, are discussing how to control travel costs and considering a more inclusive name.
Even without an automatic bid to the N.C.A.A. tournament, the N.J.I.T. coaches say, the benefits of being in the league are multiple and create incentives.
''A season breaks down into thirds -- nonconference schedule, conference schedule and then postseason,'' said Jim Engles, the men's basketball coach. ''As an independent, we played a lot of the same teams because we were in the same boat. But we didn't have the same experience. Human nature is what it is. When you're not really playing for anything and the season starts to roll on, you're only playing for the ideal of it.''
Despite a nonconference schedule that included losses to Big East neighbors Rutgers and Seton Hall, Engles detected ''a different energy'' before the conference opener against Texas-Pan American. ''Now you have a new record,'' he said. ''You're 0-0 again.''
While in New Jersey, the Pan American players planned a run across the river to see the sights of Times Square, and their hosts chatted about their fourth victory of the season. (N.J.I.T.'s men's team is 5-11 after an 88-81 loss at Longwood in Farmville, Va., on Tuesday.)
''At first it was like, Why are we going all the way to North Dakota and South Dakota? We're from New Jersey; we shouldn't have to go out there to get a game,'' Gerald said. ''But I've been playing these teams for four years now. We know the players. Before practice we'll be in the locker room and we'll talk about who won, who lost and by how much to compare ourselves to see what level we have to be at. And we pay special attention to the preseason rankings.''
She noted that the Highlanders were rated last this season. But for one night, at least, they were first, with a perfect league record despite the long road ahead.
In conclusion, Gerald said, ''I'd rather be in the Great West than no conference at all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shut out of a nearby league, N.J.I.T., in Newark, joined the Great West Conference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY) (B12)
Life in Division I and on the road hasn't been easy
 N.J.I.T. lost at Maryland, 89-50, last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GAIL BURTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B14) MAP: The men's basketball schedule takes the Highlanders away from Newark for 13 regular-season games as far as 1,950 miles away. (B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); SPORTS REVENUES (72%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



492 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Premier of India Receives Laurels Abroad and Brickbats at Home

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Few leaders are more respected globally than Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India. President Obama has described him as a historic figure, close friend and valued adviser. (So, for that matter, did President George W. Bush.) When Newsweekranked world leaders, Mr. Singh ranked first, winning praise for his modesty and incorruptibility. He was described as the ''leader that other leaders love.''
But if he is lauded overseas, Mr. Singh is now under attack at home, as critics blame his administration for indecision and inaction. His government is besieged by corruption scandals, runaway inflation and bickering among senior ministers. Amid the clamor, Mr. Singh has often seemed silent or aloof, even as his political enemies have portrayed him as the weak captain of a rudderless administration.
The loud criticism of Mr. Singh, who sits atop the coalition government led by the Indian National Congress Party, is partly the white noise of India's raucous democracy, and partly a reprise of old complaints. But the public perception of disarray is one reason the prime minister is expected to reshuffle his cabinet as early as Wednesday. 
Many analysts say Mr. Singh must recharge his administration to tackle major issues like food security, power supply and infrastructure, as well as to push through reforms on land and governance. More than that, they say, he must seize the moment to address larger, systemic failures in governing that foster corruption and could eventually undermine India's aspirations to become a global power.
For now, India's economy is sizzling, growing at roughly 9 percent a year. Many economists are forecasting a long boom that, if handled properly, could transform the nation. Many Indian entrepreneurs have learned to thrive despite governmental dysfunction, but few analysts believe India can thrive long term if the government maintains the status quo.
''There are so many uncertainties over the next four or five years that if you don't fix things while the going is good, it is going to be that much harder, later,'' said Pratap Bhanu Mehta, president of the Center for Policy Research, a leading independent research institute in New Delhi. ''Given the historic opportunity that India has, they are frittering away precious time.''
Mr. Singh, now 78, usually floats above the rancor of India's daily politics. Trained as an economist, he is considered a father of the economic reforms credited for setting off India's current boom. As finance minister, beginning in 1991, he dismantled socialist-era restraints and oversaw India's transition to a more open, market-based economy. By 2004, after Sonia Gandhi had guided the Congress Party back to power, she made Mr. Singh her surprise choice for prime minister.
Indeed, Mr. Singh's critics have long disparaged him as a caretaker prime minister beholden to Mrs. Gandhi, the Congress Party president, and to her son, Rahul Gandhi, the party's heir apparent as prime minister. Yet Mr. Singh proved otherwise, especially when Congress Party leaders and coalition allies wavered on a landmark civilian nuclear agreement with the United States. Mr. Singh threatened to resign if the Congress Party did not back him on the deal -- which it promptly did.
In the 2009 elections, opposition leaders in the Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., depicted Mr. Singh as India's weakest prime minister, but voters re-elected his Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government. When the new government took office, public expectations were high.
Now, 20 months later, the Congress Party has suffered setbacks in elections in the state of Bihar and is wounded by corruption scandals linked to the Commonwealth Games, the government's allotment of 2G telecommunications spectrum and other cases of official malfeasance.
Mr. Singh must no doubt operate at the mercy of the imperfections of India's coalition politics. But his cabinet has witnessed periodic infighting, while the prime minister himself has seemed slow to respond to certain crises, his critics say.
When Kashmir erupted in violence and demonstrations last summer, Mr. Singh waited for months before strongly intervening. And though he has not been personally linked to any scandals, he has been criticized for his inability, or unwillingness, to crack the whip on corruption and push through reforms.
''In spite of a clean personal image,'' said Nirmala Sitharaman, a B.J.P. spokeswoman, ''he is heading a government that is responsible for unbelievable amounts of treasury loss.''
Sanjaya Baru, a former spokesman for the prime minister, said the scandals had come as Mr. Singh's political influence already seemed diminished. He was forced to make a public reversal after making an overture to Pakistan that apparently exceeded the dictates of other Congress Party leaders. His signature achievement -- the nuclear deal -- was passed with a liability clause that may prevent many foreign nuclear suppliers from building power plants in India.
''He is damaged, he is quite damaged,'' said Mr. Baru, who is now editor of Business Standard, a financial newspaper. ''In the last year, the feeling is that he has not been able to do what he would like to do. That he is not his own man. And he has to overcome that for his own legacy.''
For weeks, the political gossip mill in New Delhi was filled with speculation that Mr. Singh might be pushed out, though most analysts say such a situation was never likely, given Mr. Singh's global stature and his standing in the country.
Mrs. Gandhi is widely perceived to be positioning her son as the party's prime ministerial candidate in 2014, but her commitment to Mr. Singh seems unshaken for the current term. Moreover, the prime minister's allies dispute any suggestion that he is a diminished figure.
''Externally, he may appear to be weak,'' said Jairam Ramesh, the environment minister. ''But internally, I can tell you, he is very clear in what he is doing.''
Harish Khare, the prime minister's spokesman, dismissed the criticism as ''democratic noise'' and noted that India's parliamentary system, as well as the traditions of the Congress Party, act to preclude any prime minister from acting with sole authority.
''The decision making is a collective process,'' he said. ''People expect the prime minister to be a president, of the United States presidential model. That's not Mr. Singh's style. His style is quiet leadership and delivering.''
Still, most analysts say Mr. Singh's government must restore its credibility with the public. On Monday, a group of corporate leaders and prominent citizens published an open letter calling on ''our leaders'' to confront corruption and institute reforms and accountability. Mr. Baru, the former spokesman, said reshuffling the cabinet could be a first step.
''Right now, everybody is saying he is doing nothing,'' Mr. Baru said. ''That is the real crisis. He needs a new team and a new agenda to establish that he is back in control.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India in New Delhi on Jan. 8. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAVEENDRAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NEW ISSUES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); SCANDALS (70%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (93%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SONIA GANDHI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011



493 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Last Christians Ponder Leaving Once Harmonious Oasis in Iraq

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND and DURAID ADNAN

 BODY:
HABBANIYA CECE, Iraq -- The last Christian man in town goes to church each morning to clean the building and to remember the past. Romel Hawal, 48, was born in this town in Anbar Province back when most of the population was Christian. Now, he said, his 11-year-old son knows no other Christians and has no memory of attending a church service.
''When my son swears, it is on the Koran, not the Bible,'' Mr. Hawal lamented.
His wife wants to leave town or leave the country, joining what is becoming an exodus of Christians from Iraq and throughout the Middle East. But Mr. Hawal said he felt an obligation to stay. And he found support from an unlikely source. 
''What gives me courage,'' he said, ''is that my Muslim brothers say, 'Don't leave.' ''
Here in Habbaniya Cece, residents talk about their town as an oasis of ethnic and religious harmony, where Christians and Muslims, Arabs and Kurds, Sunnis and Shiites all lived together for decades without friction. On one short stretch of rutted road near Mr. Hawal's church, Mary Queen of Peace, are an Assyrian church, a Sunni mosque, a Shiite mosque and another, older, Sunni mosque.
''This is the best place you will find in Iraq, because we have Christians and Muslims together,'' said the mayor, Sabah Fawzi, a Muslim, who stopped by the church to look in on Mr. Hawal. ''When my wife and daughters want something, sometimes they come to the church to ask God for it.''
But even on this street the buildings tell a more complicated story. The Assyrian church, St. George the Martyr, lies empty and hollowed out after an explosion in 2005. The Shiite mosque, Husseiniya Habbaniya, is a brand-new building but has no imam, or cleric, because of attacks against Shiites in the region, including a 2006 bombing that damaged the previous building.
These and other attacks shattered the mutual interdependence that had flourished for much of the past century, residents say. As Anbar Province became a stronghold for Al Qaeda in Iraq and other Sunni extremist groups, Christians and Shiites, feeling singled out, fled the area, until this town of 10,150 had only one Christian family, down from about 70 families before the American-led invasion of 2003. There were not enough Shiites to fill the big new mosque.
Khadem Owaid, the caretaker of the Shiite mosque, said people from the town had no part in the sectarian violence that swept through the province after 2003. ''The occupation destroyed everything,'' Mr. Owaid said. ''It was strangers who came and made trouble, trying to plant something between us. But we're living together now, there's no problem.''
At Mary Queen of Peace, Mr. Hawal is now caretaker not just to an old church but to a history. For most of the last century Habbaniya was an important hub for Assyrian Christians from around Iraq, with an educated elite and a unique dialect. Assyrian regiments fought alongside the British against Arab nationalists and the Axis powers, and the name Habbaniya Cece comes from the Habbaniya civil cantonment established by the British air force after World War I.
From their British counterparts, Assyrians here brought soccer to Iraq, said Archdeacon Emanuel Youkhana of the Assyrian Church of the East in Beirut, who was born in Habbaniya.
The Christian population began to drop in the 1970s and 1980s for economic reasons, the archdeacon and current residents said.
Mr. Hawal, who is Assyrian, switched to Mary Queen of Peace, which is Roman Catholic, after his brother became the caretaker, and remained after his brother moved to Baghdad and then to the Kurdistan region in northern Iraq. About half of Iraq's Christians have left the country since the invasion.
Mr. Hawal remembered Christmas celebrations in the garden at Mary Queen of Peace, staying up all night with his Muslim neighbors, both Arabs and Kurds.
''This is history for us,'' he said. ''I can still smell my friends here and my family here. Many friends now say I should leave, that they have work for me where they are, but I can't leave the church.''
Mr. Fawzi, the mayor, mourns the loss of his former neighbors. ''I would give my life for the life that used to be here to come back.''
The church building now is a monument to their absence, with its heavy wooden pews moved to the edges of a barren concrete floor. It has no heat or electricity. Next to it is a large field of garbage. ''When I come here I feel pain,'' Mr. Hawal said. ''I don't think it will ever be back again like it was, when we had a beautiful garden.''
Gone, too, are the sounds that once defined the town. ''The bell used to ring here, and the azzan from the mosque,'' said Nofah Ramah al-Dulaimi, 72, who runs a small clothing shop next to the church, referring to the Islamic call to prayer, which sounds five times a day.
Ms. Dulaimi said she used to keep a notebook of the names of all the families in town, Christian and Muslim, but she burned it two or three years ago, ''because I didn't want to remember.''
Like Mr. Hawal, she especially recalled celebrating Christmas together. Christian friends would remind her that the holiday was approaching, and she would bake cakes and pies for the occasion. But this year, she said, ''I didn't know when it was Christmas.''
Mr. Hawal said that his life had become culturally identical to those of his neighbors. At his construction materials shop he hangs a sign that says Allahu Akbar, or God is great, and the customers know him as Abu Yousif (father of Yousif) the Christian. The family prays at home, he said, but the rituals are incomplete without a priest.
The hardest part, he said, is raising his son here.
''Whenever I look at him my heart breaks,'' Mr. Hawal said. ''He is my closest friend. I just want him to live a normal life where he can practice the Christian traditions.'' If another Christian family would take care of the church, he said, he would leave town.
Even with security improving, he still worried about Yousif. Sometimes his wife calls him to say Yousif is missing, and Mr. Hawal has to track the boy down to the soccer field, where he is playing with Muslim friends -- enjoying the game that Assyrian Christians brought to Iraq, momentarily free of sectarian strife. But the sanctuary is fragile, Mr. Hawal knows.
''I am afraid to lose him,'' he said. ''I always tell him not to go to far places, and not to talk to any stranger. He is everything I have left.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A confessional at Mary Queen of Peace Church in Habbaniya Cece goes unused, and services are no longer held. The town's last Christian man acts as caretaker but aches for what has been lost. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEHAD NGA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); BOMBINGS (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (76%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TERRORISM (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



494 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Happy Visuals

 BODY:
A few Congressional Democrats and Republicans will be sitting next to each other on Tuesday night during the State of the Union address, straying from their glowering bunkers on opposite sides of the aisle. It's a lovely idea, intended to show that ideological divisions do not require personal rancor. But it is essentially a gesture to the cameras, and it should not obscure what remains a wide and fundamentally deep aisle between the parties.
Most Democrats, for example, believe it is important to provide health insurance to the uninsured. Republicans do not. Democrats believe in using the financial powers of the government to help revive the economy. Republicans believe instead in the power of tax cuts, primarily for the wealthy. Democrats believe regulation can help protect the environment and consumers, and help avert another financial collapse. Republicans have fought virtually every proposal to regulate. 
These debates are important and need to continue, wherever members of Congress choose to sit for the annual presidential address. There is nothing wrong with sharp ideological argument, as long as partisans do not seek to demonize their opponents and make their cases without ridicule and threats. If lawmakers really want to impress the American people with their new commitment to a joint sense of purpose, there is much they can do that is more vital than seating arrangements.
They can, for example, stop pushing stunt legislation. Wednesday's vote in the House to repeal health care reform was never intended to create law; it was simply an elaborate message to the Republican base. Any voters who thought it might actually build momentum toward repeal are likely to be disappointed. Republicans are welcome to propose a detailed alternative to the law and explain to the public how it would address matters like the uninsured, pre-existing conditions and lowering the deficit. Simply saying ''get rid of it'' is an act of provocation by one party against the other.
Democrats could lower the temperature in the Senate by agreeing to new rules that make it harder to filibuster, even if that could put them at a disadvantage should they slip back into the minority. The right to filibuster on the most significant issues must remain, but its abuse over the last four years to obstruct virtually every nomination or piece of legislation has severely damaged comity in the Senate. Many Democrats are trying to reduce filibusters, but to get there they may have to agree to let the Republicans propose more amendments to bills, under ground rules that would put limits on endless debates.
There should also be agreement among both parties and both houses that the Congressional Budget Office's estimates of a bill's cost are independent and legitimate and should not be rejected simply because they are politically inconvenient. Democrats have raged against the budget office in the past, and Republicans are doing so now because estimates show that the health bill would reduce the deficit by $143 billion in the first 10 years and more in the second 10 years. Selective acceptance of the most basic budgetary numbers produces cynicism in the electorate and divisiveness along the aisle.
There are many other Congressional actions that could also improve Washington's atmosphere: proposing specific cuts in spending instead of threatening to force the country into default if vague spending targets are not met; reducing the use of committee subpoenas as weapons of partisan attack; ending the ability of individual senators to hold up presidential nominations.
All these practices have been preserved over the years because they serve the political interests of lawmakers. Mingling together next week should at least give members of Congress an opportunity to begin discussing the national interest first.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); POLITICS (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TAX LAW (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



495 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Solar Firms Frustrated By Permits

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
Ken Button, the president of Verengo Solar Plus, a residential solar panel installer in Orange, Calif., says his company -- and his industry -- are being strangled by municipal red tape.
Fifteen Verengo employees, Mr. Button said, are dedicated solely to researching and tailoring permit applications to meet the bureaucratic idiosyncrasies of the dozens of towns in the company's market. And because most jurisdictions require applications to be submitted in person, Verengo employs two ''permit runners'' whose only job, Mr. Button said, is to ''take those permit packs and physically drive them around, stand in line, and pay the fees.''
''We have 50 different permitting authorities within 50 miles of our office,'' Mr. Button said. ''They all have different documentation requirements, different filing processes, different fee structures. It's like doing business in 50 different countries -- just in Southern California.'' 
His lament is being echoed by solar companies across the country.
In a new study, the industry estimates that the permit dance adds an average of $2,500 in costs to each installation, and streamlining things could provide a $1 billion stimulus to the residential and commercial solar power market over the next five years.
The analysis, which will be released publicly on Thursday, was prepared by one of the nation's largest solar leasing companies, SunRun, and endorsed by Verengo and at least a dozen other service and installation firms.
At a time when the Obama administration has vowed to redouble its efforts to create a green economy -- and, more recently, to remove regulatory roadblocks and promote growth -- companies that sell and install solar panel systems for residential and commercial customers are clamoring to be among the first in line.
''This is in essence a hidden tax on solar,'' Mr. Button said.
The industry's analysis, which has been shared with officials at the White House and the Energy Department, urges the federal government to create incentive programs that would nudge municipalities to adopt common codes, fee structures and filing procedures. Germany, Japan and some other countries that aggressively promote solar power have already used such streamlined permitting.
Administration officials said that they were seriously studying the issue, and that they planned to reveal initiatives and funding opportunities to address it.
The analysis suggests that permit standardization could make solar power -- still typically an expensive proposition even with various subsidies -- competitive for roughly half of the nation's 128 million homes within just two years. Today, only about 80,000 households have installed solar power in the United States.
The Energy Department has already begun tackling the lack of standardization in the solar industry, in part through its Solar America Board of Codes and Standards, established under the department's Solar Energy Technologies Program in 2007.
The solar ABC's, as the program is known, links policy makers, solar panel manufacturers, installers and consumers to create a central clearinghouse for information on solar building codes and best practices.
But the analysis urges the Obama administration to do more to encourage local officials to adopt the codes and procedures outlined by the solar ABC's -- including the creation of a prize program similar to the Race to the Top Fund, a $4.35 billion program created as part of the 2009 stimulus package to encourage and reward states for efforts to reform education.
Such a contest would provide grants to cities in specific solar states that show the most progress adopting standards. The paper also calls for the creation of a common online permitting tool and funds for local education and advocacy efforts aimed at further streamlining solar panel installation. It also seeks to standardize formulas for calculating permit fees, which can range from nothing in some communities to more than $2,000 in others.
''There's a huge range from one town to another,'' said Bill Condit, the head of operations for Trinity Solar, one of the largest solar providers in New Jersey. ''Basically there is no standard.''
Tales of wild variation -- and attendant frustration -- abound.
In Westminster, Colo., for example, solar installers say permit approval can take anywhere from three to six weeks and that the office is only open four days a week. In Broomfield, less than 10 miles from Westminster, applications are approved in a matter of days, but there are arcane stipulations about the thickness of underpanel sheathing and rack components.
Meanwhile, Erie, 12 miles north of Broomfield, has some of the most expensive permit fees in the state, but installers praise it for allowing permit packages to be submitted by e-mail.
In many ways, solar installers are simply dealing with the effects of the economic downturn, which has left some cities understaffed and sometimes turning to higher fees to help balance budgets.
Jay M. Trevino, the executive director of the planning and building agency for Santa Ana, Calif., which charges no fee for solar panel installations but typically takes four to six weeks to process permit applications, said that he sympathized with installers. But he added that his office had just one electrical engineer on staff to review plans -- and not just for solar panel installations, but any building project.
Still, he said solar permitting might benefit from a process similar to the handouts developed by his agency for homeowners seeking approval of projects like room additions or patio covers. If their projects adhere to the standards prescribed in the documents, permitting is more or less automatic.
Rob Cahill, manager of business development at San Francisco-based SunRun and the chief author of the company's white paper, said that as equipment and technology costs fell, stagnant ''soft costs'' associated with bureaucracy represented a larger portion of the overall installation price tag. Using data from Barclays Capital, Mr. Cahill estimated that local permitting and inspections processes added 13 percent to out-of-pocket costs for a homeowner installing solar panels in 2007.
Today, the SunRun report says, they add 33 percent -- and that could rise to 50 percent in a few years.
Some cities have been held out as examples of streamlined processes, including San Jose, Calif., and Philadelphia, , and also Portland, Ore., which offers online permitting.
Mr. Button of Verengo Solar says he would be happy to see some progress in one area -- shortening the time his team has to wait for an inspector to show up and look at an installation.
''When you call for an inspection, the best that you can get is, 'Well, we'll be out there either in the morning or in the afternoon.' '' Mr. Button said. ''I mean, even the phone company will give you a two-hour window.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Edgar Panduro, above, of Verengo Solar Plus, installing solar panels. Verengo has two employees whose job is to stand in line, pay fees and deliver solar permits. Below, a line in the Office of Building and Safety for Los Angeles County, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (73%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



496 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Higher Taxes Wouldn't End Some Deficits

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL; Amy Schoenfeld contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As state governments struggle with the fiscal damage caused by the recession, an income tax increase has become a rarely used remedy.
Governor after governor has publicly forsworn the prospect of raising income taxes, preferring to talk layoffs and cuts in programs and public union benefits. To cite prominent examples, Democrat Andrew M. Cuomo of New York and Republican Chris Christie of New Jersey have ruled out income tax increases.
Still, cracks have appeared in the no-tax-increase facade. In Illinois, Gov. Pat Quinn signed a law that temporarily raises the income tax rate to 5 percent, from 3 percent. New governors Mark Dayton of Minnesota and Jerry Brown of California have talked of enacting or extending tax increases.
Set aside for a moment the ever-charged argument about whether income tax increases spook the wealthy and consider this question: What would an increase in the personal income tax of a size similar to that of Illinois do for other fiscally troubled states? The New York Times examined this question in three embattled places, New York, California and New Jersey. 
In New York, an increase of two percentage points in the state income tax could raise about $9 billion and perhaps tip the state into surplus.
In California, a similar action could raise more than $13 billion, which would cover just a portion of that state's yawning $25 billion deficit.
In New Jersey, a jump of two percentage points in each of its income brackets could raise nearly $5 billion, which would probably leave the state with a $4 billion to $7 billion deficit. Under these assumptions, a household with the median income would pay at least $1,000 more a year in each of these states; a family making $200,000 would pay $4,000 more.
That an income tax increase of such a size could not close budget gaps in California and New Jersey underlines the vast challenge confronting these states. In California, Mr. Brown has proposed a deep, billion-dollar cut in higher education and $4 billion worth of cuts in services for the poor and unemployed. Even a substantial increase in its state income tax -- already much higher than in Illinois -- would only soften the harshest blows.
In Illinois, too, the income tax increase will not cover all the accumulated ills, from a multibillion-dollar deficit to a backlog of unpaid bills to its huge pension problems.
For other states, though, such a tax increase would go much further in addressing at least the short-term problems. In Arizona, for instance, legislators during the last 17 years repeatedly cut income taxes, opening an annual hole of nearly $2 billion. That sum, according to Mark Muro, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, approximates the size of the state's annual deficit without taking into account the recession-driven drop in revenue.
Matthew N. Murray, a professor at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, who has studied state fiscal problems for the Brookings Institution, said: ''In Illinois, the stark reality of the cataclysmic nature of their budget reality drove this income tax increase. But we're going to see more states raising taxes over the course of the next few years largely because there's only so much cutting you can do.
''It's getting to be a cold winter out there.''
The Tax Foundation, no friend of tax increases, noted recently that many states face gaping revenue shortfalls and forecast that ''2011 may be a year of dramatic tax increases.''
Many caveats attend this back-of-the-envelope exercise, not the least of which is that a comparison of California, New Jersey, New York and Illinois is inherently difficult. Illinois has a flat income tax rate (that is, residents regardless of income are taxed at the same 5 percent rate), while the other three have tax rates graduated by income, which is to say that a well-to-do couple pays taxes at a higher rate than does a working-class couple.
Illinois legislators, too, had the advantage of starting from a low base. The state's 3 percent income tax rate was among the lowest in the nation. And the decision of the governor and legislature to raise taxes still leaves Illinois on par with -- or slightly below -- most neighboring states.
The new Republican governor of Wisconsin has lampooned Illinois for raising taxes, and he has invited its businesses and residents to move north. But Wisconsin's income tax rate is higher over all than that of Illinois. Income tax rates in Wisconsin range from 4.6 percent to 7.75 percent, and someone earning $10,000 or more gets taxed at least as much as a resident of Illinois.
Note also that Illinois cannot balance its budget with the personal tax increase alone; the state has also raised its corporate income tax and capped how much spending can grow.
Another caveat is that an increase of two percentage points in the rate brackets would leave California with the highest upper-income tax rate in the nation. And New York and New Jersey would not be far behind.
The talk of such income tax increases, it should be emphasized again, is a thought exercise. It arises from an intriguing fact, however, that tends to set this recent recession apart from earlier downturns. In the recessions of 2001, 1990-91 and most forcefully after the deep dive of 1980-82, state and local governments cut deeply and made layoffs. Then a number of states and cities enacted income tax increases to repair the damage as the economy slowly turned upward.
Not so in this recession.
''In a typical recession, you'd look for tax increases this year, as states already have cut a lot,'' said Donald J. Boyd, a senior fellow at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York in Albany. ''But we're in quite an extraordinary antipublic union, antitax climate right now.''
A number of states, in fact, including Maryland, New Jersey and North Carolina, let taxes on high-income residents expire this year.
Oregon was one of the few to buck that trend. Last January, voters approved a temporary increase in taxes for individuals making more than $125,000 a year and on couples whose income exceeded $250,000. An editorial in The Wall Street Journal later stated that these rates caused thousands of upper-income residents to flee the state, but studies revealed that a large majority simply made less money, and so fell beneath the income cutoff for the higher rates.
What's clear is that almost everywhere the fiscal crisis of states has grown more acute. Rainy day funds are drained, cities and towns have laid off more than 200,000 people, and Arizona even has leased out its state office building. Tax revenue has rebounded a touch as the economy recovers, but for now that is more than offset by the expiration of federal stimulus aid.
So the forecast grows darker.
''It's the time of the once unthinkable, although it's difficult to imagine other states following in Illinois's footsteps with such a large increase,'' noted Lori Grange, deputy director of the Pew Center on the States. ''Whether there are tax increases or dramatic cuts to education and vital services, the crisis is bad, and there's a bit of denial about how much government can provide and what it takes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top: Pat Quinn of Illinois signed an income tax increase
Jerry Brown of California talked about one
and Chris Christie of New Jersey and Andrew Cuomo of New York said no. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SETH PERLMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
SLAVEN VLASIC/GETTY IMAGES
 DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (92%); TAX LAW (92%); INCOME TAX (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (78%); PAT QUINN (73%); ANDREW CUOMO (73%); MARK DAYTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



497 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: The Rise of Chinese Cheneys

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
BEIJING
When Deng Xiaoping made a landmark visit to the United States in 1979, he was seated near the actress Shirley MacLaine. According to several accounts that Ms. MacLaine confirmed this week, she told Deng rhapsodically about a visit to China during the Cultural Revolution. She described meeting a scholar who had been sent to toil in the countryside but spoke glowingly about the joys of manual labor and the terrific opportunity to learn from peasants.
Deng growled: ''He was lying.'' 
In that blunt spirit, let me offer a quick guide to some of the issues that we have put on the table during President Hu Jintao's state visit to Washington, at a time when Chinese-American relations are deeply strained and likely to get worse. American opinion tends to be divided between panda-huggers (''China is fabulous!'') and panda-muggers (''China is evil!''), but the truth lies between this yin and yang.
Trade is at the heart of the tensions, and China is clearly keeping its currency artificially low (and probably will continue to do so) in an effort to preserve jobs at home. This is destabilizing the international system -- but let's not exaggerate the impact on our own economy. Chinese goods mostly compete with products from Mexico, South Korea and other countries, and it is stealing jobs from those countries more than from America.
Trade figures also exaggerate China's exports. For example, China assembles iPhones, so their full value counts as Chinese exports. But, in fact, less than 4 percent of the phone's value is contributed by China, according to a study by the Asian Development Bank Institute. A greater share is contributed by Japan, Germany, South Korea and the U.S.
Aggressive territorial claims by Beijing are unnerving China's neighbors as well as Washington. My take is that China has a strong historical case in claiming the disputed islands in the East China Sea known as the Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. But China's claims to a chunk of the South China Sea are preposterous, and its belligerence is driving neighbors closer to America.
There's also a real risk that Chinese harassment of American planes and ships in international waters will spark a conflict by accident. The collision of Chinese and American military aircraft in 2001 led to a crisis that was defused only because then-President Jiang Zemin was determined to preserve relations with Washington. If such an incident occurred today, President Hu would probably be unwilling or unable to resolve the crisis.
Human rights are complex. Christians are persecuted less than they used to be just a few years ago, and the regime gives ordinary people much more freedom to travel and greater individual space than when I lived in China in the 1980s and 1990s.
That said, the Communist Party has been cracking down hard in the last few years on dissidents and ethnic minorities such as Tibetans and Uighurs. Its imprisonment of the great writer Liu Xiaobo, and its tantrum after he won the Nobel Peace Prize last year, damaged China's image.
Mr. Obama must speak up: How can one Nobel Peace Prize laureate be silent when meeting the man who imprisons the next?
Support for rogue states, such as North Korea, Iran, Myanmar, Sudan and Zimbabwe, makes conflicts and nuclear proliferation more likely. But, in fairness, China has much less leverage over these countries than Americans assume. And in the last couple of months, it has played a helpful role in both Sudan and North Korea.
Chest-thumping, especially from the military, is poisoning Chinese-American relations. Even Xi Jinping, a pragmatist who has been chosen to replace Mr. Hu as the next supreme leader of China, gave a nasty speech in October falsely accusing the United States of using germ warfare during the Korean War. In truth, Mr. Xi seems to admire the United States -- he just sent his only daughter to attend Harvard as an undergraduate -- but he apparently feels the need to join the nationalist parade.
President Obama started out very conciliatory toward China, but Beijing perceived that as weakness and walked all over him. Now Mr. Obama is tougher, as he must be.
My take is that China is going through a period resembling the Bush era in the United States: hawks and hard-liners have gained ground in domestic politics, and they scoff at the country's diplomats as wimps. China's foreign ministry seems barely a player.
Domestic concerns trump all else, partly because Chinese leaders are nervous about stability and about the delicate transition to Mr. Xi and his team two years from now. A Chinese poll has found that public satisfaction is at its lowest level in 11 years, and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao upset hard-liners by calling publicly for more pluralism (he was censored).
The upshot is that China-Firsters -- Chinese versions of Dick Cheney -- have a greater voice. Brace yourself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (67%); SMARTPHONES (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (65%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (65%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



498 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: In China, Economy Grew 9.8%, A Higher Rate Than Expected

BYLINE: By IAN JOHNSON; Zhang Jing contributed reporting in Beijing.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China's economy grew at a higher-than-expected rate of 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter and inflation eased only slightly last month, its National Bureau of Statistics said on Thursday. 
The agency said the economy grew at a rate of 10.3 percent for the full year, while the rate of inflation was 3.3 percent. Inflation fell in December to 4.8 percent, from 5.1 percent in November. G.D.P. growth rose from 9.6 percent in the third quarter and topped the 9.2 percent forecast by market analysts surveyed by Reuters.
The report did little to quell concern that China's economy was growing too rapidly. Analysts say that the numbers mean the government will have to further tighten monetary policy, which could lead the Chinese currency to appreciate against the dollar.
Chinese officials conceded that inflation was a result of rising food costs. Chinese citizens have been complaining of rising food prices, with some staples increasing 25 percent in the last few months.
''It's clear that the government policy stance has shifted'' from worrying about growth to controlling inflation, said Arthur Kroeber, head of the economics research company Dragonomics, based in Beijing.
Over the last few months, the government has taken incremental steps to tighten growth and curb inflation. But bank lending continues to surge, and on Thursday, the government reported that fixed-asset investment rose 23.8 percent, while property investment soared 33.2 percent.
Some analysts said that they thought one way to combat inflation would be to allow the Chinese currency to strengthen.
The American government has been pushing China to allow its currency, the renminbi, to appreciate, and it has been a major topic at the current visit of President Hu Jintao of China's trip to the United States.
Still, analysts said they do not expect immediate changes. The G.D.P. figures were not drastically different from predictions, and Chinese leaders will like want to gauge inflation further before acting, Mr. Kroeber said.
Seen broadly, the numbers offer another insight into China's changing economy. The government now seems able to avoid the boom-bust cycles, unlike in the 1980s and 1990s, that were prominent during the first decades of economic reforms.
''The cycles have flattened out,'' said Helen Qiao, an economist with Goldman Sachs, ''so the swings are not so dramatic.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (64%); MONETARY POLICY (54%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



499 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: YOU'RE THE BOSS; A Consultant Worth $170,000

BYLINE: By JESSICA BRUDER

 BODY:
Last week, we published a case study about the challenges facing First Quality Music, a family-owned supplier of stringed musical instruments, including guitars and mandolins, along with parts and accessories. Founded in 1970 in Louisville, Ky., the nine-employee company also makes its own banjos as well as game calls for hunters.
Co-owners Jeff and Eric Sullivan were hurtling toward bankruptcy and afraid of losing the company their father had started in 1970. Looking for a solution, they decided to spend $500 for an initial assessment from American Management Services, a consulting firm. When the assessment came in, the Sullivan brothers wondered whether they should pay $170,000 to have the firm develop a full turnaround plan. 
In the end, they decided that tough love from an outside expert was worth the expense. They signed on with American Management Services in March and were assigned to David Ryan, a senior consultant at the firm. For five months, Mr. Ryan made a couple of house calls each week to First Quality Music. With his guidance, the Sullivan brothers undertook a series of drastic changes.
They cut half of their staff and re-evaluated the roles of the workers who remained, assessing their skills in relation to the company's needs. Prior to the layoffs, Mr. Ryan said, ''they'd been treating the whole workforce like family.''
The Sullivan brothers also instituted regular financial reports and forecasts and sold off slow-moving inventory. ''They were used to making a lot of decisions based on intuition, and we moved them into a fact-based, data-driven mode,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''They turned out to be really good students.''
Finally, Mr. Ryan advised the brothers to renew their focus on the products that make them unique in the marketplace: high-end, artisanal banjos and hunting game calls that they build from scratch. As a result, the Sullivans began aggressively recruiting a network of third-party distributors, signing up 18 dealers for their banjos and increasing the company's capacity for manufacturing. They're also now distributing their hunting calls through Bass Pro Shops, the national chain of outdoor retailers.
In November and December, the Sullivan brothers broke even. They are optimistic about the future and pleased with their decision to hire a business consultant. They discussed the decision in a brief interview:
Q: With your company on the brink of bankruptcy, how did you scrape together the $170,000 consulting fee?
Jeff: What we did is we really worked hard on liquidating our stale inventory, ran some yard sales, different things like that to tidy up our stock. We had quite a bit of money sitting in inventory, but it wasn't working for us. So we made this effort to take a lot of that stuff and blow it out. We thought that would be a really good use of the inventory, to put it toward professional help.
Q: Were you worried about committing such heavy resources to bring in an outsider?
Jeff: Absolutely. It was a scary step, but we knew we had to do something. And we're still in the process of turning the company around. Our story has still not ended, but at least we're headed in the right direction with some good tools to use.
Q: How has your management style changed since last spring?
Eric: We just started looking at the business in a different way. You're not here to have fun. It's to make a living, you know. Nobody's really your friend. You've got to make money, and if you're doing something that's not making money, why are you doing it? It's just looking at everything with an objective point of view and doing our best to take the emotion out of it.
Q: How did your priorities change?
Eric: Now we're doing stuff that's going to help First Quality. We were always so focused on doing everything for everybody that we lost sight of what we needed to be doing for ourselves. You've got to do what's best for you. Now we're doing our own thing, and our shop's busy. We're taking it back.
Jeff: We got very distracted. There were a lot of things that we probably shouldn't have been doing, because there are other things that we can do really, really well. So went back into full-time banjo production. We have a 40-year legacy of doing that and we're world-renowned for it. We hadn't really leveraged that part of our business. We had only sold through our own company, First Quality Music. We're now working to try and get 50 to 60 dealers in the U.S. to carry our banjos. We're focusing back on what we do best.
And our banjos are doing phenomenal. We have over a $100,000 backlog that were building off now. Our game calls are absolutely doing wonderful, too. We have to build over 1,500 units in the next five weeks. We're just working, working, working like crazy right now.
Q: What happens next? Do you expect to make it through this economy?
Jeff: We don't know what the world is going to do, but we're optimistic that we're going to stay afloat. I was sure glad to get out of 2010 with a new focus for 2011.
Eric: Amen.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (91%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CASE STUDIES (89%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (85%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); RETAILERS (69%)

COMPANY: BASS PRO SHOPS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (52%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



500 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1788 words

HEADLINE: A Love Affair Cools

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA S. N. LEWIS

 BODY:
WINSOME BROWN, an actress and writer, and her husband, Claude Arpels, own an enviable apartment in TriBeCa worthy of a spread in an interior design magazine. The apartment -- which is, in fact, being considered for an issue of Elle Decor -- has maple floors, casement windows and all the character one would expect to find in a building that was once a factory.
But one of the features that many people in the city would pay a premium for is something the owners don't like: the fireplace.
''A wood-burning fire in the city is a ridiculous luxury -- we would never have put it in ourselves,'' said Mr. Arpels, grandson of one of the founders of Van Cleef & Arpels and the former managing partner of Netto Collection, a baby furniture company bought by Maclaren. ''In the city, it doesn't make sense to burn fires, because it's inefficient and it's polluting.'' 
Hard as it may be to believe, the fireplace -- long considered a trophy, particularly in a city like New York -- is acquiring a social stigma. Among those who aspire to be environmentally responsible, it is joining the ranks of bottled water and big houses.
''The smoke from a fire smells very nice,'' said Diane Bailey, a senior scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council in San Francisco. ''But it can cause a lot of harm.'' The tiny particles, she said, ''can cause inflammation and illness, and can cross into the bloodstream, triggering heart attacks'' as well as worsening other conditions.
Or as Starre Vartan, a 33-year-old blogger who goes by the name Eco-Chick, put it: ''Any time you are burning wood or cow dung, you'll be creating pollution. It's like junk food: if you do it once a month, then who cares? But if it's something you do every day, it's important that you mitigate it somehow. It's a hazard.''
Not surprisingly, the green community has been sounding the alarm for some time. For the last several years, TheDailyGreen.com, an online magazine, has advocated replacing all wood-burning fireplaces with electric ones; an article published in September by Shireen Qudosi, entitled ''Breathe Easier With a Cleaner Fireplace,'' argued that there is no such thing as an environmentally responsible fire: ''Switching out one type of wood for another is still use of a natural resource that otherwise could have been spared,'' Ms. Qudosi wrote. And last fall, an article on the Web site GreenBlizzard.com, ''Cozy Winter Fires -- Carbon Impact,'' called wood-burning fires ''a direct pollutant to you, your family and your community.''
Organizations like the American Lung Association are issuing warnings as well: the group recommends that consumers avoid wood fires altogether, citing research that names wood stoves and fireplaces as major contributors to particulate-matter air pollution in much of the United States.
Wood smoke contains some of the same particulates as cigarette smoke, said Dr. Norman H. Edelman, the chief medical officer for the American Lung Association, as well as known carcinogens like aldehydes; it has also been linked to respiratory problems in young children.
''We now know from lots of studies that wood smoke is very, very irritating,'' Dr. Edelman said. ''It contains a lot of irritating gases and it also contains damaging particulate matter. It's probably not good for anybody, and it's especially bad for anybody who has a chronic respiratory problem.'' So the association strongly advises people not to use the traditional fireplace, he said.
Certainly, there are many who consider this eco-overkill. In Greek mythology, fire is a gift from the divine, stolen from Zeus by Prometheus and handed over to shivering humanity. What could be more natural than sitting around a crackling fire on a winter night, at a campsite in the Berkshires or in a Brooklyn brownstone?
But growing concerns about the air pollution and health problems caused by smoke from wood fires are prompting a number of areas across the country to pass laws regulating them.
''A lot of municipalities are taking action,'' said Ms. Bailey, adding that the weather-based measures called burn bans are perhaps the most widespread restriction. When the weather is cold and the air is still, or pollution is high, the Bay Area in California, Puget Sound, Wash., Denver and Albuquerque are among the places with restrictions on residential wood-burning. These measures can be mandatory or voluntary, and can become more restrictive as air quality declines. So far, most of the wood-burning regulations tend to be out West. A few examples: Idaho offers tax incentives to people who replace uncertified wood stoves with ''greener'' ones; San Joaquin County in California forbids selling a home unless its wood stove is replaced with an E.P.A.-certified one; and Palo Alto and other municipalities in California prohibit wood-burning fireplaces or stoves in new construction.
Perhaps not coincidentally, sales of wood-burning appliances dropped to 235,000 in 2009 from 800,000 in 1999, according to the Hearth, Patio and Barbecue Association. And the Brick Industry Association, which promotes brick construction, reports that roughly 35,000 masonry fireplaces were installed in the United States in 2009, compared to 80,000 in 2005. Certainly those numbers reflect the economic slowdown, but they may also be affected by growing ambivalence to wood fires.
In any case, most fireplaces are used far too infrequently to cause any real damage to the environment, said Stephen Sears, the vice president of marketing and member services for the Brick Industry Association, voicing an opinion shared by some. In the East, he wrote in an e-mail, air pollution is at its worst in the summer, and in the West the regulations are an overreaction: ''Because it is not realistic to test each unique masonry fireplace in a laboratory'' to evaluate its emissions, he noted, ''it is easier for some municipalities to arbitrarily limit'' the use of all wood-burning fireplaces.
Karen Soucy, an associate publisher at a nonprofit environmental magazine, isn't swayed by that argument. She refuses to enter a home where wood has been burned, even infrequently.
Ms. Soucy, 46, blames fumes from a wood fire for sending her to the emergency room 25 years ago with a severe asthma attack. She had been staying at a friend's house in Stowe, Vt., for about a day, she said, when her lungs seized up. She was taken to a hospital in an ambulance, and got two shots of adrenalin; the doctors blamed her friend's cat.
''It was only later, working with a team of allergy doctors and pulmonologists, did we determine the culprit to be the wood-burning fumes from the various fireplaces,'' Ms. Soucy said.
Now her husband scouts out any place they go in advance, to be sure it's free of fireplaces, and she passes up countless dinners and parties. ''I'm the one who feels guilty for always being the one to decline invitations or for making people go out of their way to clean their home,'' she said. Even then, she added, ''the smell lingers on everything.''
FOR those who still want to build a fire, there are several ways to make it more environmentally friendly, experts say, including using an energy-efficient wood or pellet stove certified by the Environmental Protection Agency or retrofitting a fireplace with an insert (a device, usually made of iron or steel, that fits into the mouth of a fireplace and enables it to heat more efficiently).
Ms. Brown's and Mr. Arpels's solution was to install an energy-efficient wood stove in one of the three fireplaces at their farm in Chatham, N.Y. The surrounding countryside is filled with downed trees that would decompose anyway, said Ms. Brown, 38. And Mr. Arpels, 41, gets some exercise from splitting the logs.
''Basically we're not transporting things using oil from across the world to our house,'' she added. ''We think this is pretty good, environmentally.''
Wickham Boyle, 60, a writer and consultant for nonprofit arts organizations, installed a soapstone stove in her Hudson Valley house after a saleswoman explained that it had a catalytic combustor that converts smoke into water and carbon dioxide. Guests sometimes ask her if she feels guilty about burning wood, she said, but she recites a laundry list of the stove's high-efficiency features, explaining to them that the environmental impact is negligible due to the combustor, and that she mainly uses fallen wood cleared from her land or other properties nearby.
Not everyone can afford such a stove, which can cost upward of $2,000, including installation (Ms. Boyle paid $3,000 for hers).
Converting a wood-burning fireplace to gas can be just as expensive, and while electric fireboxes are cheaper -- just a few hundred dollars -- most consider them a poor substitute for a real fire, since there is no flame. So some people are simply using their fireplaces less often, or not at all.
Sally Treadwell, a 51-year-old public relations executive in Boone, N.C., said nothing makes her happier than building a fire on a cold winter night. But most of the time she doesn't, she said, because she feels too guilty about the damage it may do to the environment.
''We're in the Appalachian Mountains, and I know what pollution does to us all,'' Ms. Treadwell said. ''I very definitely limit fires. I'd have one every single winter night if I didn't have some guilt.''
When she does build a fire, she should use only seasoned dry wood, according to the E.P.A. Web site, because it burns hotter and releases less smoke. And the firewood for sale at the corner deli -- or even the wood supplied by a delivery service -- might not be seasoned, even if it is advertised as such, said David R. Brown, a public health toxicologist in Connecticut. To ensure that the wood is dry, he added, it should be stored for at least six months before being burned.
There is also the fire-building technique to consider. Most people don't realize that the fire should be kept hot (with high, visible flames) for the first 20 minutes, Mr. Brown said, so that the chimney will heat up and the smoke will disperse; otherwise, the smoke tends to drift into the house, causing an increased health hazard.
Even the greenest of the green, though, sometimes throw caution to the winds when it comes to wood fires. Sue Duncan, a 52-year-old landscaper in Austin, Tex., uses native drought-tolerant plants in her landscaping work and hasn't thrown away an aluminum can since 1974, she said. She has installed a programmable thermostat and fluorescent lighting in her 1,600-square-foot house and has a rainwater collection system out back.
But somehow, she still hasn't gotten around to retrofitting her fireplace. Every time she builds a fire, it causes ''inner conflict,'' she said. ''It's a guilty pleasure.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRAND NEW IMAGES/GETTY IMAGES)(D1)
ADAPTING: Wickham Boyle and her husband Zachary Minor, top, use a soapstone stove
above, Sally Treadwell, with her daughters Natalie, 18, on the floor, and Emma, 14, rarely makes a fire
right, Winsome Brown and Claude Arpels use a wood stove at their country house. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
FREDERICA GEORGIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RANDY HARRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WRITERS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); MAMMALS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (65%); HEART DISEASE (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%)

COMPANY: VAN CLEEF & ARPELS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (56%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (56%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



501 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Newly Released

BYLINE: By SUSANNAH MEADOWS

 BODY:
The publishing industry has had its share of woes, but writing books, apparently, has not lost its allure. This month a television producer, a short-story writer, a film critic and a screenwriter whose first draft was her journal all deliver their debut novels. Bradford Morrow has been at it longer, writing both fiction and poetry. And then there's Alice Hoffman, who clocks in with her 28th (!) work of fiction.
A STRANGER ON THE PLANET By Adam Schwartz 291 pages. Soho Press $24. 
This novel is about the dysfunctional Shapiros: needy Seth (who at 12 readies his divorced mom for a date by helping with the ''girdle-and-brassiere contraption''); his twin sister, Sarah; their Orthodox brother, Seamus; and their damaged mother and absent father. That the novel lives in the small moments makes sense, since Mr. Schwartz published several parts as stories first. Those scenes can be awkward, poignant or both. As a boy Seth fantasizes about his father finding his body if he were to drown: ''Would he collapse to the ground in sorrow and regret? Or would he turn my body over with his toe, studying it disapprovingly?'' Still a virgin at 19, he proposes having sex with a girl who agrees, ''as a friend.'' On the day of his mother's funeral he embraces his brother, and they end up swaying to John Coltrane. In the end Seth realizes, ''We'd be the happiest family in the world if no one remembered anything.''
BROOKLYN STORY By Suzanne Corso 323 pages. Gallery Books. $23.99.
Young Italian-Americans in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, in the late 1970s fall in with the mob to become men. As familiar as the story is, this novel escapes the formula with a true female voice; Ms. Corso says in her acknowledgments she began writing down her story as a teenager. The book's Samantha Bonti is 15 when she meets Tony at the neighborhood street fair. ''No one was supposed to be that handsome,'' she thinks. He seems different from other guys, and not only because his hair has no oil in it. But he ends up smashing her face just like the rest of them. Maybe it's because we don't usually get our Mafia fix from the point of view of a young girl who wants to be somebody, but this Brooklyn story overcomes even the numerous times when Samantha's heart is said to ''skip a beat.''
GIDEON'S WAR By Howard Gordon 320 pages. Touchstone. $24.99.
What if the United States government blew up its own high-value property and pinned the terrorist act on Muslim extremists as an excuse to go to war? ''Gideon's War'' is not only a gift to conspiracy theorists, but also to anyone with pedal-to-the-metal taste. By Page 17 a man's been shot in the face, a presidential envoy -- the Gideon of the title -- learns that his brother's been taken hostage, and a dirty old politician has hit on a young woman. And we're off! Staged in a fictional Middle East country whose waters host a key American oil rig, this thriller feels as if it were written by someone with a lot of practice behind the wheel because it was. Mr. Gordon was an executive producer of ''24,'' and before that a writer for '' The X-Files.'' The book is so jammed with action, there's even a literal cliffhanger (fingers and rock included). To Mr. Gordon's credit you don't notice that's a cliche until your own fingernails are gone.
PLAYDATE By Thelma Adams 291 pages. Thomas Dunne Books. $23.99.
Like a chick-lit version of Tom Perrotta's ''Little Children,'' Ms. Adams's debut novel chronicles the action among stay-at-home types. Lance is an unemployed weatherman who readies the cookies and milk for his 10-year-old daughter; after his wife awakens him one morning in an effort to get pregnant again, he feels like ''an avocado molested by a budget shopper.'' The poor guy finds comfort soon enough in the contorted tantric pose of his daughter's friend's mom, Wren. Although Ms. Adams -- the film critic for Us magazine -- ribs her characters and their Aveda Shampure-using, nacho-soy-chip-eating ways, she's not without love for them. In the end, she even saves them from their bored, lame selves.
THE DIVINER'S TALE By Bradford Morrow 311 pages. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt/Otto Penzler. $26.
Suppose you're walking in the woods and you come across the dead body of a young girl, hanging from a tree. You return hours later with the cops, but there's no trace of her or any evidence that someone else has been there. By the time Cass, a diviner who's had disturbing visions before, returns with a policeman a second time, she has started to doubt what she saw. Then the officer emerges from behind some brush holding a long, light brown snake. ''Let's get you out of here,'' he tells her quietly. And here I hand it over to the professional, writing in the voice of the woman: ''His revolver was drawn, I saw. He held it in his right hand pointed earthward. The snake was a rope.'' Like that, Mr. Morrow quietly drops clues as he guides you deeper into the mystery of the dead girl -- and into Cass's own mind.
The Red Garden By Alice Hoffman 270 pages. Crown. $25.
This book of linked stories is a backstage pass to the making of a single town's legends. We're there at the fictitious founding of Blackwell, Mass., where a handful of families have trudged west from Boston into the mid-18th-century wilderness. They survive their first winter in the Berkshire mountains off milk stolen from a hibernating bear. Each story brings a new era. In 1816 a little girl is swallowed by the nearby river. A generation later some people from town catch a glimpse of her by the water before she vanishes again. By the 1940s the town is celebrating its founding with a play about a local 6-year-old ghost who says, ''I'll never leave you.'' In the last chapter the drowned girl shows up again (as promised). By now she's dismissed as pure folklore, ''only a story, nothing more,'' yet she retains a certain power. A father can't help thinking of the ghost as he dives into the river to save his own child.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (74%); POETRY (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); CHILD ABUSE (67%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (63%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Stranger on the Planet, A (Book); Brooklyn Story (Book); Gideons War (Book); Playdate (Book); Diviners Tale, The (Book); Red Garden, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



502 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Wells Fargo Posts 21% Profit Gain

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
7:28 p.m. Updated
Wells Fargo, one of the nation's biggest banks and the largest consumer lender, said Wednesday that its fourth-quarter earnings rose 21 percent, helped by an improving loan portfolio and withdrawals from its capital reserves.
The bank, which is based in San Francisco, earned $3.4 billion, or 61 cents a share, in the fourth quarter, up from $2.8 billion, or 8 cents a share, in the year-earlier period, matching analysts' forecasts. For the year, Wells Fargo reported net income of $12.36 billion in 2010, compared with $12.28 billion in 2009. 
The bank's full-year revenue fell to $85 billion, however, from $88.7 billion in 2009, as new federal regulations limited the overdraft fees that banks can charge on checking accounts.
Still, compared with the third quarter, the bank generated revenue growth in roughly two-thirds of its businesses.
''As the U.S. economy showed continued signs of improvement, our diversified model continued to perform for our stakeholders, as demonstrated by growth in loans and deposits, solid capital levels and improving credit quality,'' John G. Stumpf, the bank's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.
Despite its heavy hand in the lending industry, which has been hit by losses for three years, Wells Fargo has quietly emerged from the financial crisis as one of the nation's strongest banks.
The report from Wells is an important step for the bank as it looks to increase its dividend, which has been stuck at 5 cents for nearly two years.
When the financial crisis struck, Wells, JPMorgan Chase and other industry giants cut dividends as they moved to bolster their capital. Now, two years later, banks are eager to give money back to shareholders - if the government will let them. The Federal Reserve must first complete a second round of bank stress tests, whose results are expected in March.
JPMorgan, which last week reported a $17 billion profit for 2010, has said it hopes to raise its dividend as much as a dollar in the coming months.
Wells Fargo has been more coy about its plans. Mr. Stumpf, in a conference call with investors, said he was eager to raise the dividend.
But Brian Foran, a senior bank analyst with Nomura Securities International, noted, ''They historically have been cagey about saying anything before they know it.''
The bank's dividend outlook has improved on the back of its lending operation.
Wells Fargo picked up new borrowers in the fourth quarter, particularly businesses, and it released $850 million from its reserves, thanks to the improving loan portfolio.
The bank's provision for credit losses was cut nearly in half, to $2.99 billion in the fourth quarter from $5.91 billion a year earlier.
Shares of Wells Fargo fell 68 cents, or 2.1 percent, on Wednesday, closing at $31.81.
Although the bank's mortgage shop reported a 19 percent drop in income from 2009, it originated $128 billion in home mortgages in the fourth quarter, up from $94 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009.
''You can see the momentum building as economic activity is returning,'' said Marty Mosby, a managing director at Guggenheim Partners.
Yet Wells Fargo still faces problems surrounding its mortgage portfolio.
On Jan. 7, the highest state court in Massachusetts ruled that Wells Fargo and US Bancorp had wrongly foreclosed on two homes, because they could not prove they owned the mortgages. Regulators in all 50 states have begun investigations into whether hundreds of thousands of foreclosures made in recent years were invalid.
Some banks temporarily suspended foreclosures last year during the controversy. Wells Fargo officials say they have largely avoided the documentation problems and have decided not to halt foreclosures.
''At the end of the day, the litigation will be less of an impact on Wells Fargo than people fear,'' said Lawrence Remmel, a partner at the law firm Pryor Cashman, where he leads the firm's banking and financial institutions group.
Wells Fargo has also moved to distance itself from litigation over soured loans that banks securitized and sold to investors. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage finance companies, are demanding that Wells Fargo and other big banks buy back loans sold at the height of the mortgage bubble.
In the fourth quarter, the bank recorded a $464 million provision for future mortgage repurchases, up from $370 million in third quarter.
But the bank's chief financial officer, Howard I. Atkins, said Wednesday that Wells Fargo did not plan to settle its dispute with Fannie and Freddie. Mr. Atkins said the bank's mortgage securities were of higher quality than those generated by its competitors.
''This is a diminishing issue, not an increasing issue,'' Mr. Atkins said in an interview.
Eric Dash contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Online Correction: January 19, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the amount in mortgage loans that Wells Fargo originated in the fourth quarter of 2009. It was $94 billion, not $94 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The bank, which is based in San Francisco, says it hopes to increase its dividend, which has been 5 cents for nearly two years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); EXECUTIVES (51%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: JOHN G STUMPF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



503 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts Slowed Sharply in December

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Groundbreaking on new homes fell more than expected in December to its lowest in over a year, suggesting the battered housing sector remained a roadblock to a recovery. 
Housing starts in the United States dropped to an annual rate of 529,000 units, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday, down from November's 553,000 and well below forecasts of about 550,000 in a Reuters poll. At current levels, starts account for less than a quarter of their boom-time peaks.
At the same time, building permits soared, a hint of optimism about demand. Permits jumped 16.7 percent to 635,000, far above a median forecast of 560,000 and the biggest jump since June 2008. Changes to state building codes that took effect in January in California, Pennsylvania and New York may have caused builders to rush to seek permits in December, the report said. For example, permits surged 80.6 percent in the Northeast.
Jennifer Lee, senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, called the housing report ''very disappointing.''
Some builders went ahead with projects in December to beat the change in building codes, Ms. Lee said.
''Look for a big retracement in January permits,'' she said ''which in turn, is not good news for starts.''
Housing was at the epicenter of the worst financial crisis in generations, which began when banks started to take a hit from rising defaults in the mortgage sector in the summer of 2007.
Nevada, Arizona and Florida are among the hardest-hit states.
''You still have this nagging worry that if housing remains in this kind of uncomfortable equilibrium, it could drag down the consumer and the economy,'' Cary Leahey, economist at Decision Economics in New York, said.
What little rebound has occurred in housing thus far has been erratic. Applications for home mortgages increased last week as interest rates dipped to their lowest level in a month, an industry group said on Wednesday.
The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity rose 5 percent in the week ended Jan. 14.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



504 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Approaching Civility (if Perhaps Falling Short of Eloquence) in Debate

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Webster-Hayne debate it was not. But in the end, the floor fight over the bill to repeal the health care overhaul -- predetermined both to pass the House and ultimately fail to become law -- by and large demonstrated the ability of Republicans and Democrats to debate a public policy matter civilly.
The exceptions and the more openly provocative statements came mostly from the Democratic side. Late Tuesday night, Representative Steve Cohen, Democrat of Tennessee, denounced Republican talking points on the law as akin to Nazi propaganda. 
''They say it's a government takeover of health care, a big lie just like Goebbels,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''You say it enough, you repeat the lie, you repeat the lie, you repeat the lie and eventually, people believe it. Like blood libel. That's the same kind of thing.''
If the overall tone was more subdued than it was over the last two years as the health care bill made its way through Congress and became a flash point in national politics, the substance of the debate the last two days remained so polarized that it often seemed as if members were talking about two different laws. Depending on your side of the aisle, it will either raise taxes, increase unemployment and sever the patient-doctor relationship or help heal the economy, reduce the deficit and save lives.
Largely avoiding phrases like ''job killing'' and rarely raising their voices, Republicans, mindful of the political penalty they might face for excessive acrimony, politely laid out their case, arguing that the law imposed too many mandates, was unconstitutional and cost too much.
Representative Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee said the law ''means well,'' but simply did not deliver. Representative Joe Wilson of South Carolina, who once yelled ''You lie'' at President Obama, argued in monotones about the role of the National Federation of Independent Business.
Representative Joe L. Barton, the Texan last seen apologizing to BP for the way it was treated by the White House over its oil spill, opened his remarks by invoking Representative Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona and appealed to his colleagues to vote for the repeal in the language of a formal dinner invitation.
''We all miss her and wish her the very best,'' he said of Ms. Giffords, who was critically wounded in the shooting rampage in Tucson, adding later, ''Please vote to repeal this law today.''
In contrast, Democrats, now in the position of defending a law that contributed to their loss of control of the House, at times punched at the sky, narrowed their eyes and spoke angrily about Republican efforts, however futile, to undo a law they said was already helping thousands of Americans.
But while animated and sometimes passionate, both sides for the most part avoided personal attacks of the sort that was condemned after the Arizona shootings. Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, enumerated what he said were the advantages of the law, including the extension of health insurance to employees in small businesses and the coverage of children up to age 26 under their parents' plan, something Republicans said they would continue.
Repealing the law would mean health care costs would rise ''faster than a speeding airplane, faster than Superman!'' he concluded, to a smattering of applause.
On Tuesday, when the debate commenced on the floor, Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, Democrat of Texas, said: ''This bill has been vetted. This bill is constitutional and it protects the constitutional rights of those who ask the question: 'Must I die? Must my child die because I am now disallowed from getting insurance?' ''
The debate over the bill, which passed 245 to 189, also gave a chance for new members to speak on a policy matter for the first time on the floor of the House, fittingly, perhaps, on an issue that helped put some of them there.
Representative Trey Gowdy, a freshman from South Carolina, cited the Constitution -- as did a few other freshmen Republican members -- as an impediment to the law, and said lawmakers should reject ''generational embezzlement.'' Representative Jeff Duncan, also a new Republican member from South Carolina, summed up the law as the ''job killing, socialistic and out of touch health care bill.''
Todd Rokita, a Republican freshman from Indiana, in his first statement on the floor, said, ''Health care is not a right,'' as Representative Mike Pence, also of Indiana, looked on proudly, like a father who just saw his son take off down the street without training wheels. Another Republican freshman, Representative Billy Long of Missouri, denounced the law simply as a ''big block of cheese.''
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, who is flirting with presidential aspirations, called the law a ''jewel of socialism'' and said the new Republican majority would not stop ''until we repeal a president.''
For each Republican who used even mildly heated language, there were Democrats, bruised by the public relations beating their law has taken, ready to hit back harder. Representative James P. Moran of Virginia, his voice shaking with rage, called the bill to repeal health care ''the height of hypocrisy,'' and Representative John Larson, Democrat of Connecticut, said it was ''not worthy of the party of Lincoln or the Tea Party.''
Representative Anthony Weiner, Democrat of New York, suggested a more festive response. ''I want to advise people watching at home who are playing that now-popular drinking game -- you take a shot whenever the Republicans say something that's not true -- please assign a designated driver,'' he said. ''This is going to be a long afternoon.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a news conference Wednesday, House Democrats discussed the impact of health care repeal on minority communities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); POLITICS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); SHOOTINGS (64%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); OIL SPILLS (50%)

PERSON: STEVE COHEN (71%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (57%); JOE WILSON (56%); MARSHA BLACKBURN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (71%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



505 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: House Hunting in ... Portugal

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
A TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT IN AN 18TH-CENTURY BUILDING WITH RIVER VIEWS IN LISBON
1.1 MILLION EUROS ($1.48 MILLION)
This apartment, one of six in its 18th-century building in the Lapa district, was restored three years ago using antique materials salvaged from other historic buildings. The apartment has prime views of the Tagus River and the dark red 25 de Abril Bridge, which is often compared to the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco. Other windows in the apartment, set on the third floor, overlook historic buildings and Lisbon's cobbled streets.
The entryway provides access to a bathroom and a galley kitchen, which has a gas stove and brushed steel hardware and countertops. The living/dining room is 750 square feet in size, with a painted wood ceiling and recessed lighting. The dining room has a chandelier and wide-plank floors. 
Both bedrooms have built-in window seats and closets, as well as en-suite baths; the master bath is tiled with pink marble. Walls in both rooms are lined in antique tile.
The building has an elevator and a marble staircase with ornately wrought railings. This apartment shares the third floor with another unit.
Lapa is one of Lisbon's most affluent areas, known for its well-preserved architecture. Because it sits on top of a hill, it survived floods that submerged much of the city in the 18th century. The neighborhood is home to several embassies, as well as a thriving arts community. The upscale shops and nightclubs of the Chiado district are a five-minute walk; the airport is a 10-minute drive.
MARKET OVERVIEW
The property market has been buffeted by the global economic downturn, according to Paul Houston, who manages Portuguese operations for the Barcelona-based real estate firm Lucas Fox. Prices have been flat over the past year, and tight lending restrictions continue to suppress the market, he said.
In Lisbon, the average price per square meter is about 2,100 euros ($260 per square foot, at 0.75 euros to the dollar). Upscale apartments in Lapa run about 4,500 euros per square meter; this apartment, priced at 7,500 euros per square meter, is much more expensive because of its restored historic building and views of the river, according to the listing agent.
Georgina Richards, a sales associate with the London real estate company Knight Frank, says prices have fallen 30 percent in the western Algarve region, and slightly less than that in the central Algarve; both are popular second-home destinations along Portugal's southern coast. She says that while foreign sellers tend to lower prices in response to market conditions, Portuguese buyers are more likely to stick to their prices and wait for the market to recover.
WHO BUYS IN PORTUGAL
In Lisbon, buyers come from ''throughout the English-speaking world,'' including Britain, the United States and Canada, said Goncalo Figueira, a lawyer with Neville de Rougemont & Associados, a law firm in Lisbon that specializes in advising foreigners on real estate transactions.
British, German and Scandinavian buyers are common in the Algarve, Ms. Richards said.
BUYING BASICS
Foreign buyers must apply for a Portuguese tax number, Mr. Figueira said. During this process, they must have a Portuguese resident acting as their representative; Mr. Figueira says that law firms, accounting firms and property management firms often perform this service, for a fee.
Transaction costs include a 6 percent transfer tax, according to Nuno Durao, a senior sales consultant for International Realty Group Christie's Great Estates in Lisbon. Buyers also pay 250 to 300 euros for deed registration, as well as legal fees of about 3,000 euros. He says the real estate agent's commission ranges from 3 to 5 percent, and is paid by the seller.
WEB SITES
Official Portugal tourism site: visitportugal.com
Lisbon Tourism Association: visitlisboa.com
The Portugal News: theportugalnews.com
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
Portuguese; Euro (1 euro = $1.34)
TAXES AND FEES
A municipal tax equal to 0.5 percent of the assessed value is charged annually, according to Mr. Durao. Maintenance is 70 euros a month.
CONTACT
Nuno Durao, International Realty Group Christie's Great Estates, 011-351-210-305-022; irgportugal.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); RETAILERS (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: KNIGHT FRANK LLP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (51%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) PORTUGAL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



506 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Players Take Dispute to Congress

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With a potential lockout just weeks away, more than a dozen former and current N.F.L. players donned pinstripe suits Wednesday and took their talking points to Capitol Hill, where they told lawmakers their side of an increasingly acrimonious labor dispute.
The meeting with Congress was the latest in a series of high-profile jabs by the players, the league and the owners, whose collective bargaining agreement expires March 3. With the Super Bowl less than three weeks away, both sides are spending more time pleading their cases in public while football remains in the spotlight. 
A lot is riding on a deal being struck, which is why the league and its players have taken their case to Washington. Football is an $8 billion business that seeps into many corners of American life, employing thousands of workers on the 32 teams and at their stadiums, as well as in the hospitality, television and advertising industries.
''I know that this Congress in particular is concerned with jobs, jobs, jobs, so those are the three things that many of the newly elected members ran on,'' said Pete Kendall, who retired from the N.F.L. in 2008. A lockout, he said, will ''affect not only just the players, and just the owners, but also the people who attend the games, the people who work in service of the games.''
While both sides agree that a lost season would have an economic impact, the league and players remain far apart on avoiding a lockout. The league wants to expand the season to 18 games and to retain a larger portion of the revenue now shared with the players to offset the weaker economy, rising payrolls and other risks.
The players are unwilling to accept the league's request for an additional $1 billion from the revenue pool because the league is profitable and the owners will not open their books to scrutiny. The players want to maintain the current system, which gives them almost 60 percent of the league's revenue after the first $1 billion, which goes to the owners.
If the deadline passes without a deal, the players could lose their health-care benefits, free agents would be unable to negotiate new contracts and college players trying to enter the league might receive smaller signing bonuses. Coaches and other team employees, as well as hotels and restaurants, could be affected.
Adding to the urgency, there has not been a large, formal bargaining session since before Thanksgiving. Each side has accused the other of an unwillingness to come to the table. Jeff Pash, the league's chief negotiator, said Tuesday at an owners meeting that the players were seeking legal solutions to economic problems.
But both sides continue to talk. On Wednesday, DeMaurice Smith, the executive director of the players union, was in New York to talk with Roger Goodell, the N.F.L. commissioner. Goodell, however, has said several times that there is a difference between meeting and making progress.
The wide gap between the two sides has prompted league officials and players to increase their visits to the Capitol. They may, however, be mostly window-dressing. The players, for instance, said they would call on, among others, Heath Shuler, Democrat of North Carolina, and Jon Runyan, Republican of New Jersey, the only two former N.F.L. players in Congress.
Lawmakers also say they are reluctant to get involved.
''The owners and players are both literally and figuratively big boys and do not need Congress to referee every dispute for them,'' Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who is the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said in a statement.
The players insisted that they did not expect Congress to come to their defense. Rather, they wanted to remind lawmakers that they oppose a lockout and that lawmakers have sway over the N.F.L., which has been granted legislative privileges, including an antitrust exemption to negotiate television contracts.
''We have the greatest game in America right now, so to lose ground and lose market share over this just doesn't make sense to me,'' said Jeff Saturday, an Indianapolis Colts center and a member of the union's executive committee. ''This is for the future of our game. It's important to me that I leave it better than I found it, so that's why we're here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pete Kendall, left, who retired from the N.F.L. in 2008, and Colts center Jeff Saturday were among those who visited lawmakers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (75%); THANKSGIVING (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



507 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: What Do You Make of This Outfit?

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
CALVIN TRAN was darting around his shop on Mott Street the other day, fiddling with a fan-shaped slice of wool. ''You can wear this as a poncho, a dress, a kimono or a hooded cape,'' Mr. Tran said as he pulled the fabric over his head. With a high-pitched laugh, he added, ''See, when you go to Iraq, it becomes a burqa!''
That puckish performance is surely known to viewers of ''The Fashion Show'' on Bravo, where Mr. Tran routinely shows off his antic personality. It was certainly familiar to Renita Bernard, a longtime client who stopped at the shop last week to try another of his designs, a swath of hammered silk that mutated, in Mr. Tran's hands, from a knee-length skirt to a maxi, and from a one-shoulder Amazon dress to a lavishly draped Aphrodite gown. Witnessing its transformation, Ms. Bernard was charmed. ''Four pieces for one,'' she exclaimed. ''That works for me.'' 
Mr. Tran's sartorial shape-shifters are finding echoes these days at every level of the marketplace, from the playful variations offered by populist outfitters like American Apparel, Target and Victoria's Secret to the more rarefied styles of Albert Elbaz of Lanvin, who unveiled a resort collection last summer highlighted by daytime chemises that reversed for evening to ruffled chiffon or tulle.
Variable as they are, most such looks are short on what merchants call hanger appeal, their multiple personalities tucked away inside mysterious folds. But to those in the know, they function like soft-skinned transformers that can be hitched, tied, buttoned or draped to take on a variety of forms and uses. In a value-driven economy, fashions that can be tweaked to travel from workplace to gym and to cocktails are certainly compelling. And this trend, once perceived as a novelty at best, is attracting a new generation of light-traveling frequent fliers and canny frugalistas.
''If I can wear a dress three ways, I'm like, 'O.K., I just got my money's worth,' '' said Jeannie Herlihy, a fan of convertible knitwear from JNBY, the Chinese retail giant with an outpost in downtown Manhattan. What's more, the clothes are forgiving. ''If you're having a fat day, it covers all the right places,'' said Ms. Herlihy, who wore a wrap cardigan with adjustable ties throughout her recent pregnancy. ''If it doesn't, you can always turn it upside down.''
JNBY introduced multipurpose pieces about five years ago, with a handful of items priced from about $200 to $500. The trend ''started as a test for us,'' said Michelle Wohlers, the company's brand manager for the United States, but proved successful enough to warrant expanding the category by 5 to 10 percent each year.
But practicality is just part of the draw. The appeal of these clothes is ''not about money,'' Mr. Tran said. ''People are buying them to play with. They want to push their creativity.'' These days, he added, ''everybody wants to be a stylist.''
Amen. Their fashion sensibilities shaped by reality shows, aspiring Rachel Zoes are paying $80 for one of Rachel Pally's five-in-one convertible dresses for Target, which can with a few deft adjustments morph from a halter or swingy skirt to a strapless party frock. Shoppers have also embraced Alexander Wang's racy biker jacket with detachable sleeves; Norma Kamali's Scarvey, a shawl with sleeves that can double as a cardigan; and Rachel Roy's four-way coat ($189), which zips apart to stand alone as a vest, a sleeveless dress or a cropped jacket.
Donna Karan recently issued a weighty jersey ''infinity dress,'' which transforms from a cap-sleeve sheath to a halter dress or one-shoulder gown. Within days of its being posted on the company's Web site this month, 100 pieces were sold, a spokeswoman said, never mind the $1,000 price.
Aloha Rag near TriBeCa sold out of a rugged-looking parka that turns into a dress. Victoria's Secret will follow its best-selling multiway jersey dress with a wide-leg, disco-era jumpsuit. And come spring, Gary Graham, a designer and merchant with a downtown following, will offer a skirt that does double duty as a shirt or culotte, a successor to his best-selling $354 skirt/dress, ruched like an Austrian curtain.
Shades of Edie Beale, for sure. But then, mutable fashions are not exactly groundbreaking, having had precursors on international runways. Multiway styles were paraded by avant-gardists like Junya Watanabe, who designed a beefy sweater that could be worn upside down, and Hussein Chalayan, who made waves more than a decade ago by unveiling a multitiered table that collapsed into a skirt.
Convertible looks have turned up in popular fiction as well. Cayce Pollard, the preternaturally intuitive cool-hunter of William Gibson's novel ''Pattern Recognition,'' packs into her carryall a generic tube that can become, as occasion demands, a skirt or steamy evening dress, an item suited to her vagabond life. Yet in its latest incarnation, the trend seems more timely than ever. ''The moment is right,'' said Sharon Graubard, a senior executive with Stylesight, a trend-forecasting firm in New York. Consumers have become more daring and self-expressive, she said. ''They're getting comfortable with shifting their clothes around, pinning them to the side, and kind of working them.''
Moreover, multiway fashions have a grass-roots appeal. ''A lot of our ideas come directly from consumers,'' said Marsha Brady, the creative director of American Apparel. Customers who appear to regard their purchases as modeling clay, generic and malleable enough to take on a life of their own, share their insights on YouTube, twisting and wrapping the company's jersey wraps and bandeau dresses into configurations their designers never imagined.
That inventiveness is an expression of a D.I.Y. mind-set that recently made its way from the world of cosmetics. ''We saw it first in young women wearing eye shadow on their lips and blusher on their eyelids,'' Ms. Graubard said. ''These people don't want to be told what to do.''
Despite its attractions for indies, a mode of dress that requires the adroitness of a chess master still generates skepticism. As Amber Garrett wrote on We Covet, a shopping blog, ''I'll always be a little bit wary of clothing that requires a how-to video (or an iPhone app).''
Yet the trend is gaining traction on online. Sites like Style Hive, Trend Spot and Refinery 29 offer diagrams and photo illustrations that have gone a long way toward demystifying these fashion transformers. And video clips on YouTube and on designers' Web sites promise to turn the straightforward act of getting dressed into a kind of participatory sport. On her site, Ms. Roy offers an animated video demonstrating how to turn a leather coat into a sleeveless power dress, an implicit invitation to viewers to try out the look on their own.
Four-in-one jackets, two-way trousers and convertible coats have gained a cultlike devotion at Harputs Own, a San Francisco clothier and online retailer. ''Our customers are students and bloggers,'' said Gus Harput, who heads this family business. Bloggers, in particular, have done a lot to advance the concept of convertible dressing.
''These people are savvy,'' Mr. Harput said. ''They want the kinds of clothes other people don't have.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NEW WRINKLE: Convertible knitwear, like this versatile outfit from JNBY, allows its price-conscious owners to enjoy a number of looks with just one piece of clothing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TON/JNBY)
KNOTTY AND NICE: A Donna Karan Infinity dress can be draped to become the Front Twist, a cap-sleeve party frock shown here. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA KARAN NEW YORK)
FREEDOM OF CHOICES: This shape-shifting chiffon skirt, left, by Gary Graham can take on the form of a strapless dress, center, or it can be turned into a long-sleeve tunic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GARY GRAHAM
 ALEX ANTICH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (78%); FABRICS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); FASHION SHOWS (77%)

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



508 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths LAZARUS, LEONARD

 BODY:
LAZARUS--Leonard, passed away Saturday, January 15, 2011 at his home in Manhattan. He was 100 years old. Born on January 21, 1910, Leonard lived and loved life for over a century. He nurtured and cherished all his colleagues, friends and loved ones. 
Leonard was a self-made man. He actively practiced law into his 90s. He was a bright lawyer with a gift for bringing both allies and adversaries together to make "things work." He was a mentor to many lawyers and a man of his word and handshake. For over 70 years Mr. Lazarus played a part in the resurgence after World War II of the real estate markets in Manhattan, Queens and Long Island, engaging in a successful private practice with a schoolmate Richard Klugherz. Mr. Lazarus was born in the Bronx to German immigrants, had one brother Edward, and a sister, Nettie, both of whom predeceased him. When Leonard was very young, his father, Henry, took them to North Adams, MA because there was work there in its factories and mills. Leonard's father contracted TB and upon the doctor's advice relocated to the Adirondacks in Saranac Lake. Leonard's mother, Lillie, was very resourceful and found a place big enough, with land, to run a boarding house and for her husband to run a kosher chicken and egg business. His father was one of the first in the area to save enough money for a new Ford delivery truck, and the few Jewish families in the area loved to patronize such an enterprise. At a young age Leonard helped his parents. He had the largest paper route in the neighborhood and took furs to the rail station for a furrier. His respect for hard work, people and the love he developed for nature, while living, hiking and canoeing in the Adirondacks stayed with him throughout his life. Many years later he gave more than one hundred and fifty acres to a land trust in the Adirondacks to preserve nature from development. Mr. Lazarus' father died two days after his high school graduation so proud of his son who was the first person in the family to graduate high school. He won the state championship on the debating team and was Publisher and Treasurer of his yearbook. After his father's death, the family relocated back to the Bronx where his mother opened a family grocery business where Leonard worked. One of the customers, Rose, became his first wife. Leonard won a state scholarship to Columbia University at sixteen. He worked for the New York Times and became a soda fountain man in a movie house that showed the first talkie movie with Al Jolson, and then became the manager of the cafeteria at Columbia. While in college, Leonard befriended August Gold, a friendship which lasted a life time. In later years, August persuaded Leonard to support and invest in affordable development projects in Ossining, NY. After graduation from Columbia University School of Law during the depression, Leonard made fast friends with an older respected lawyer named Mr. Lochen who saw Leonard's potential. Leonard represented the bus driver's union, three to four hundred men on strike, and conducted labor negotiations with Mayor La Guardia. Mr. Lazarus was a conscientious objector; however he served in the Army for two years in his capacity as an attorney stationed at the Pentagon. After the Army, he lived and practiced law in Jamaica, Queens. He became associated with William Edwards, a real estate entrepreneur, who convinced Mr. Lazarus to move his law practice to Long Island and open an office in Mineola. Mr. Lazarus was instrumental in the development, leasing and sale of many buildings. A project of which he was most proud was Sheldon Solow and his building, The Solow Building at Nine 57th Street, the legendary Manhattan skyscraper designed by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, and built in 1974. Mr. Lazarus also was a partner in the Americana Mall, a luxury destination shopping mall in Manhasset, Long Island. He enjoyed working with Steve Hess Associates, William Edwards, Milt Levin, the Castagna Family, among other businesses from Long Island. He consulted with the late Fred Trump, the Parker family and the LeFraks. Mr. Lazarus married Rose Lazarus in 1936. They lived in New York for almost fifty years. Rose was an accomplished pianist and teacher. After a tragic car accident took Rose's life in 1986, Leonard remarried a longtime friend, the widow of one of his friends from college, Henrietta (Hindy) Creamer, an accomplished economist, interior decorator and artist. Mr. Lazarus was a supporter of numerous charitable foundations, including Columbia University, C.A.R.E., Saranac Lake High School and Central Park Conservancy, Inc. Mr. Lazarus is survived by two sons, Frederic Lazarus of Bradenton, FL and David Lazarus of Queensbury, NY; three grandchildren, Dana, Nicole and David Paul as well as a recent newborn great-grandchild, Annabel Rose, all from Queensbury, NY. He also leaves his sister's children, his niece Iris Greenwald Hamburger and her husband Jerome Hamburger of Lawrence, NY and his nephew, Richard Greenwald and his brother Edward's children, his nieces Susan Qubein and Ellen Lazarus. He is also survived by his close friend and companion, Denise Bibro, and all of his caretakers who loved and took care of him for many years. Funeral services are being arranged with the Campbell Funeral Chapel on Madison Avenue, New York City. A memorial will be planned in the near future. For information you may call: 212-288-3500. In lieu of flowers, a contribution to one of Mr. Lazarus' favorite charities or a similar charity of your choice will be appreciated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); FAMILY (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); LAWYERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); POULTRY (65%); HIKING (62%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



509 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants Reach Out to Customers With Social Media

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
RESTAURANTS and bars thrive on repeat business, but customers increasingly expect more than just good service, food and drinks. They want to be engaged and entertained, and some food establishments are turning to location-based social media to help keep customers happy and loyal.
Buffalo Wild Wings, a national restaurant chain that offers casual dining and televised sports, is embarking on a campaign, called ''Home Court Advantage,'' to involve customers beyond the smartphone ''check-in'' they use to note their arrival. 
The chain, which has 730 locations around the country, is known for its wing-eating contests and trivia challenges. Beginning this month, it is working with Scvngr, a location-based social media network, to introduce contests and rewards for its customers. Its main target is tech-savvy basketball fans, an important demographic for the chain.
Like the social media companies Gowalla, Foursquare and Loopt, Scvngr is largely reaching the people in their 20s and 30s who frequently use their mobile phones to flag their presence at a specific spot, and to notify friends of their location. While millions of people have signed onto such sites, it is estimated that just 4 percent of smartphone users in the United States have tried these services, with a mere 1 percent using them more than once a week, according to the most recent Forrester Research survey. Most users are men, however, and some 70 percent are between 19 and 35 -- and that is the ideal profile of a Buffalo Wild Wings customer.
''We are looking for social engagement,'' said Jeremy Burke, brand manager for Buffalo Wild Wings. ''We want them to be able to tell others what they liked -- a beer, a garlic flavor. Our goal is to build frequency.''
Like Buffalo Wild Wings, some food outlets are experimenting with attracting customers and increasing business through digital approaches, which can be cheaper than paper coupons and print advertising. This month, for example, Fatburger, a chain based in California, united with the social media service Loopt and Fox Television to promote the network's new animated series, ''Bob's Burgers,'' about a family-run burger business.
As part of its marketing, the hamburger purveyor revamped four of its 60-plus stores to look like a Bob's Burgers store. Some of its stores served free Bob's Burgers for a day, and the company also sent its ''Fatmobile'' to distribute free hamburgers for one day in Los Angeles.
''It got people off their feet,'' said Alice Lankester, vice president of marketing at Loopt, which is based in Mountain View, Calif. ''Some 1,300 people checked in during a four-hour period,'' she said in reference to a promotion by Virgin America.
Such ''user behavior is driving the way brands are interacting with social media,'' said Ms. Lankester. For example, she said that in a partnership with Virgin America, Loopt temporarily rebranded two taco trucks in California with specials to market the airline's new flights to Mexico.
Buffalo Wild Wings is not taking to the streets, but it is trying to add a layer to smartphone customer giveaways, Mr. Burke said. Customers can win rewards like free chicken wings or soft drinks on each of the first three visits. After that, the chain offers customers a chance to win rewards with challenges like uploading a photo of the crowd's reaction to a big game play.
Customers can also create their own challenges -- in-restaurant or digitally -- and win points for prizes, which include a trip to the National Basketball Association finals with Scottie Pippen, an N.B.A. Hall of Famer who won six championships with the Chicago Bulls.
In the first week, the restaurant's new contests drew 10,000 players who competed in 33,000 challenges. Participants won 5,000 rewards. ''It's very social -- almost like tailgating, but in a restaurant,'' said Christopher Mahl, senior vice president of brands at Scvngr.
The company, based in Cambridge, Mass., recently has worked to expand offerings on a smaller scale with Finale, which has three dessert shops in the Boston area. ''We test our customers' knowledge of our desserts, and they can take quizzes about -- or photos of -- our desserts, then earn points,'' said Paul Conforti, a co-founder of Finale. The points are used for discounts or free desserts, a process that works better for Finale, he said, than a service that might require a large discount over a short period. Mr. Conforti said the information provided by Scvngr allowed him to track the number of people who came to buy pastry or eat a dessert.
''Each customer came in about 2.4 times in the last two months,'' he said of the Scvngr users. ''That's more frequent than our other guests who may come in five or six times a year.'' He attributes the increase to mobile users who are checking in or exchanging information using an app that that allows them to ''bump'' phones. Foursquare, a Scvngr rival, improved its program after people who qualified as ''mayor'' of an establishment began asking what they got for their loyalty, said Eric Friedman, its director of client services. The mayor designation is bestowed on those who make the most visits to a business.
When restaurants and others enroll with Foursquare, they can opt to offer digital specials, which can be discounts or, in the case of high-end restaurants, a massage at a spa, he said.
Even so, using digital to drive up clientele has yet to become widespread. Melissa Parrish, chief author of the Forrester Research study, noted that registered users were ''still a drop in the bucket'' compared with the number of people reached by text and other mobile connections.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Advertising column on Thursday, about restaurants that are turning to social media to attract and keep customers, misstated the surname of the vice president of marketing at Loopt, a social media company in Mountain View, Calif. She is Alice Lankester, not Lancaster. The column also gave the incorrect context for a comment by Ms. Lankester. When she said: ''It got people off their feet. Some 1,300 people checked in during a four-hour period,'' she was referring to a promotion by Virgin America, not by Bob's Burgers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A smartphone app offering rewards for customers of Buffalo Wild Wings created by Scvngr. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (91%); RESTAURANTS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); DRINKING PLACES (79%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); SPORTS FANS (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%); RETAIL COUPONS (68%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); BRANDING (63%); NETWORK TELEVISION (60%); PRINT ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: BUFFALO WILD WINGS INC (85%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: BWLD (NASDAQ) (85%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2011



510 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Advocacy Group Says Justices May Have Conflict in Campaign Finance Cases

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When the conservative financier Charles Koch sent out invitations for a political retreat in Palm Springs later this month, he highlighted past appearances at the gathering of ''notable leaders'' like Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas of the Supreme Court.
A leading liberal group is now trying to use that connection to argue that Mr. Scalia and Mr. Thomas should disqualify themselves from hearing campaign finance cases because they may be biased toward Mr. Koch, a billionaire who has been a major player in financing conservative causes. 
The group, Common Cause, filed a petition with the Justice Department on Wednesday asking it to investigate investigate whether Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas should have recused themselves in the case, involving Citizens United, because of their attendance at past retreats organized by the conservative financier Charles Koch, whose company operates a foundation that is a major contributor to political advocacy groups.
Common Cause also cited the role of Mr. Thomas's wife, Virginia Thomas, in forming a conservative political group opposed to the Obama administration as grounds for his disqualification.
The petition is a new tack for opponents of the court's decision in the Citizens United case. Common Cause, by its own acknowledgment, faces a difficult task in getting the justices' to remove themselves from the case and seeking to have the Citizens United decision itself vacated.
''We're treading in new territory here for us,'' said Arn H. Pearson, Common Cause's vice president for programs. ''But a situation like this raises fundamental questions about public confidence in the Supreme Court.''
Officials at Koch Industries, which Mr. Koch leads, did not respond to e-mails and a phone call Wednesday seeking comment on the petition. A spokeswoman at the Supreme Court declined comment.
Supreme Court justices have wide latitude in deciding whether to recuse themselves from hearing cases. In one of the more well-known examples in recent years, Justice Scalia refused to remove himself from hearing a challenge to Vice President Dick Cheney's energy task force after he had gone duck hunting with Mr. Cheney in 2004.
''It's a steep uphill climb for Common Cause, but not an insurmountable one,'' said Steven Gillers, who teaches legal ethics at New York University. At the very least, he said, the group's petition could force a ''public airing'' of questions surrounding the two justices' past appearances at the Koch retreat and their connections to the group.
Still unknown, for instance, is exactly when Justices Scalia and Thomas appeared before the group for its invitation-only retreat, which is aimed at promoting political strategies for economic freedom, or whether they were reimbursed for their expenses.
Common Cause said in its petition to the Justice Department that if either of the justices appeared before Mr. Koch's group between 2008 and 2010, when the court was considering aspects of the Citizens United case, ''it would certainly raise serious issues of the appearance of impropriety and bias.''
Mr. Koch and his brother, David Koch, were among the main beneficiaries of the Supreme Court's decision in the Citizens United case and became a favorite target of liberal groups, which accused them of effectively trying to buy the election.
The political action committee for Koch Industries, a Kansas-based energy company, spent $2.5 million in last year's elections, according to the Common Cause complaint. Americans for Prosperity, a conservative group that the Koch brothers founded, is believed to have spent tens of millions more in the campaign to support conservative candidates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PETITIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); ETHICS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (60%); LEGAL ETHICS (50%)

COMPANY: KOCH INDUSTRIES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%)

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (90%); ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011



511 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: State Dinner Guests

 BODY:
The following is a list of guests expected at the president's State Dinner honoring President Hu Jintao of China, as provided by the White House:
THE PRESIDENT and MRS. OBAMA
HIS EXCELLENCY HU JINTAO
The Honorable Madeleine Albright, Washington, D.C. Ms. Alice Albright
Ms. Christiane Amanpour, ABC News, New York, NY Mr. James Rubin
The Honorable David Axelrod, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor Mrs. Susan Axelrod
Mr. Jeffrey Bader, National Security Council Ms. Rohini Talalla 
The Honorable Elizabeth Bagley, Washington, D.C. Mr. Kevin Frawley
Mr. Steven Ballmer, Microsoft, Redmond, WA Mrs. Connie Ballmer
Ms. Bette Bao Lord, New York, NY The Honorable Winston Lord
Mrs. Denise Bauer, Belvedere Tiburon, CA
The Honorable Howard Berman, Representative from California Mrs. Janis Berman
Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Dr. Jill Biden
The Honorable Joseph Beau Biden, III, Attorney General of Delaware, Wilmington, DE Mrs. Hallie Biden
His Excellency Zheng Bijian, Chairman, CIIDS
His Excellency Dai Bingguo, State Councilor
Mr. Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs, New York, NY Mrs. Laura Blankfein
The Honorable Antony Blinken, Deputy Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor, Office of the Vice President
The Honorable Stephen Breyer, United States Supreme Court Dr. Johanna Breyer
Mr. Greg Brown, Motorola, Schaumburg, IL Mrs. Anna-Louise Brown
The Honorable Dr. Zbigniew Brezezinski, McLean, VA Mrs. Emilie A. Brzezinski
The Honorable Kurt M. Campbell, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs
The Honorable Lael Brainard, Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs
The Honorable James E. Carter, former President of the United States Mrs. Rosalynn Carter
Mr. Jackie Chan, Beverly Hills, CA Mr. Phillip Button
The Honorable Elaine Chao, Washington, D.C. Dr. James Chao
His Excellency Wang Chao, Vice Minister for Commerce
His Excellency Tung Chee Hwa, Vice Chairman, CPPCC, former Hong Kong Chief Executive
Mr. John A. Chen, Chairman, Committee of 100, New York, NY Mrs. Sherrie Chen
The Honorable Chris Christie, Governor of New Jersey, Trenton, NJ Mrs. Mary Pat Christie
The Honorable Judy Chu, Representative from California Ms. Chiling Tong
The Honorable Steven Chu, Secretary of Energy Mrs. Jean Chu
The Honorable Hillary R. Clinton, Secretary of State
The Honorable William J. Clinton, former President of the United States
The Honorable James E. Clyburn, Representative from South Carolina Mr. John Clyburn
The Honorable Richard Daley, Mayor of Chicago, Chicago, IL Mrs. Maggie Daley
The Honorable William Daley, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff Ms. Bernadette Keller
His Excellency Chen Deming, Minister of Commerce
Mr. Jamie Dimon, JP Morgan Chase & Co., New York, NY Mrs. Judith Dimon
The Honorable Thomas Donilon, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor Ms. Cathy Russell, Chief of Staff to Dr. Jill Biden
The Honorable Arne Duncan, Secretary of Education Mrs. Karen Duncan
Mr. James Fallows, The Atlantic, Washington, D.C. Mrs. Deborah Fallows
Mr. Xie Feng, Director General, MFA
Mr. Thomas Friedman, The New York Times, Washington, D.C. Mrs. Ann Friedman
The Honorable Michael B. Froman, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economic Affairs Ms. Nancy Goodman
His Excellency Wan Gang, Minister of Science and Technology
The Honorable Robert M. Gates, Secretary of Defense Mrs. Becky Gates
The Honorable Timothy F. Geithner, Secretary of the Treasury Mrs. Carole Geithner
Mr. Mark Gilbert, Boca Raton, FL Mrs. Nancy Gilbert
The Honorable Chris Gregoire, Governor of Washington, Olympia, WA Ms. Courtney Gregoire
His Excellency Zhu Guangyao, Vice Minister for Finance
His Excellency Zhang Guobao, Vice Minister for NDRC
Mr. Herbie Hancock, Los Angeles, CA Mrs. GiGi Hancock
The Honorable Dr. John P. Holdren, Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Science and Technology
The Honorable Robert Hormats, Under Secretary of State for Economic, Business, and Agricultural Affairs
The Honorable Steny Hoyer, Representative from Maryland, Democratic Whip
His Excellency Wang Huning, Director of the Policy Research Office of CCCPC
The Honorable Jon Huntsman, U.S. Ambassador to China Mrs. Mary Kaye Huntsman
Mr. Robert Iger, The Walt Disney Company, Burbank, CA Ms. Willow Bay
Mr. David Ignatius, The Washington Post, Washington, D.C. Dr. Eve Ignatius
Mr. Jeff Immelt, General Electric, Fairfield, CT Mrs. Andrea Immelt
The Honorable Valerie Jarrett, Senior Advisor and Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Public Engagement
His Excellency Li Jiaxiang, Vice Minister for Transportation
His Excellency Yang Jiechi, Minister of Foreign Affairs
His Excellency Ling Jihua, Director of the General Office of CCCPC
Mr. Robert Kagan, McLean, VA Ms. Victoria Nuland
Mr. Michael Kempner, East Rutherford, NJ Mrs. Jacqueline Kempner
Mr. Muhtar Kent, Coca-Cola, Atlanta, GA
The Honorable John F. Kerry, Senator from Massachusetts Mrs. Teresa Heinz Kerry
Mr. Robert King, UAW, Detroit, MI Ms. Julie Kushner
The Honorable Ron Kirk, United States Trade Representative Mrs. Matrice Ellis-Kirk
The Honorable Henry Kissinger, New York, NY Mrs. Nancy Kissinger
Mr. Nicholas Kristof, The New York Times, Scarsdale, NY Ms. Sheryl WuDunn
Ms. Ellen Kullman, DuPont, Wilmington, DE Mr. Michael Kullman
Dr. Zhang Kunsheng, Director-General, Protocol Department
Ms. Michelle Kwan, Torrance, CA
Mr. Lang Lang, New York, NY Mrs. Zhou Xiulan
The Honorable Jacob Lew, Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources
Ms. Maya Lin, New York, NY Mr. Daniel Wolf
Ms. Limin Liu, Reno, NV Dr. Hugh Shapiro
Mr. Andrew N. Liveris, The Dow Chemical Company, Midland, MI Mrs. Paula Liveris
The Honorable Gary Locke, Secretary of Commerce Mrs. Mona Locke
The Honorable Christopher Lu, Assistant to the President and Cabinet Secretary Ms. Kathryn Thomson
The Honorable Richard Lugar, Senator from Indiana Mrs. Charlene Lugar
Mr. Yo Yo Ma, Burbank, CA Ms. Jill Hornor
The Honorable Capricia Marshall, Chief of Protocol, Department of State
Mr. W. James McNerney, The Boeing Company, Chicago, ILMrs. Haity McNerney
Mr. Evan Medeiros, Director for Asian Affairs, NSS
His Excellency Jiang Mianheng, Vice Chairman, CAS
Mr. Mel Monzack, Wilmington, DEMrs. Ann Monzack
Admiral Michael G. Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Mrs. Wendi Deng Murdoch, New York, NY
Mr. James Murren, Las Vegas, NV Mrs. Heather Murren
The Honorable Thomas Nides, Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources Ms. Virginia Moseley
Mr. Paul Otellini, Intel, Santa Clara, CA Mrs. Sandy Otellini
The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Representative from California, Democratic Leader Mr. Paul Pelosi
His Excellency Zhang Ping, Minister of NDRC
The Honorable David Plouffe, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor Ms. Olivia Morgan
Mr. Tom Pritzker, Pritzker Organization, Chicago, IL Mrs. Margot Pritzker
His Excellency Wang Qishan, Vice Premier of the State Council
Ms. Jean Quan, Mayor of Oakland, CA
The Honorable Edwin M. Lee, Mayor of San Francisco, CA
Ms. Azita Raji, JP Morgan Securities, Inc., Belvedere, CA Mr. Gary Syman
The Honorable Ben Rhodes, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategic Communications and Speechwriting Ms. Ann Norris
The Honorable Susan Rice, United States Ambassador to the United Nations, New York, NY Mr. Ian Cameron
Mr. Robert Roche, Shanghai, CN
Mr. Kenneth Roth, The Human Rights Watch, Washington, D.C. Ms. Annie Sparrow
The Honorable Pete Rouse, Counselor to the President Ms. Courtney Chapin
Mr. David M. Rubenstein, The Carlyle Group, Washington, D.C. Mrs. Alice Rubenstein
Mr. Kirk Rudy, Austin, TX Mrs. Amy Rudy
The Honorable Brent Scowcroft, The Forum for International Policy, Washington, D.C.
The Honorable Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of Health and Human Services The Honorable Gary Sebelius
The Honorable Susan Sher, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the First Lady The Honorable Neil Cohen
Mr. Robert Sherman, Boston, MA Ms. Kim S. Sawyer
His Excellency Chen Shiju, Chief of the President's Office
The Honorable George Shultz, Stanford, CA Mrs. Charlotte Shultz
Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong, Culver City, CA
The Honorable Phil Gordon, Mayor of Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ
The Honorable Gene Sperling, Assistant to the President for Economic Policy & Director of the National Economic Council Ms. Allison Abner
The Honorable Jim Steinberg, Deputy Secretary of State Ms. Sherburne B. Abbott
Ms. Barbra Streisand, Malibu, CA Mr. James Brolin
The Honorable Tina Tchen, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Mr. John Thornton, The Brookings Institution, HSBC North America, Palm Beach, FL Mrs. Margaret Thornton
His Excellency Cui Tiankai, Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs
Dr. Stanley Toy, Jr., Pasadena, CAMs. Lana Toy
Mr. Luis Ubinas, The Ford Foundation, New York, NY Dr. Deborah Tolman
Mr. Jose Villarreal, Commissioner General, Shanghai Expo, San Antonio, TX Ms. Sara Villarreal
Ms. Vera Wang, New York, NY Mr. Arthur Becker
Mr. Steve Westly, Menlo Park, CA Ms. Anita Yu
Ms. Anna Wintour, Vogue Magazine, New York, NY Mr. Shelby Bryan
Ms. Patricia A. Woertz, Archer Daniels Midland, Decatur, IL Mr. Kelvin R. Westbrook
Mr. B.D. Wong, New York, NY Mrs. Roberta Wong
Mr. Charles Woo, Mega Toys, Los Angeles, CA Mrs. Ying Woo
The Honorable David Wu, Representative from Oregon Ms. Anna Kopperud
His Excellency Xie Xuren, Minister of Finance
His Excellency Zhang Yesui, Chinese Ambassador to the United States Madam Chen Naiqing
His Excellency Sun Yibiao, Vice Minister for Customs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (61%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (61%); JPM (LSE) (61%); 8634 (TSE) (61%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); GS (NYSE) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (61%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (61%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (91%); JOE BIDEN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (79%); JAMES CLYBURN (79%); JAMES DIMON (79%); STEVEN A BALLMER (79%); STEVEN CHU (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (77%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (73%); DAVID AXELROD (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); MICHELLE OBAMA (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); HOWARD L BERMAN (72%); CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (71%); STEPHEN BREYER (65%); GREGORY Q BROWN (58%); ELAINE CHAO (58%); ARNE DUNCAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



512 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE TRADE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Goldman's Journey to Self-Improvement

BYLINE: By JESSE EISINGER. 
Jesse Eisinger is a reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest.

 BODY:
Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chairman and chief executive of Goldman Sachs.
The New Year is a time for reflection, so it was heartening to see Goldman Sachs come out with 63 pages of resolutions.
The investment bank published its ''Report of the Business Standards Committee'' last week, a document in which it reiterated its principles and announced the formation of many new committees. Goldman will be an open book, the firm pledged, disclosing more clearly how much business the firm does for itself (not as much as all those detractors think) and how much it works for its clients (every waking moment).
Goldman suffered a brutal year, paying a $550 million fine to settle federal claims of civil securities fraud and being vilified at a Senate hearing. Even the $15.38 billion the firm has set aside for compensation in 2010 wasn't enough to salve the pain. Goldman would like our love, too. And so the powerful investment bank has embarked on a journey of self-improvement, a great American ritual from Ben Franklin to Elizabeth Gilbert. Goldman's report should have been titled ''Eat, Pay, Trade.'' 
In a video that accompanies the report, Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chairman and chief executive, said the firm conducted a ''thorough self-assessment,'' followed by a ''recommitment to core values and principles.''
It's language that ''reads straight out of a Tony Robbins retreat manual, not your usual business document,'' said Christine B. Whelan, a University of Pittsburgh sociologist who has studied the self-help industry.
Of course, releasing the report is a public relations stunt. Some of it was welcome, like the increased financial disclosure. Some may fall by the wayside, like most New Year's resolutions. Some seems as disingenuous as any piece of professional flackery.
Goldman's effort fits neatly into what the historian (and former New York councilwoman) Eva S. Moskowitz has called the therapeutic gospel, a doctrine so ingrained in American society that few of us consciously recognize it. The gospel consists of three tenets: happiness is the supreme goal, problems stem from psychological causes, and those psychological problems are treatable.
The therapeutic gospel is all about me and my problems. Goldman thinks its problems stem, if not from psychological issues, then from attitudinal ones. Significant management and operational changes are starkly missing from Goldman's leaf-turning exercise. Instead, Goldman has decided that its troubles emanate from not having treated clients nicely. Or, more likely, Goldman thinks its problem is that the world thinks Goldman didn't treat its clients nicely.
But that wasn't the problem with Goldman Sachs in the fall of 2008. Creating collateralized debt obligations and betting against their clients was unseemly, but it wasn't the cause of the global financial crisis. Goldman's leverage - and the leverage at other major financial institutions - was the real issue.
Goldman's business model was broken because it made a classic banking mistake: it lent long and borrowed short. All banks are susceptible to runs. Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers had theirs, deservedly. By the fall of 2008, it was Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs's turn. Goldman took taxpayer dollars and was granted access to cheap Federal Reserve money. Goldman insists that it would have survived the crisis anyway. We'll never know whether it would have, because the fact is that Goldman received assistance.
Goldman, like all the other major investment and commercial banks, had become too big and intertwined, making the financial system too fragile.
In other words, the flaws in the financial system were structural, more like the problem of poverty, and not based on character. As such, they require solutions beyond pledges of better behavior.
Unfortunately, despite a hulking financial reform law, the American financial system still has largely the same structural issues that it had before the crisis. Neither Goldman nor the government shows any inclination to face these issues. What about investors?
The covenant that equity investors have struck with investment banks goes something like this: Deliver high returns and we will allow employees to take about half of the revenue for themselves as compensation. It was always a bad bargain, made worse by the financial crisis. Lehman investors were wiped out. Bear Stearns investors took huge hits. (Whether investors have learned from that experience, or whether they have learned to expect bailouts, is debatable.)
Despite Goldman's reputation in some corners as Evil Genius, its shares are actually suffering in the marketplace because investors worry about its volatile and unpredictable results from quarter to quarter. These concerns were validated when Goldman reported on Wednesday that trading and securities services profit took a big hit in the fourth quarter, dropping 31 percent. The stock slid 3 percent by midafternoon in response.
Investors prefer annuities to swing-for-the-fences profits. Compared with pure asset managers and investment banks that specialize in either advisory work or making markets, Goldman stock trades at a discount these days. Goldman's price-to-earnings ratio stands at less than 10, while Lazard (a pure advisory firm), Jefferies (a market maker) and BlackRock (an asset manager) trade at significantly higher multiples.
Investors often prefer to look at a price-to-book ratio to value financial firms; even on that measure, Goldman is far below its peak valuation.
Could there be an argument that Goldman should break up into three smaller, more focused companies? It would be better for the financial system, and just might lead to the self-improvement that Goldman is searching for.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive of Goldman Sachs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); HISTORY (72%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (54%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (90%); ANTHONY ROBBINS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



513 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: For 2 Senators, Similar Paths Up and Down

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
You can begin the list of similarities with the way that both men achieved the kind of longevity that approximated those long-tenured Southern senators of old -- Christopher J. Dodd, the longest-serving senator in Connecticut history, first elected in 1980, Joseph I. Lieberman in 1988.
Mr. Lieberman was a few hanging chads away from being elected vice president in 2000 and then began the presidential campaign as a strong candidate four years later. Mr. Dodd moved his family to Iowa for his disastrous bid for the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination, yet remained one of the most powerful figures in the Senate. 
At their peaks, both seemed likely to be senators for life of the most personal sort: Mr. Dodd, the soul of Irish charm, and Mr. Lieberman, even some of his enemies concede, a mensch.
And just as Mr. Dodd did a year ago, Mr. Lieberman on Wednesday announced the end of his Senate career in a situation that once would have seemed impossible to imagine -- declining to run for re-election in a race certain to be brutal and with a good chance of being unsuccessful.
The similarities disappear from there. Among Connecticut Democrats, Mr. Dodd remains enormously popular; Mr. Lieberman is a pariah. Mr. Lieberman's political downfall began with issues, particularly his support for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan; Mr. Dodd's started with conduct, particularly his handling of his personal finances as the economy cratered.
There are many ways to fall from grace. But at a time when hostility to politics and politicians is being baked into the national DNA, one lesson of their dual implosion is not to expect to see such towering, long-tenured figures, at least in this part of the country, very often in the future.
''People are too alienated from the process for anyone to feel very secure,'' said Bill Curry, a former Democratic candidate for governor in Connecticut and now a political analyst. ''Even if you have high favorability ratings, it's like having a thousand Facebook friends and thinking they're a thousand actual friends.''
Political longevity has never come with guarantees, but it once brought more job security than it does now. Democrats and Republicans in Connecticut agreed that the Internet and the speed of modern communications had become the great leveler even for entrenched politicians with savvy organizations and decades of favors done. It was the Internet-based campaign of Ned Lamont that handed Mr. Lieberman his devastating primary defeat in 2006, which, in turn, stoked Mr. Lieberman's alienation from, and bitterness toward, the Democratic base.
He won re-election as an independent, but the rift only deepened when he endorsed his Republican friend John McCain for president. Speaking at the Republican National Convention in 2008 left him, perhaps irrevocably, a man without a party. Similarly, Mr. Dodd had no way to tamp down the outrage spread online over controversies involving mortgages he received under a V.I.P. program and charges that he was too close to Wall Street while presiding over the Senate banking committee.
The Senate ethics panel cleared him of breaking rules in getting the mortgages, but chastised him for not doing more to avoid the appearance of benefiting from being an insider. For both men, the speed and fury of the online outrage far surpassed their ability to combat it.
''You have change reflected in nanoseconds, not in the time it takes for mail to constituents or personal appearances,'' said Chris Healy, chairman of the Republican Party in Connecticut. ''Voters are aware in real time what's going on, every vote. There's no way to scrub and repackage it anymore.''
Similarly, the insatiable demand for conflict and outrage on cable television means the bigger the target, the better the story. So being around a long time means both more time to slip up and farther to fall. ''Sometimes it's just a matter of being around long enough to acquire enemies or get sloppy,'' Mr. Healy said. ''In Dodd's case, he got sloppy about his personal affairs. In Lieberman's, he antagonized his base, and he paid for it.''
Of course this cuts many ways. The declines for both senators coincided with their biggest moments on the national stage -- the presidential and vice-presidential races that some say inflated their egos and made few friends at home. It is easy to see it as the downside of imperial Washington at work.
There are certainly worse things than retiring after decades in the Senate, still relatively young and without a final, big-money, political knife fight for the privilege of serving in a hopelessly polarized Congress. ''I think more than anything the reason they decided not to run was, if you win, what do you win?'' said John W. Olsen, president of the Connecticut A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''There's not much of an atmosphere to find common ground.''
And lame-duckdom can have its blessings. Admirers say Mr. Dodd cemented his legacy with a heroic performance on financial reform after announcing he would not run again. It remains to be seen if Mr. Lieberman will follow suit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, left, and Christopher J. Dodd at the Democratic convention in 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (61%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (92%); JOE LIEBERMAN (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



514 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Focuses on Small Things in His State of City Speech

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
There was barely any nod to Manhattan. Nor any mention of the economic virtues of Wall Street, or much talk about national politics.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg sought on Wednesday to shore up his relationship with his constituents and make the case that he was still fully engaged in his third term.
In a speech notable for what was not said, Mr. Bloomberg, delivering his 10th State of the City address, went out of his way to keep the theme distinctly parochial by highlighting neighborhood projects, unveiling proposals aimed at helping small businesses and pledging not to raise taxes. 
Mr. Bloomberg also made a concerted effort to rebut criticism that he was ignoring the boroughs outside Manhattan. Beyond paying homage to the refurbished St. George Theater on Staten Island, where he delivered his speech, the mayor referred repeatedly to his administration's efforts to revitalize Brooklyn (a new amusement area in Coney Island), Queens (a real estate project at Hunters Point) and the Bronx (a new fishing pier at Hunts Point Landing).
But the mayor did not utter a word about the snowstorm last month that unleashed widespread criticism when streets in many neighborhoods went unplowed for days. The address was devoid of big, sweeping initiatives, in part because of Mr. Bloomberg's admonition that ''money is tight -- very tight.'' But in one of several small-scale initiatives that dominated his agenda, he promised to spare restaurants that received an ''A'' on health inspections from being fined for any violations uncovered by the inspection.
Mr. Bloomberg, stepping up his populist attacks on Albany and public-sector unions, also vowed to push even harder for pension overhauls. He pledged not to sign any labor agreement that included salary increases unless it was accompanied by a promise to cut benefit packages.
Not only did Mr. Bloomberg mostly avoid two favorite topics, Wall Street and national politics, he also tried to be a bit self-deprecating -- hardly a familiar character trait -- by opening with a light-hearted video of the Staten Island groundhog that bit his finger in 2009.
''He is my good friend,'' the groundhog said, in a voice-over provided by a human actor.
Given the frequency with which Mr. Bloomberg mentioned neighborhood issues -- including a much-publicized proposal to allow livery cars to make on-street pickups outside of Manhattan -- it seemed, at times, almost more of a State of the Borough speech than a citywide one.
Mr. Bloomberg may have been trying to prove to his naysayers that he was not aloof, distracted or out of touch, as he has been recently portrayed. One recent poll indicated that Mr. Bloomberg's popularity had tumbled noticeably in the wake of his administration's response to the Christmas weekend blizzard, a payroll accounting scandal and his selection of Cathleen P. Black, a publishing executive with little education background, as the new schools chancellor.
Still, on Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg did not apologize, though he has done so in the past. And that was disappointing to some, including Bill de Blasio, the city's public advocate, who said that the mayor had missed an opportunity to regain confidence.
''It's part of leadership to acknowledge mistakes,'' Mr. de Blasio said. ''It would have been cleansing.''
Instead, in an address that ran about 45 minutes, Mr. Bloomberg did offer a low-key, and less grandiose, presentation than he had earlier in his tenure. He proposed, for instance, to construct family centers at Rikers Island and improve the juvenile justice system. He also proposed, under a plan led by Deputy Mayor Stephen Goldsmith, online forums for city employees to exchange ideas to improve services or save money.
He was most impassioned when talking about immigration reform, and beseeching Albany lawmakers to allow the city to manage more of its affairs on its own. And for his long-running battle to reform the pensions system, he announced that he had enlisted the help of former Mayor Edward I. Koch.
Union leaders did not take kindly to Mr. Bloomberg's words. Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said he was disappointed that the mayor spent little time talking about education. He also took offense at Mr. Bloomberg's warning over contracts, considering that the teachers' union is now in the middle of negotiations.
''It shows a lack of professionalism,'' Mr. Mulgrew said. ''I think he was trying to get cheap political points considering what's happened with his administration recently.''
Harry Nespoli, chairman of the Municipal Labor Committee, the umbrella group of unions representing city workers, said, ''Lowering benefits, changing layoff seniority for teachers and returning civil service to the Tammany Hall era will not produce one job.''
Some elected officials were dubious of Mr. Bloomberg's sincerity. City Councilman Daniel J. Halloran, a Republican from Queens, said: ''The outer boroughs need more than livery cabs. We need the attention of city services. We need capital investment, better school funding, and to be treated as equals with the inner borough.''
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said that Mr. Bloomberg had unveiled ''an innovative and realistic agenda'' and that ''he rightly recognizes that government has to do more with less and that during these difficult times, tough choices and sacrifice are required.''
City Councilman Peter F. Vallone Jr., a Queens Democrat who had criticized Mr. Bloomberg over the snowstorm response, said: ''The mayor laid out a very powerful agenda which reminded people why they elected him. He didn't give a 'feel good' speech; he gave a 'get real' speech, which New Yorkers needed to hear.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Applause at the end of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's State of the City speech Wednesday at the St. George Theater. Below, the mayor after the speech. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (76%); INSPECTIONS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



515 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: For Lieberman, an Exit Forged in Alienation and Disaffection

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and ELIZABETH A. HARRIS; David M. Halbfinger reported from New York, and Elizabeth A. Harris from Stamford, Conn.

 BODY:
Perhaps no one could claim credit for Senator Joseph I. Lieberman's decision not to seek a fifth term more than Markos Moulitsas, the founder of the liberal blog Daily Kos. In 2006, Mr. Moulitsas mobilized like-minded Democrats to try to unseat Mr. Lieberman as punishment for supporting the Iraq war and for being too accommodating to President George W. Bush.
Mr. Moulitsas even appeared in television commercials with Ned Lamont, the antiwar liberal who defeated Mr. Lieberman in the Connecticut Democratic primary that year (only to lose to Mr. Lieberman, running as an independent, in the general election). 
On Wednesday, as Mr. Lieberman gave an upbeat valedictory speech, surrounded by 200 supporters at a hotel in his hometown, Stamford, Conn., Mr. Moulitsas took a few self-congratulatory bows of his own.
''Remember when kicking Lieberman out of the Democratic Party was going to cost Democrats the support of moderates, Jewish voters and Eeyores everywhere?'' Mr. Moulitsas wrote on his blog, less than two hours after Mr. Lieberman left the stage in the hotel ballroom. ''And then the Democrats won everything for two cycles in a row.''
The don't-let-the-door-hit-you-on-the-way-out digital send-off was a needless but effective reminder of just how badly Mr. Lieberman's ties to his former party had been frayed, how influential the ''netroots'' had become and how hostile the political environment has been lately to his brand of middle-of-the-road politics.
Mr. Lieberman barely alluded to this in his speech, saying only that ''I have not always fit comfortably into conventional political boxes -- Democrat or Republican, liberal or conservative.''
The senator looked past the bad blood with Democrats, back all the way to John F. Kennedy, who he said had inspired him to pursue public service. He said Kennedy's principles -- ''service to country, support of civil rights and social justice, pro-growth economic and tax policies, and a strong national defense'' -- were still his politics.
''So maybe that means J.F.K. wouldn't fit neatly into any of today's partisan political boxes either,'' Mr. Lieberman ventured.
To his supporters, that is precisely the point: the party left Mr. Lieberman behind, not the other way around.
John Droney, a former Connecticut State Democratic chairman and confidant of Mr. Lieberman's, recalled the moment when Mr. Moulitsas and other left-wing activists seemed to overtake the primary process in 2006, elevating Mr. Lamont's profile into a national cause celebre and even deterring some political professionals from working on Mr. Lieberman's re-election campaign.
''It happened in a nanosecond,'' Mr. Droney said. And, he added, such liberals have retained control of the primary nominating process ever since. ''The Average Joe Democrat doesn't know where to go,'' he said. ''We've become a party with no center.''
Yet, if the party pushed him away, Mr. Droney conceded, Mr. Lieberman kept moving, embittered by the 2006 primary rejection.
''After that happens, Joe's very upset,'' Mr. Droney said. ''He says: 'Wait a minute, I got out of Yale Law School, I was one of the youngest state senators, I was majority leader, I ran for Congress, I was the first activist attorney general, I was elected to the United States Senate in a very difficult election against Lowell Weicker, I served my country well, I ran for vice president and actually was elected by the popular vote and, now, because these people don't like my foreign-policy position, they're supposed to ignore 30 years? No way!' And he resented it, and it's been reflected ever since.''
If insiders were acutely aware of Mr. Lieberman's alienation, ordinary voters sensed it, too.
Marion Percy, 54, a receptionist who lives in Stamford and described herself as a political centrist, said Mr. Lieberman's decision to run as an independent in 2006 after losing the primary was a turning point in her opinion of him.
''I felt like it wasn't about the issues anymore,'' Ms. Percy said.
And Michele Beudert, 61, a nurse from Greenwich who counts herself as a longtime Lieberman supporter, said that in recent years, he had not backed Democratic causes like health care the way she had grown to expect.
Ms. Beudert said she voted for Mr. Lieberman in the 2006 Democratic primary and again in the general election, only to lose faith as he sided more and more with Republicans.
''I think he turned his back on me,'' she said of Mr. Lieberman's sporadic but high-profile breaks with his old party since 2006 -- including his McCain endorsement, his opposition to a public option in President Obama's health care bill and his surprising death blow to a Medicare buy-in option that he had once supported.
''He just felt like a little boy who hadn't gotten his way, and we'd given him his way,'' Ms. Beudert said. ''He didn't get his way, and then the Democrats of this state supported him, and I think he disappointed us. I'm not sad to see him go.''
Mr. Moulitsas, in an interview by e-mail, said this was the heart of Mr. Lieberman's problem: ''The voters back home couldn't stand his shenanigans, and that's why he quit.'' He wrote, ''What we saw today was a concession speech, not a retirement one.''
As for Mr. Moulitsas, he had already moved on.
On Tuesday night, as news of Mr. Lieberman's decision was breaking, Mr. Moulitsas was weighing in on his successor. ''Chris Murphy is THE candidate for CT-Sen in 2012,'' he said via Twitter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut was joined by his wife, Hadassah, as he announced on Wednesday in Stamford that he would not seek a fifth term. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERAL MEDIA (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (74%); IRAQ WAR (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



516 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Obama Raises Human Rights, Pressing China

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MARK LANDLER; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Wednesday gently but pointedly prodded China to make progress on human rights, but he sought to focus most of the attention during a closely watched state visit with President Hu Jintao on the expanding economic relationship between the United States and its biggest economic rival.
Mr. Obama said that differences on human rights were an ''occasional source of tension between our two governments.'' As the two leaders stood side by side at a nationally televised news conference, he called on China to live up to human rights values that he said were enshrined in the Chinese Constitution, adding that Americans ''have some core views as Americans about the universality of certain rights: freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly.''
Mr. Hu, for his part, seemed to hearten White House officials by acknowledging that China had a ways to go on human rights issues. ''China still faces many challenges in economic and social development,'' he said. ''And a lot still needs to be done in China in terms of human rights.'' But he noted that China was willing to talk to the United States only within the confines of the ''principle of noninterference in each other's internal affairs.'' 
Administration officials said the human rights discussion continued in private as well, illustrating how a visit marked by public displays of pomp and harmony belied a more fractious relationship over matters that included North Korea and the Chinese currency. They said Mr. Obama pressed Mr. Hu specifically on China's imprisonment of its Nobel laureate, Liu Xiaobo, during a private dinner at the White House on Tuesday night and a larger session between the leaders and their delegations on Wednesday.
As always with state visits, there was a healthy dose of rainmaking. The White House, for instance, announced that the two countries had made business deals that the president said would generate $45 billion in American exports. Officials said that China had also agreed to take additional steps that would curtail the theft of intellectual property and expand the opportunities for American investment in China.
Calling for the two countries to ''break out of the old stereotypes that somehow China is simply taking manufacturing jobs and taking advantage of low wages,'' Mr. Obama said during a meeting with Mr. Hu and American and Chinese business leaders that it was important for American companies to be allowed into China's vast marketplace. The relationship between the powers, he said, must be ''much more complex'' than one in which America functions simply as a market for Chinese products.
Mr. Hu's visit is giving Mr. Obama a rich opportunity to strengthen ties between the White House and the American business community after a year in which relations had soured. With the arrival last week of Mr. Obama's new chief of staff, William M. Daley, the former Clinton administration commerce secretary, the White House has sought to turn Mr. Hu's visit into a kind of trade show for American companies.
In a significant concession, China agreed to scrap a policy that favored Chinese technology companies for big government contracts, a senior administration official said. American companies complained that the policy, known as ''indigenous innovation,'' cut them out of one of China's most lucrative markets.
Among the deals announced on Wednesday morning was one in which the Chinese government authorized Chinese companies to buy 200 airplanes from Boeing, worth $19 billion. The Obama administration also announced railway and energy contracts for General Electric and a joint venture between Honeywell and Haier, a Chinese appliance maker. All told, administration officials claimed that these deals would support 235,000 jobs in 12 states, but the precise status of each deal was unknown.
A senior official cited a deal in which Cummins Inc. would build hybrid buses in China, but a spokesman for the company later said that ''neither Cummins nor Yutong has announced any deal and we're not in a position to do so at this time,'' referring to the company's Chinese partner.
W. James McNerney Jr., Boeing's chief executive, said the meeting between the business leaders and the two presidents was constructive. ''Our political leadership was trying to create an environment where business leadership offered their views,'' he said in an interview after the meeting. Mr. McNerney said he and the other American business executives spent an hour together preparing themselves before the two presidents came into the room. Once they did, both American and Chinese executives, he said, pressed for better access to the other's respective markets.
Mr. McNerney, who said he was thrilled with the aircraft order, said that final assembly of the planes -- all 737s and 777s -- would be done in the United States.
In a joint statement issued by the two sides, which came after protracted negotiations, the United States and China found some common ground on the nuclear threat from North Korea. The statement called for dialogue between North and South Korea, something the Obama administration had pushed, rather than an immediate resumption of multilateral negotiations with North Korea that China had backed. And for the first time, officials said, China ''expressed concern'' about the North's recently disclosed uranium-enrichment plant.
Confronting another source of tension, Mr. Hu spoke of the need to have better relations between the two militaries. American officials worry about an increasingly defiant and independent Chinese military. The two sides pledged better communication between the Pentagon and the People's Liberation Army, including a visit to Washington by China's top general, Chen Bingde.
As part of the emphasis on more face-to-face meetings, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. also accepted an invitation from Mr. Hu to visit Beijing this year.
But the visit has also had glitches -- both private and public. Several administration officials characterized the tone of the private meetings as stilted and formal, and said Mr. Hu often read from prepared texts. Protesters dogged Mr. Hu around Washington, appearing at the White House, the State Department and outside the Chinese Embassy, demanding an end to what they said was persecution of religious minorities and Tibet.
The news conference with the two leaders came at the midpoint in a long and exhausting day for the two men that was packed with ceremony, from the fife-and-drum band that greeted Mr. Hu on the White House lawn to a state lunch hosted by Mr. Biden and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to a full state dinner at the White House.
In fact, Wednesday's morning events ran so late that Mr. Hu ended up leaving the state lunch -- where he was served fillet of Alaskan cod -- just two hours before he was due at the state dinner. At the lunch, Mr. Hu was serenaded by the cellists Yo-Yo Ma and Joshua Roman, who played an abbreviated program that included a traditional hymn, ''Dona Nobis Pacem,'' and a Chinese song, ''Summer in the High Grassland.''
Among some in the audience, the lateness of the hour gave them a chance to bemoan the fact that they had to run home to change into formal dress for the dinner at the White House -- a not-so-subtle reminder that this was only the second-hottest social ticket of the day.
Online Correction: January 19, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Deng Xiaoping. Though he was the supreme leader of China when he visited Washington in 1979, he was not the country's president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama and President Hu Jintao of China greeted visitors at a ceremony outside the White House on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 President Obama and his wife, Michelle, greeted President Hu Jintao of China at the White House for Wednesday's state dinner. Displays of harmony belied a more fractious relationship (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (73%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); RELIGION (54%); PROPERTY CRIMES (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



517 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: In Words at Least, Subtle Signs of Progress in U.S.-China Relations

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Chinese have striven to lend this week's state visit by President Hu Jintao the aura of a fresh start, from feel-good displays of friendly Chinese in Times Square to a Washington newspaper insert that declared on Wednesday that his meeting with President Obama could open a new chapter in a relationship between the world's two economic giants that had been troubled.
That much is doubtful. But for the first time in months, the two leaders may at least have started reading from the same book. 
After a 2010 notable mostly for Chinese acrimony toward the United States and its policies, Mr. Hu came to the White House not only saying that constructive relations between the two powers were essential, but also offering some modest concessions to demonstrate it. In a joint statement issued Wednesday, the Chinese for the first time expressed public concern over North Korea's recent disclosure of a modern uranium-enrichment plant, a small but ardently sought step in American efforts to press Kim Jong-il to roll back his nuclear weapons program.
More surprising, perhaps, Mr. Hu said at a White House news conference that ''a lot still needs to be done in China in terms of human rights,'' an unusual admission for a government that recently called the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to one of its dissidents a Western plot to embarrass Beijing.
Words, of course, are easier than deeds. ''I don't equate new rhetoric with new reality in China,'' said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a Brookings Institution scholar who was President Bill Clinton's national security adviser on China issues. ''But at least new rhetoric is better than nothing.''
So, in a sense, were the events of Wednesday. Neither side made any significant progress, much less any breakthrough, on the larger problems that have bedeviled relations ever since Mr. Obama made his state visit to Beijing in November 2009. On the American side, that includes revaluing China's currency, leveling the playing field for American investors in China and establishing a serious discourse between the nations' militaries.
For the Chinese, the biggest thorns include American arms sales to Taiwan, its continued support of the Dalai Lama and what a Chinese journalist at Wednesday's news conference called ''strategic mistrust'' -- the fear that the United States is seeking to encircle China and suppress its rise.
Still, each side came away from the meeting with something it could point to as an accomplishment, however modest.
The White House had set out to keep relations from sliding even further downhill, and to establish a more personal relationship with Mr. Hu that could sustain ties during the next two years, when the political realities of choosing leaders in both countries will work against any significant improvement.
Mr. Obama appears to have gotten that. For his part, Mr. Hu was, by American accounts, fixated on engineering a state visit that would portray China as an equal partner with the United States, and China's president as a successful, internationally recognized statesman. He got that, too.
Both leaders should also reap domestic political benefits from their meeting. Mr. Hu's enhanced stature, American analysts say, should help him tamp down political forces that have driven a more aggressive foreign policy and hamstrung relations with the United States and China's Pacific neighbors in the last year.
Mr. Hu and China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, ''realize this assertiveness based in the last year on nationalism and the belief that the U.S. is declining has gotten them into deep trouble,'' said Joseph S. Nye Jr., the former dean at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and a State Department and Pentagon official in the Carter and Clinton administrations. Mr. Nye was in Washington for a luncheon with Mr. Hu at the State Department. ''They think a summit which could be played as a success can give them ammunition to quiet down this rumbling below in the ranks.''
For his part, Mr. Obama comes away from the visit with a new reputation for toughness in his China policy, something that is likely to please conservatives and some liberals alike.
In the past week, the president's cabinet members loosed a fusillade of speeches intended to lay out the administration's differences with Beijing for all to see. And at Wednesday's public sessions with Mr. Hu, Mr. Obama repeatedly raised concerns about China's currency, its foot-dragging in stopping the pirating of American software and other intellectual property, its poor human rights record and, boldest of all, China's refusal to talk to the Dalai Lama.
Critics on Mr. Obama's left have accused him of soft-pedaling human rights since the start of his presidency, when Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton played down the need to raise rights concerns in public during a visit to Beijing. This time, Mr. Obama invited human rights advocates to the White House for a meeting on China in the days before Mr. Hu's arrival, and raised the issue from the beginning on Wednesday, in his remarks welcoming Mr. Hu to the White House.
Mr. Obama also had a ''very serious'' discussion on human rights with Mr. Hu during a private dinner in the White House on Tuesday, Mr. Lieberthal said.
''The administration feels this is about managing a very complicated and very important relationship -- and I stress 'managing,' '' he said. ''This is not a relationship where everything is going to come out right.''
Whether baby steps on human-rights language and other issues will show staying power after Mr. Hu returns to Beijing and the cauldron of domestic politics is an open question, Mr. Lieberthal and other experts said. But for now, ''progress is progress,'' said Nina Hachigian, a veteran analyst on United States-China relations at the Center for American Progress, a Democratic-leaning research group. ''And even if it's incremental progress, it's better than no progress at all.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 22, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A news analysis article on Thursday about steps by President Hu Jintao of China to improve relations with Washington during his state visit there this week gave an outdated academic position for Joseph S. Nye Jr., a former State Department and Pentagon official who commented on Mr. Hu's approach to diplomacy. Mr. Nye is a professor at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard; he is no longer the dean. (That position is now held by David T. Ellwood.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a news conference with President Obama at the White House on Wednesday, President Hu Jintao said that China ''recognizes and also respects the universality of human rights.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); WRITERS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DALAI LAMA (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); KIM JONG IL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



518 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Cameron Seeks Vast Changes In England's Health Service

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

 BODY:
LONDON -- Prime Minister David Cameron on Wednesday proposed a radical reorganization of England's health care system, introducing legislation that would hand responsibility for most of the country's health budget to its 42,000 general practitioners and, his political opponents say, open the door to private competition that could threaten the foundations of socialized care.
Mr. Cameron argues that the bill, said to be the biggest overhaul of the National Health Service since it was founded in 1948, is essential to increase efficiency and allow doctors, patients and localities more control of how the health budget is spent.
Yet the prime minister, who promised during last year's election campaign that he had no radical plans to change the health service, faces formidable opposition from a wide array of critics. These include the British Medical Association, members of Mr. Cameron's own Conservative Party, patient advocates, health care specialists, health workers' unions and even many of the primary care doctors who are supposed to benefit under the proposals. 
''We feel, and many others feel, that this reform is too much, too complicated and not necessary in terms of organizational change,'' Dr. Clare Gerada, chairwoman of the Royal College of General Practitioners, said in an interview. ''Nobody's been able to convince anyone I've spoken to why we're doing it.''
The complaints include criticisms that the plan is ill thought out, that it will prove too costly at a time of budgetary retrenchment and that the competition and choice it promises will cause confusion and duplication, and encourage decision-making based on cost rather than quality. In the eyes of conspiracy-minded Labour politicians, however, the bill is a stalking horse for the eventual privatization of health care.
''My concern, in the long run, is that this is opening up the whole of the N.H.S., all areas, to competition and private health companies,'' John Healey, the Labour health spokesman, told The Daily Telegraph.
The bill would allow general practitioners to commission services from ''any willing provider,'' which the government says would encourage efficiency and quality, as providers competed for business.
But the N.H.S. Confederation, which represents organizations in the health service, says this will lead to the closing of some hospitals and a move toward a more disjointed system in which private companies pick up the slack. Already there are signs that American companies are stepping in to provide consulting and commissioning services.
''Forcing commissioners of care to tender contracts to any willing provider, including N.H.S. providers, voluntary sector organizations and commercial companies, could destabilize local health economies and fragment care for patients,'' Hamish Meldrum, chairman of the British Medical Association Council -- the group's executive committee -- said in a statement.
Other critics said the changes would simply not deliver the results Mr. Cameron promised. ''The real choice is not between stability and change, but between reforms that are well executed and deliver results for patients, and reforms that are poorly planned and risk undermining the N.H.S.,'' Chris Ham, chief executive of the King's Fund, an independent research group focusing on health care, said in a statement.
But Mr. Cameron is committed to making ''fundamental'' changes. ''I don't think there is an option of just quietly standing still, staying where we are and putting a bit more money into the N.H.S.,'' he told BBC Radio this week.
Under the government's plan, some $127 billion a year -- about 80 percent of the total health care budget -- would be handed directly to the country's 42,000 general practitioners, who would join together into consortia that would negotiate to buy treatment from hospitals and specialists. The 151 bodies that currently make such spending decisions, known as primary care trusts, would be abolished, as would another layer of bureaucracy, 10 regional groups known as Strategic Health Authorities.
In order to help take politics out of the system, the government says, the N.H.S. would be administered by a new, independent body, known as the N.H.S. Commissioning Board.
The changes apply only to England; other parts of Britain have separate systems. Despite the opposition to the proposals, the government's parliamentary majority means that the bill is likely to pass, possibly in altered form after it has made its way through the legislative process.
The government argues that the plan will cut waste, allow patients more autonomy over their treatment and give doctors and localities, rather than bureaucrats, more direct control of the system. Like other health care systems around the world, the N.H.S., which provides treatment free at the point of service, has struggled to keep up with rising costs and increased demand.
The government points out that doctors across nearly half of England have already formed consortia. Dr. Ken Aswani, who works in Waltham Forest outside London, told the BBC: ''We will be looking to build on what we have been doing in recent years. That means getting services out of hospitals and into the community where they are more accessible.''
Dr. Michael Dixon, chairman of the N.H.S. Alliance, which supports clinicians' ability to commission health care, said it was inevitable that the proposals would provoke opposition.
''Giving power to frontline clinicians and their patients is bound to upset those with vested interests, such as some of the more centralist senior N.H.S. managers who are used to ruling the roost,'' Dr. Dixon said.
But opposition has been gathering since Mr. Cameron gave notice of his intentions last summer. One issue, Dr. Gerada said, is that the reorganization -- which was included in the small print of the governing coalition's election manifestos, but not raised in the campaign -- seems like another in a wearying series of changes.
In the 1990s, John Major's Conservative government gave general practitioners the option of being ''fundholders,'' letting them buy treatment for their patients. About half of England's general practitioners joined the program, which was scrapped when Labour took power in 1997. Labour then introduced the Strategic Health Authorities, which the government seeks to abandon.
''We've had so many top-down reorganizations in this health service,'' Dr. Gerada said. ''It's like planting a plant, pulling it up every few years, looking at its roots and then putting it back into the earth -- instead of plucking out the weeds and trimming back the overgrowth while letting the garden flourish.''
Other critics say the proposals are too expensive, particularly when the health service is being deprived of the huge spending increases it received under 13 years of Labour government. Despite pledges to preserve the health budget from the severe cuts affecting most departments, the government is still demanding that the N.H.S. make $32 billion in efficiency savings by 2014.
The government estimates that 20,900 N.H.S. workers, mostly from the primary care trusts, are expected to lose their jobs, The Guardian reported, though some would probably be rehired by general practitioner groups.
One of the plan's boldest components is the pledge that patients will now get to choose their doctors, their hospitals and their treatments -- a radical proposal for a service in which patients can now sometimes wait months for specialist care.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister David Cameron leaving 10 Downing Street in London on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT DUNHAM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (67%); CLOSINGS (64%); LAYOFFS (53%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: BRITISH MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011



519 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Volcker Rule May Work, Even if Vague

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
Paul A. Volcker is a giant of financial history. He played a behind-the-scenes role when the United States abandoned the gold standard in 1971. He restored credibility to the Federal Reserve and slew inflation a decade later.
In what would have been retirement years for anyone else, he became chairman of the group overseeing the International Accounting Standards Board and guided it to a level of independence that outraged French banks.
Now, at 83, he finally has something named for him. The question is whether it can be effective.
The Volcker Rule was part of the Dodd-Frank Act that Congress passed last year, barring banks from engaging in ''proprietary trading.'' 
When Mr. Volcker proposed it, the big banks at first wanted to kill it. But it became clear that the combination of his prestige and the bank's own bad reputations meant that something was going to pass.
So the banks settled for trying to hobble the rule with exceptions and qualifications.
Now it is up to regulators to adopt rules.
This week the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which was also created by Dodd-Frank and is led by the Treasury secretary and includes other financial regulators, put out a study and recommendations on the issue, providing at least a road map toward the rules that will come out within a few months.
The hurdle they face is simple: there is no easy way to tell a proprietary trade from another kind of trade, particularly given the exemptions worked into the law.
As the study noted on its first page, ''These permitted activities -- in particular, market making, hedging, underwriting and other transactions on behalf of customers -- often evidence outwardly similar characteristics to proprietary trading.''
To some extent, regulators have made it easier for banks to continue trading. The biggest potential loophole is market making, and the study took a broad view of that. It made clear that market makers may acquire securities because they expectcustomers to want them, not just because they already have orders.
That means, wrote Jaret Seiberg, an analyst with MF Global, that they ''need not worry that miscalculating customer demand would result in large penalties.'' He added that ''this seems even more positive than industry was expecting. The biggest banks would benefit the most from adoption of this type of proposal.''
But that goody may be more than balanced by the overall tenor of the report, which repeatedly cautions that regulators must be on the outlook for efforts to evade the rules.
''I think it is a good-faith effort to enforce what the law asks for,'' Mr. Volcker told me this week, after reading the report. ''It makes clear you cannot hide proprietary trading in other activities. It strikes me as very straightforward.''
Straightforward may not be the word that some bankers will choose. They had hoped for clear rules that could be complied with -- or evaded, if you want to be cynical. Instead, they got a lot of advice for regulators on how to monitor bank trading to see if it complies, using statistics invented for other purposes, like risk measurement.
Do banks tend to make the most money from a trade on the first day, rather than over time? Does the inventory of securities turn over quickly? Are daily profits relatively consistent? Negative answers could indicate proprietary trading and provide a reason for bank examiners to descend on a trading desk.
I have another metric that they might consider. What are the traders paid? If a trader is collecting millions in salary and bonus, you have to wonder whether he or she is merely trying to satisfy customer demand, as opposed to time markets.
The use of all those metrics, along with requirements for banks to monitor them and have clear policies, sounds scary to some. Winthrop N. Brown, a partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy who represents banks, said the council had done a good job in general, but ''I would be troubled if I were a chief compliance officer. It seems to be very burdensome.''
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2002 accomplished something with a provision that I thought superfluous, and the council picks up on that by suggesting that chief executives be required to certify that their banks are in compliance with the Volcker Rule, just as the earlier law forces them to certify the accuracy of financial statements. It turned out that certification concentrates attention, even if it does not change the underlying legal requirements.
Some think the concentration on proprietary trading is a little ridiculous. It was not, after all, such trading that produced the financial crisis. That came from bad loans and botched securitizations of such loans. Nothing in the Volcker Rule affects lending, and the law specifically says it is not to be used to hamper securitizations.
When I put that to Mr. Volcker, he pointed both to the problems at Societe Generale, the French bank that lost billions of euros because of a rogue trader, and to Bear Stearns, the first casualty of the financial crisis. Bear's problems first emerged in a hedge fund it ran, which it bailed out in an effort to preserve its reputation. Eventually, a liquidity crisis brought the bank down.
The new law tries to limit that by restricting bank investments in hedge funds. They can start them, but within a year are supposed to have a stake of no more than 3 percent.
There would be a case for the Volcker Rule even if such trading had not caused problems in the past. Banks are special, simply because they have deposit insurance, and there are limits that need to be imposed on the risks that such government-guaranteed banks take.
Of course banks can take plenty of risks without engaging in proprietary trading. Bad loans have brought down many a bank. But bank lending is something that society wants to encourage. Other forms of speculation may be perfectly reasonable, and even highly profitable much of the time, but their societal benefit is far less clear. Those who wish to gamble in that way ought to do so without such insurance.
In the end, the Volcker Rule may work, even if there are ways around it. Is it really worth the effort to dodge rules to do things that would be perfectly legal if someone else did them? If the regulators do put in the effort, the answer may be that few banks will bother.
Mr. Volcker himself professes optimism.
''I may not understand modern financial attitudes,'' he said, ''but I don't think a bank wants to be conducting financial activities that will be revealed as simply skirting the law.''
That optimism is, however, based on the assumption that regulators will put in the effort. For now, that is probably a good assumption. But it is worth noting that regulators are being asked to do a lot without a commensurate increase in resources. That may not hurt the Fed, which sets its own budget, but the Securities and Exchange Commission is getting stretched very thin and the new Republican House leadership shows no interest in fixing that.
The S.E.C. this week put out a report on inspections of financial advisers, as required by Dodd-Frank. The staff concluded that the commission would not have the resources to do enough inspections, and asked Congress to either allow it to impose fees on advisers to pay for the inspections or assign the task to self-regulatory organizations, which could impose similar fees.
One commissioner, Elisse Walter, voted to release the study but argued that it did not go far enough.
''We need to address this issue now,'' she concluded. ''For far too long, in the investment advisory area, the commission has been unable to perform its responsibilities adequately to fulfill its mission as the investor's advocate, and investment advisory clients have not been adequately protected. This must change.''
Regulatory priorities come and go. For now the Volcker Rule seems important, but then we are only a couple of years removed from the Madoff scandal. Yet it seems unlikely Congress will provide the needed resources to assure there are adequate inspections of money managers.
It may not be that many years before some banker concludes the possible profits from speculative trading are attractive enough to justify trying to get around a rule whose enforcement no longer seems to be a priority.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul A. Volcker, here testifying before the House Banking Committee in 1980, restored credibility to the Federal Reserve as its chairman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE TAMES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



520 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Bloc Presses Leaders to Slash Even More

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House Republican leaders confronted pressure from conservatives on Thursday to take more aggressive steps to cut federal spending, with a large group of lawmakers calling for outlays to be slashed by $2.5 trillion over the next decade, far more than the party has sought so far.
The proposal, from the Republican Study Committee, a conservative bloc that counts more than two-thirds of House Republicans as members, calls for immediate reductions of at least $100 billion, compared with cuts in the current fiscal year of up to $80 billion being sought by party leaders.
''We want more,'' said Representative Mick Mulvaney, a freshman from South Carolina. 
The $2.5 trillion in cuts would exclude the military, and would not touch the big entitlement programs, Medicare and Social Security. As a result, its effect on the entire array of government programs, among them education, domestic security, transportation, law enforcement and medical research, would be nothing short of drastic.
Committee leaders said this was appropriate and necessary, given the government's $14 trillion debt and annual deficits at their highest levels since the years just after World War II.
The cuts would require the agreement of the Democratic-controlled Senate and the White House, which is highly unlikely.
The study committee proposed generally reducing agency budgets to their levels in 2006 -- the last time Congressional Republicans controlled the budget process -- and then freezing them, with no annual inflation adjustments. It also recommended slashing the federal workforce by 15 percent and canceling pay raises for five years, for a total of $2.29 trillion in savings.
It did not specify how each agency would carry out the reductions.
The study committee's proposal includes an additional $330 billion in cuts to specific programs, including Amtrak, foreign aid and even the Washington subway system.
The proposal, while not specifically endorsed by the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, or other leaders, offers the clearest picture yet of the cuts envisioned by Republicans as they seek to rein in spending, which they view as a mandate given to them by voters in November.
''I have never seen the American people more receptive, more ready for the tough-love measures that need to be taken to help fix the country,'' said Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, the chairman of the study committee.
Some fiscal experts said the proposal was untenable, because it would cut much of the federal government nearly in half by 2020, including agencies like the Education Department. Some targets, like Amtrak, would potentially be put out of existence, they said.
The fight over federal spending levels is the highest priority for the new Republican majority other than repeal of the Democrats' health care overhaul.
And while party leaders said they welcomed all proposals for cuts, the pressure from the right -- including Tea Party-backed members and other new lawmakers elected on a platform of fiscal restraint -- threatened to complicate the battle with the Obama administration and to set unrealistic expectations among grass-roots conservatives eager to scale back government.
Even before the midterm elections, party leaders issued a ''Pledge to America,'' promising, without providing details of which programs would be cut, to reduce nonsecurity discretionary spending to 2008 levels, a cut that Mr. Boehner had initially pegged at about $100 billion for this fiscal year.
But with a temporary spending measure in place until early March -- more than five months into the fiscal year -- Republican leaders, including the Budget Committee chairman, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, have said that a more realistic goal would be cuts to 2008 levels prorated for the remainder of the fiscal year, or about $60 billion to $80 billion.
Conservative lawmakers, however, said that was not enough.
''Speaking with many of my freshmen colleagues, for us, myself included, the pledge, the $100 billion, was simply a start; it was simply a floor,'' Mr. Mulvaney, the South Carolina freshman, said at a news conference to unveil the study committee's proposal. He added: ''Anybody who is up to speed on budget issues should be scared to death by what's happening with the debt and the deficit in this country. If you're not losing sleep over it, then you're simply not paying attention.''
Some Republicans warned that the country was in danger.
''The greatest threat to the security and prosperity of the United States is our debt,'' said Representative John Campbell of California, a member of the study committee. ''We are much closer to the Greece, Ireland, Spain precipice than I think any of us would like to believe.''
A spokesman for Mr. Boehner, Michael Steel, said that Republican leaders were focused on fulfilling the pledge first. ''Our immediate goal is to cut spending to pre-bailout, pre-stimulus levels,'' Mr. Steel said. ''That's what we pledged, and that's what we'll fight for. But that will be the beginning, not the end.''
Mr. Boehner was not alone in praising the study committee's efforts without backing its plan.
''I applaud the Republican Study Committee,'' the House majority leader, Eric Cantor of Virginia, said in a statement. ''I look forward to the discussion on reducing spending that our country so desperately needs.''
Mr. Cantor said Republicans would also seek to end the system of financing presidential candidates and national party conventions with federal matching money. He said that the House would vote on the proposal next week and that it would save $520 million over 10 years if enacted.
The formal work on spending issues is scheduled to begin on the House floor next week when Republicans take up a resolution directing Mr. Ryan, the Budget Committee chairman, to set spending parameters at 2008 levels. The vote on that resolution is scheduled for Tuesday, just hours before Mr. Obama is due on Capitol Hill to give his State of the Union address and is intended to put Republicans squarely on offense in the spending fight.
Mr. Ryan has not put forward a specific plan for cuts. He is awaiting updated data from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office on current spending. He also did not endorse the study committee's plan.
Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, who served with Mr. Ryan on Mr. Obama's commission on lowering the national debt, said in an interview that the study committee's plan was ill-conceived and unworkable because it focused only on cuts to discretionary spending and not on overhauling the tax code or addressing entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security.
''The commission had about a trillion and a half of cuts, which I thought was at the edge of what could be done responsibly,'' Mr. Conrad said in an interview. ''They obviously have chosen to go beyond the edge.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama
Sarah Palin Former Alaska governor
 John A. Boehner House speaker CHARTS: Confronting the Nation's Fiscal Woes : In the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll, Americans say they prefer reducing government spending over raising taxes to tackle the federal budget deficit, but they are wary of cuts that include Medicare and Social Security. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); MEDICARE (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR FORCE (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

PERSON: MICK MULVANEY (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JIM JORDAN (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



521 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: In Sperling, a Political Strategist Known for Getting It Done

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Weeks ago, President Obama told confidants that Gene Sperling, a counselor at the Treasury Department, was ''indispensable.'' Yet the president wrestled with whether to name him as the chief White House economic adviser, even knowing Mr. Sperling might leave if passed over.
Mr. Obama finally promoted Mr. Sperling to director of the National Economic Council, the job Mr. Sperling held for Bill Clinton's second term, after weighing what Mr. Sperling offered against what he lacked: Mr. Sperling is not the business executive or new face that Mr. Obama initially sought.
What he is, say people in both parties, is a master at melding policy and politics, where others specialize in one or the other. That is despite work habits that for years spawned anecdotes of long hours and longer tables (to hold all the papers), spilled ink (details below) and late-night calls. By all accounts, marriage and two children have made him more efficient since his time in the Clinton circle, though his Treasury office was called BOG, pun intended, for Bureau of Gene. 
''The N.E.C. director job is uniquely well-suited for Gene because this is a job which is about figuring out what the economic policy should be, building consensus among policy makers and making sure that the policies are going to have the right impact in the real world,'' said Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer at Facebook and a Treasury official in the Clinton administration.
And, she added, ''he gets things done.''
In the end, Obama associates say, the president decided that getting things done -- like the tax cut deal with Republicans that Mr. Sperling helped him win last month and the bipartisan agreements Mr. Clinton reached with Mr. Sperling's help during a similar period of divided government in the 1990s -- is critical. That would be harder for corporate chief executives who have not navigated Washington's power corridors, as the 52-year-old Mr. Sperling has for decades.
''Gene is an excellent choice,'' said R. Glenn Hubbard, dean of Columbia Business School and chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President George W. Bush.
Mr. Hubbard said Mr. Sperling often sought his views during the Clinton years, adding that ''Gene was always very active in reaching out to people who didn't agree.''
While Mr. Hubbard calls Mr. Sperling a centrist, and critics on the left agree, Mr. Sperling has always considered himself a liberal who is pragmatic about what is possible in politics, much like Mr. Obama.
He fit Mr. Obama's job description in other ways, associates say. With Republicans holding more power in Congress, Mr. Obama wanted someone to help him engage them on issues like deficit reduction. The president is looking for more creative ideas to spur the economy; Lawrence H. Summers, who left as director last month to return to Harvard, was better known for shooting down the ideas of others.
And Mr. Obama wanted someone adept at political strategy and messaging, knowing he must do a better job selling his agenda if he is to be re-elected.
Mr. Sperling worked in the 1988 presidential campaign of Michael Dukakis and then for Gov. Mario Cuomo of New York before he was recruited to the 1992 Clinton campaign by his friend from the Dukakis days, George Stephanopoulos. His first assignment was to pull together, in two weeks, Mr. Clinton's populist paperback manifesto, ''Putting People First.''
''I always joke that we spent the night together the first time we met,'' said Bruce Reed, the incoming chief of staff to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. When the men finally retired to a hotel room after 3 a.m., Mr. Sperling began asking about a campaign initiative ''and we stayed up the rest of the night talking about policy,'' Mr. Reed said.
Colleagues still recall a campaign meeting where Mr. Sperling outlined a jobs initiative for Mr. Clinton. A habitual pen-chewer, he bit down so hard that ink dribbled down his chin.
When Mr. Clinton, as president, created the National Economic Council, Mr. Sperling became deputy to its first director, Robert E. Rubin, the Wall Street financier and later Treasury secretary. Mr. Sperling was director from 1997 to 2001, when Republicans controlled Congress, and helped negotiate bipartisan deals on the budget and trade.
Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, a Republican who was then chairman of the House Budget Committee, said: ''When we ran up against a roadblock'' in drafting the 1997 balanced budget agreement, ''we could chat privately. That's why we got the deal done.''
G. William Hoagland, then an adviser to Senate Republicans, said that as talks dragged on, ''I'd go home late and I'll be damned if I didn't get calls at 11 or midnight from Gene.''
Among the concessions he extracted were provisions creating a children's health insurance program, college scholarships and a tax credit for families with children. Yet Mr. Sperling ''held up the whole agreement almost single-handedly because he did not think the way they designed the child tax credit was fair to low-income families,'' said Robert Greenstein, founder of the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. It was altered.
Mr. Sperling also dealt with Social Security, another issue confronting Mr. Obama. He is best known for a rhetorical gambit -- Mr. Clinton's ''Save Social Security First'' line in his 1998 State of the Union address.
As officials prepared for the speech, it became clear that Mr. Clinton would be able to forecast the first surplus in decades. But they feared it could soon vanish because Republicans were demanding big tax cuts and Democrats were demanding more spending.
Mr. Rubin advised Mr. Clinton to explain to Americans the importance of reducing the federal debt. Others argued that was not something people could relate to. Mr. Sperling soon came back with a simple solution: If Mr. Clinton said ''save Social Security first,'' any new tax cuts or spending would be seen as coming at the expense of Social Security, whose surpluses had helped put the overall budget in the black.
Mr. Sperling spent the Bush years mostly at policy institutes and leading global education projects alongside Bono and Angelina Jolie. With money from Goldman Sachs, he ran its charitable project providing business training to women in poor nations. He was a consultant for the television show ''West Wing,'' and married one of its writers, Allison Abner.
He also wrote a book, ''The Pro-Growth Progressive,'' embodying his view that both government and markets have roles in promoting equitable economic growth.
And he offered advice to a Democratic senator writing a similar book -- earning Mr. Obama's acknowledgment in ''The Audacity of Hope.''
Yet when Mr. Obama ran for president, Mr. Sperling was part of Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign brain trust. He later helped on the Obama campaign and transition, ''but in the musical chairs'' for top jobs, ''there was no chair for him,'' said John Podesta, a former Clinton administration chief of staff who headed the transition.
Mr. Sperling took the untitled Treasury job advising Secretary Timothy F. Geithner on policy.
''That was disappointing to Gene, but he really wanted to serve,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''And he found a niche.''
Among other things, he helped Mr. Obama create a $30 billion fund for loans to small businesses.
Unsuccessfully, he argued that the administration should quickly seek to extend the expiring Bush-era tax cuts only for taxable incomes below $250,000.
When Republicans' midterm election gains empowered them to demand extending the tax cuts for all incomes, Mr. Sperling helped to devise the stimulus package Mr. Obama won in exchange, including a one-year payroll tax cut, and to sell the compromise to unhappy liberals in Congress.
His performance persuaded Mr. Obama to promote him, aides say. So did the advocacy of Mr. Biden, Mr. Geithner and Mr. Clinton.
''There's no one who marries politics and policy as well,'' said Joshua Steiner, a former Clinton administration colleague. ''So when Gene gets a seat at the table, over time he gets recognized.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gene Sperling, the new top White House economic adviser.(B1)
 President Obama appointed Gene Sperling as director of the National Economic Council earlier this month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); TAX LAW (63%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); SHERYL SANDBERG (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



522 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Banks Want Pieces Of Fannie-Freddie Pie

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
As the Obama administration prepares a report on the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, some of the nation's largest banks are offering a few suggestions.
Wells Fargo and some other large banks would like private companies, perhaps even themselves, to become the new housing finance giants helping to bundle individual mortgages into securities -- that would be stamped with a government guarantee.
The banks have presented their ideas publicly through trade groups. Housing industry consultants and people familiar with recent meetings at the Treasury Department say these banks view the government's overhaul of the mortgage market as a potential profit opportunity. Treasury officials have met with executives from several institutions, including Wells Fargo, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse, according to a public listing of the meetings. 
The administration's report, to be released later this month, is expected to be sweeping and could address basic questions like whether a government guarantee is needed at all for middle-class homeowners. While other arms of the government are dedicated to making loans available to lower-income borrowers, Fannie and Freddie have helped lower rates for the bulk of homeowners. Some Republicans are trying to narrow this broad role, and on Thursday, several conservative researchers released a proposal on how to do so. But banks, for their part, have told the administration that removing the guarantee would wipe out the widespread availability of the 30-year mortgage, fundamentally reshaping the American housing market. Though some other countries do not promote long mortgages, some analysts warn that such a change would be devastating to the market here. At firms like Goldman, analysts are predicting that a government guarantee on a broad swath of mortgage securities will survive in some form.
A spokesman for the Treasury declined to comment on the administration's plans, but one former Treasury official warned against the banks' proposal.
''I don't think that private shareholder-owned entities should issue federal government guarantees,'' said Michael S. Barr, who worked on housing issues at the Treasury Department until the end of last month and then returned to his job as a law professor at the University of Michigan. ''I think that creates the same conflict we had in the past.''
Mr. Barr said that banks with the largest mortgage businesses had suggested that they be allowed to issue the government's guarantee, setting themselves up as a second-generation of Fannie and Freddie. As for the two housing giants, Mr. Barr said, ''No one argues for Fannie or Freddie to continue in their current form. It's just not politically plausible.''
Fannie and Freddie have been barred from lobbying the administration or Congress about their future since they were placed in government conservatorship more than two years ago. The companies are able to receive unlimited aid from the Treasury Department until the end of 2012. In the meantime, they are administering some of the government's housing programs and enabling the housing market to sputter along through their guarantee of most new mortgages.
The administration's paper about the future of housing policy will probably address what should be done with Fannie's and Freddie's existing assets, a combined $1.5 trillion portfolio. That is entirely separate from the discussion about the future business model. Lawmakers will eventually decide if Fannie and Freddie will survive and if they can compete in the new model.
One trade association, the Mortgage Bankers Association, has suggested to the Treasury Department that the government might want to auction off Fannie and Freddie's assets, including their brands and their mortgage data, to private companies.
Wells Fargo has been most public in its support of the proposals, but JPMorgan Chase and other large banks helped develop the plans within trade groups. Michael J. Heid, the co-president of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, testified before Congress last year that allowing private companies to issue the guarantee would add ''innovation and efficiency'' to the process.
Asked about the proposals from the trade associations, Kristin Lemkau, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said: ''While we are members of these groups, we have not endorsed any specific proposal.''
Still, some housing experts critical of the idea warn that giving the large banks a bigger role could lead to an even greater concentration in a market already dominated by a few big players. And they warn that the banks are unlikely to add the affordable housing assistance that Fannie and Freddie provided. Furthermore, they do not see why private entities should profit from the government's good credit standing.
Several housing consultants pointed out that the banks' latest proposals resemble ideas that banks circulated in Washington several years before the financial crisis. Back then, companies like General Electric, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan and the American International Group lobbied through a group called FM Watch, warning that Fannie and Freddie had too much power, had taken on too much risk and had unfair advantages in the marketplace. FM Watch disbanded in 2008, when Congress passed legislation requiring more regulation of the two housing giants.
Representatives of the industry say the entities they are now proposing would be less risky because the government would have strict oversight of them as well as the ability to require hefty amounts of capital to back the mortgage bonds. They also say that companies would pay a fee for the government guarantee, which would cover losses above a certain level. That level has not yet been determined.
In at least one version being proposed, the private companies would have to be separate enough from banks that they could not be pulled down by a bank's collapse. Also, the proposals say the government would guarantee only the mortgage bonds, and not the private companies. However, the government never explicitly guaranteed the survival of Fannie and Freddie or their mortgage bonds; nonetheless it ultimately stepped in to back both.
Still, another trade group, the Housing Policy Council, an arm of the Financial Services Roundtable, expects banks to look for ways to become licensed to help issue government-guaranteed mortgage bonds.
''I wouldn't be surprised if some banks did,'' said John H. Dalton, president of the council and the former president of Ginnie Mae, an arm of the government that backs mortgages.
John P. Gibbons, an executive vice president of capital markets at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, said the bank is not eager to own one of the new private companies playing this role, but that it would consider doing so if it thought it was necessary for the market.
''In general we still support those positions because we think they are ways of bringing private capital back into mortgage finance,'' he said.
It is unclear just how profitable the new business may be. Mr. Heid, the Wells Fargo executive, told Congress that private investors in the companies should receive a ''reasonable'' return, but he did not say how much.
Jay Brinkmann, chief economist of the Mortgage Bankers Association, which has a similar proposal to the Housing Policy Council's plan, said his group is ''not trying to protect profits for a handful of banks.''
''I don't think anybody is going to be making the kind of profit that Fannie and Freddie were making in their heyday,'' he said.
Even if large banks are not allowed to give a government guarantee, they might have control over the private companies by investing in them or by placing representatives on their boards.
There is a risk that small banks would be shut out of the market and consumers would face higher costs on their mortgages, said Mark Willis, resident research fellow at New York University's Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy.
''Some fear that a market ruled by a few large banks will limit access to the secondary market by smaller, local institutions,'' said Mr. Willis, who visited Treasury officials in November to discuss the issues.
Mr. Willis pointed out that the mortgage market has become more concentrated since the financial crisis, as several prominent originators -- like Wachovia and Washington Mutual -- hit trouble and were sold to larger banks.
If the government decides to continue offering a guarantee for a broad swath of securities backed by mortgages to middle-class homeowners, it does not have to use a private company. A government agency could issue that guarantee, much the way the Federal Housing Administration does now for borrowers with lower incomes or other factors that disqualify them from conventional loans.
The banks' proposals also throw out Fannie and Freddie's longtime role in affordable housing. Part of the reason the housing giants enjoyed such broad support from lawmakers was because they aided low-income borrowers. Banking associations say that distorted and endangered the two companies and that any new companies should not be saddled with those responsibilities. Instead, the banks say, the private companies could pay a fee to the government to support such lending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Barr, right, who recently worked at the Treasury Department, warned against some bank proposals on housing finance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



523 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: China Goes To Nixon

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
With Hu Jintao, China's president, currently visiting the United States, stories about growing Chinese economic might are everywhere. And those stories are entirely true: although China is still a poor country, it's growing fast, and given its sheer size it's well on the way to matching America as an economic superpower.
What's also true, however, is that China has stumbled into a monetary muddle that's getting worse with each passing month. Furthermore, the Chinese government's response to the problem -- with policy seemingly paralyzed by deference to special interests, lack of intellectual clarity and a resort to blame games -- belies any notion that China's leaders can be counted on to act decisively and effectively. In fact, the Chinese come off looking like, well, us. 
How bad will it get? Warnings from some analysts that China could trigger a global crisis seem overblown. But the fact that people are saying such things is an indication of how out of control the situation looks right now.
The root cause of China's muddle is its weak-currency policy, which is feeding an artificially large trade surplus. As I've emphasized in the past, this policy hurts the rest of the world, increasing unemployment in many other countries, America included.
But a policy can be bad for us without being good for China. In fact, Chinese currency policy is a lose-lose proposition, simultaneously depressing employment here and producing an overheated, inflation-prone economy in China itself.
One way to think about what's happening is that inflation is the market's way of undoing currency manipulation. China has been using a weak currency to keep its wages and prices low in dollar terms; market forces have responded by pushing those wages and prices up, eroding that artificial competitive advantage. Some estimates I've heard suggest that at current rates of inflation, Chinese undervaluation could be gone in two or three years -- not soon enough, but sooner than many expected.
China's leaders are, however, trying to prevent this outcome, not just to protect exporters' interest, but because inflation is even more unpopular in China than it is elsewhere. One big reason is that China already in effect exploits its citizens through financial repression (other kinds, too, but that's not relevant here). Interest rates on bank deposits are limited to just 2.75 percent, which is below the official inflation rate -- and it's widely believed that China's true inflation rate is substantially higher than its government admits.
Rapidly rising prices, even if matched by wage increases, will make this exploitation much worse. It's no wonder that the Chinese public is angry about inflation, and that China's leaders want to stop it.
But for whatever reason -- the power of export interests, refusal to do anything that looks like giving in to U.S. demands or sheer inability to think clearly -- they're not willing to deal with the root cause and let their currency rise. Instead, they are trying to control inflation by raising interest rates and restricting credit.
This is destructive from a global point of view: with much of the world economy still depressed, the last thing we need is major players pursuing tight-money policies. More to the point from China's perspective, however, is that it's not working. Credit limits are proving hard to enforce and are being further undermined by inflows of hot money from abroad.
With efforts to cool the economy falling short, China has been trying to limit inflation with price controls -- a policy that rarely works. In particular, it's a policy that failed dismally the last time it was tried here, during the Nixon administration. (And, yes, this means that right now China is going to Nixon.)
So what's left? Well, China has turned to the blame game, accusing the Federal Reserve (wrongly) of creating the problem by printing too much money. But while blaming the Fed may make Chinese leaders feel better, it won't change U.S. monetary policy, nor will it do anything to tame China's inflation monster.
Could all of this really turn into a full-fledged crisis? If I didn't know my economic history, I'd find the idea implausible. After all, the solution to China's monetary muddle is both simple and obvious: just let the currency rise, already.
But I do know my economic history, which means that I know how often governments refuse, sometimes for many years, to do the obviously right thing -- and especially when currency values are concerned. Usually they try to keep their currencies artificially strong rather than artificially weak; but it can be a big mess either way.
So our newest economic superpower may indeed be on its way to some kind of economic crisis, with collateral damage to the world as a whole. Did we need this?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); EXPORT PRICES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



524 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Closing the Door on Carmelo Anthony

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
You do have to hand it to the N.B.A. Just when it concluded one big off-season divafest that everyone thought could not be topped for sheer audacity and narcissism, it simply rolled on to a big in-season divafest. What the Carmelo Anthony story lacks in hourlong television debacles, it gains in dragging an oligarch all the way from Russia to proclaim the situation a circus.
Mikhail D. Prokhorov's appearance Wednesday night to announce he was pulling his hapless Nets from the race for Anthony's services was worthy of a big tent and clowns. Lots of the weary people whose jobs entailed chronicling this sideshow were quick to laud the owner for his decision. The New York Post's George Willis called him gutsy and SI.com's Chris Mannix declared it a bold move. CBSSports.com's Ken Berger used the word savvy and made him sound positively heroic. 
One of the few dissenters, Adrian Wojnarowski of Yahoo.com, preferred to proclaim him one more clueless owner adding to the Nets' history of incompetence, but The Newark Star-Ledger's Dave D'Alessandro was most poetic in describing the Nets' peculiar brand of chaos and said Prokhorov looked like the ''stern headmaster in a really wacky private school.''
The funny thing is, no one chose to point out that Prokhorov should have been thrilled with four months of speculation about an Anthony trade because otherwise the Nets would have gotten exactly zero attention outside of people occasionally noting that they stink. Again.
The natural pivot for this story is toward the Knicks, although ESPN.com's Chris Sheridan throws a bucket of water on the idea that Anthony will be traded there.
The other natural reaction is a deepening fatigue, although you can almost hear N.B.A. fans' collective eye roll when Dwyane Wade proclaimed he was tired of hearing about Anthony deals. It is more than a bit priceless that Anthony keeps saying he doesn't want to stray into LeBron territory because that's exactly where he's headed, writes Mitch Lawrence in The Daily News. Fanhouse.com's Sam Amick writes hopefully that other young N.B.A. stars are learning from these sad spectacles, but you are allowed to suspect they are learning all the wrong things. (Hey, could I get Jim Gray to ask me inane questions for an hour on ESPN?!)
Perhaps the most amazing thing about Prokhorov's news conference on Wednesday was that it almost completely blotted out the Jets from the New York metropolitan area news for a bit. Of course, the Jets are contributing to this by veering widely out of character and failing to insult anyone leading up to Sunday's American Football Conference championship game against the Steelers. The Daily News's Filip Bondy, for one, thinks this is just no fun at all.
At this point, the N.F.L. might consider paying Rex Ryan to spout off on something new, as a diversion from anyone pondering what Yahoo.com's Dan Wetzel describes as the league's latest performance-enhancing drug of choice, which involves deer antlers. (Insert ''Huh?'' sound here.) And the league definitely doesn't want you thinking hard about the fact that it is charging $200 for the right to hang out outside Cowboys Stadium during the Super Bowl. They're calling it the ''party zone,'' counting its participants in the game attendance and doing this all while everyone predicts a labor stoppage after the Super Bowl. Alex Marvez of Foxsports.com wants someone to explain how a league enjoying record television ratings and the gall to charge $200 for a parking lot party can cry economic hardship.
While you are contemplating gall, you might enjoy diverting your attention to a USA Today article about the N.C.A.A.'s response to recent criticism of its leadership by adding security. Or how Oregon built a new basketball court that is annoying everyone, partly because its questionable aesthetics do not include things like a halfcourt line.
At the Australian Open, when you're not busy questioning Venus Williams's wardrobe choices, you might wonder how on earth Todd Woodbridge managed to wander into the ridiculous thicket of asking Kim Clijsters whether she is pregnant during a sideline television interview.
It was a blunder so absurd that he might now be involved in trade rumors involving the Nets.
Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (65%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



525 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: In the Heat of the Tunisian Revolution

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''More Officials Quit in Tunisia Amid Protests'' (front page, Jan. 19):
I am optimistic about the future of Tunisia. Its large and growing middle class was exasperated by the criminal activity of its president. Its children -- young, well-educated men and women -- took to the streets to challenge their corrupt president. Their agenda was simple: freedom and democracy, not Islamic fundamentalism.
Habib Bourguiba, Tunisia's first president, sowed the seeds of the Jasmine Revolution with his social and educational reforms of the 1960s and '70s. They are a foundation for political change. Fifty years later, the grandchildren of Tunisia's independence generation have opened the door to democratic reform. 
At this time of upheaval, Tunisians in the streets are already answering skeptics who ask, ''Where are the experienced leaders who can carry out democratic reforms?'' One told an NPR reporter: ''The answer is all around you. Look at us; we are educated, intelligent and capable of creating a government that works.'' They certainly are.
Lewis Cohen Washington, Jan. 19, 2011
The writer, a retired Foreign Service officer, was a Peace Corps volunteer in Tunis.
To the Editor:
Re ''New Government Feels the Force of Tunisian Ire'' (front page, Jan. 18):
Two months ago, I was having a picnic lunch on the tree-lined Bourguiba Boulevard in downtown Tunis. It was indeed a peaceful day and an idyllic setting for people-watching.
I could not help noticing what seemed like hundreds of young people milling about talking or engaged in their social network gadgets. A few came up to me after realizing that I was a foreigner. We spoke about the United States and, in particular, New York City. They all mentioned a lack of job opportunities, even though they had advanced degrees from the free Tunisian universities.
I vividly remember one conversation with a young woman who held an advanced degree in electrical engineering. She related that to make ends meet, she had to work in a souvenir shop and make the equivalent of less than $100 a month. All her college friends held menial jobs or none at all.
I sincerely hope that the Jasmine Revolution brings peace and democracy to Tunisia. Certainly the young people deserve the economic opportunities that are enjoyed by their peers from other developed countries.
Elliot J. Moritz Chestnut Ridge, N.Y., Jan. 18, 2011
To the Editor:
Although the situation in Tunisia may provide an exciting model for the Arab world, it should be remembered that the differences between Tunisia and other Arab countries are stark, not least of which are levels of affluence and the size and population of the country.
Without discounting the efforts of the people in places like Egypt, Morocco and Yemen, change will unfortunately require a good degree of top-down initiative. One can only hope that the aftermath of the revolution in Tunisia is peaceful, necessary for it to provide a convincing lesson to the people and leadership in other Arab countries.
Unfortunately, counting on the insights of these authoritarian regimes hasn't proved to be a good bet in the past. Thus, it is important that hopes for stable and concrete change remain realistic.
Harvey Stark
Vancouver, British Columbia
Jan. 15, 2011
To the Editor:
As the United States seeks a way to prosecute Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, we would do well to remind ourselves how eager the governments of the world have always been to invoke ''national security'' as grounds for keeping their dirty deeds from the public. And as the recent events in Tunisia show, WikiLeaks makes it a bit harder for such people to get away with that sort of behavior. We forget this at our peril.
Steve Baughman San Francisco, Jan. 15, 2011
The writer is a human rights lawyer.
To the Editor:
Any doubts about the power of cellphones, Twitter and Facebook to influence social movements should be laid to rest with the recent events in Tunisia. Anyone subject to political repression anywhere can now be an influential ''minister without portfolio,'' able to organize and call the people into the streets to demand reform.
Tim Burke Middletown, N.J., Jan. 17, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PEP MONTSERRAT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (76%); WOMEN (76%); WRITERS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (71%); POPULATION SIZE (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); VOLUNTEERS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); FUNDAMENTALISM (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) TUNISIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



526 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 2568 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUSO

 BODY:
Around Town
Museums and Sites
American Museum of Natural History (Tuesday through Jan. 30) ''Global Weekends: Brain and the Tibetan Creative Mind'' has a series of events -- some participatory and led by monks -- presented in conjunction with the exhibition ''Brain: The Inside Story,'' an interactive exhibition that blends technology, history and neuroscience. Among the activities are meditation sessions (Tuesday and Wednesday); workshops in making sand mandalas or designs (Tuesday through Thursday); and performances of music and dance associated with Buddhism (Wednesday); most events are free with museum admission. Also opening on Tuesday, ''Body and Spirit: Tibetan Medical Paintings,'' an exhibition of 64 contemporary reproductions, on view through July 17. ''Sea Rex: Journey to a Prehistoric World,'' an Imax film that looks at sea creatures of the past, will be shown every hour on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Through May 30, ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter,'' an annual display of hundreds of free-flying butterflies. Timed viewings are every 15 minutes, beginning at 10:15 a.m.; museum hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Central Park West and 79th Street , (212) 769-5200, amnh.org; suggested general admission: $16; $12 for students and 60+; $9 for ages 2 to 12. For Imax admission and timed tickets to ''Brain: The Inside Story'' and ''Butterfly Conservatory,'' $24 (includes museum admission), $18 for students and 60+ and $14 for children ages 2 to 12. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Journey to the Stars'') and all special exhibitions: $32; $24.50 for students and 60+; $20 for 2 to 12 (adult members, $16; 2 to 12, $11.50). All tickets purchased online require an additional fee.20110120 
Historic Richmond Town (Saturday) A performance by the jug band Wahoo Skiffle Crazies. Part of the Tavern Concert series; reservations necessary, Ext. 281. At 7:30 and 9 p.m., 441 Clarke Avenue, Staten Island , (718) 351-1611, historicrichmondtown.org; $15, $12 for members.20110120
Merchant's House Museum (Thursday) An exhibition of 19th-century valentines, including those handmade and manufactured. (Through Feb. 28.) From noon to 5 p.m., 29 East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 777-1089, merchantshouse.org; $10; $5 for students and 65+; free for members and children under 12 (with an adult).20110120
Morris-Jumel Mansion (Saturday) ''The Dutch Influence on the American Kitchen and Life,'' a lecture by the food historian Peter G. Rose. At 2 p.m. Registration is required: (212) 923-8008. 65 Jumel Terrace, 65 Jumel Terrace, at 161st Street, east of St. Nicholas Avenue, Harlem , morrisjumel.org; free. 20110120
Museum of the City of New York (Wednesday and Thursday) Long a muse for writers, artists and photographers, the Brooklyn Bridge will be the topic of conversation among some who have been captivated by it, including Richard Haw, author of ''Art of the Brooklyn Bridge: A Visual History''; the artist and author Bascove; and Jonathan Smith, a photographer; Wednesday at 6:30 p.m., co-sponsored by the Design Trust for Public Space and presented in conjunction with the exhibition ''Glorious Sky: Herbert Katzman's New York,'' through Feb. 21. A lecture on the economic impact of the Great Depression on women as well as men will be given by Linda Gordon, author of ''Dorothea Lange: A Life Beyond Limits''; Thursday at 6:30 p.m., presented in conjunction with the exhibition ''Denys Wortman Rediscovered,'' on view through March 20. Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street , (212) 534-1672, mcny.org; Each event $12, $8 for students and 62+, $6 for members.20110120
Events
Art in Bryant Park (through Feb. 2) Most of the holiday shops in the park have been dismantled, but two remaining kiosks near Avenue of the Americas have an exhibition of abstract and realist artworks by emerging New York artists. The show's title, ''Battle of the Brush: A Civil Re-enactment of Two Painterly States,'' draws upon the park's rich history as a prominent site during the Civil War as well as the Revolutionary War; the display is sponsored by Corporate Art Solutions, an art-leasing organization; the Bryant Park Corporation; and Upsilon Ventures, a development firm. Sunday through Thursday, 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 7 a.m. to midnight. bryantpark.org.20110120
The Black Monks of Mississippi (Saturday) ''If We Breathe,'' an interactive musical piece, will be sung and chanted by a quintet of singers and musicians moving through the museum, inviting members of the public to walk and hum along with them. The performers are members of the Black Monks of Mississippi, an ensemble that combines blues music with the soulful tradition of black churches and was founded by the performance artist Theaster Gates; Mr. Gates will direct the performance, which will incorporate meditative sutras. It is presented in conjunction with the exhibition ''Grain of Emptiness: Buddhism-Inspired Contemporary Art,'' on view through April 11; 20-minute performances, every hour from noon to 3 p.m. Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea , (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; included with admission: $10, $5 for students and 65+, free for children 12 and younger and members.20110120
Brooklyn Israel Film Festival (Thursday) This seventh festival of new films from Israel will feature three screenings, beginning with three episodes from ''Srugim,'' a television series about the Orthodox dating scene in Jerusalem; at 8 p.m., with a reception to follow. (Through Jan. 30.) Kane Street Synagogue, 236 Kane Street, at Court Street, Cobble Hill, Brooklyn , (718) 875-1550, kanestreet.org; $12.20110120
Brooklyn Public Library (Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) Kenneth T. Jackson, the editor of The Encyclopedia of New York City, will discuss the revisions he made to a new edition of the work; Sunday at 1:30 p.m. ''Hell of a Job,'' the second in a series of seven documentaries about South Africa titled ''Have You Heard From Johannesburg?,'' will be screened and discussed; Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. ''Haiti Noir'' features readings by the Haitian-born writers Edwidge Danticat, Marie Lily Cerat and Ibi Aanu Zoboi; Thursday at 7 p.m., Central Library, Dweck Center, Grand Army Plaza, at Flatbush Avenue and Eastern Parkway, Prospect Park , (718) 230-2100, brooklynpubliclibrary.org; free.20110120
Ceramic Display (through Feb. 17) ''Folly'' features a display of 50 miniature landscapes by the ceramic artist Beth Katleman in the Jane Hartsook Gallery. Tuesday through Saturday, noon to 6 p.m., Greenwich House Pottery, 16 Great Jones Street, second floor, Greenwich Village , (212) 242-4106, greenwichhouse.org; free.20110120
Hip-Hop Competition (Friday through Sunday) The search for the best hip-hop dancers in New York City will be part of the Urban Movement Tour, a three-day event in Manhattan that will offer contests and specials activities for dancers, as well as for those who prefer to watch others dance. Precontest workshops will be held on Friday from 5 to 11 p.m. at Ripley Grier Studios, 520 Eighth Avenue, near 37th Street. Competitions in nine dance categories will be held at Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, beginning Saturday at 11 a.m. and ending at 11 p.m., with finals on Sunday from 1 to 11 p.m.; winners will go on to other regional competitions before the national finals in August at Roseland. There will also be art displays, including a graffiti work in progress, and giveaways. Friday night workshops, $25 to $65; competing dancers, $45 for weekend admission; nondancers, $35 or $25 for the finals on Sunday; theurbanmovementtour.com.20110120
New York Boat Show (Friday through Sunday) The annual display of sailboats, yachts and fishing boats, with special events including an appearance by Russell Newberry, an Alaskan crab fisherman and cast member of the reality show ''Deadliest Catch'' on the Discovery Channel. Friday, noon to 9 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, 655 West 34th Street, Manhattan , nyboatshow.com; $12, free for those 15 and younger with an adult.20110120
New York/New Jersey USA Yoga Asana Championship (Sunday) Registration is closed to entrants, but spectators are welcome at this year's competition featuring 40 yogis who will demonstrate seven poses -- some required and others by personal choice -- while being judged on grace and composure, execution and body proportion by Rajashree Choudhury, a yoga instructor and vice president of Bikram's Yoga College of India in Los Angeles; two finalists will take part in the national championship in Los Angeles. At 7:15 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan , nyregionalyogachampionship.com; $25 in advance, $30 at the door.20110120
School Benefit With Jane Krakowski (Sunday) Ms. Krakowski, a cast member of NBC's ''30 Rock,'' will appear with others at a cabaret performance in support of P.S. 84, the Lillian Weber School for the Arts. Also appearing will be the Broadway performers Kerry Butler, Kate Baldwin and Graham Rowat and the Broadway musical director Michael Kosarin. At 8 p.m.; a reception and silent auction will begin at 7. Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Manhattan , ps84pta.eventbrite.com; $100 and $250.20110120
Stella Antiques Shows (Friday through Sunday) Two shows complement the Winter Antiques Show at the Park Avenue Armory. ''Antiques at the Armory'' is expected to have 100 dealers at the 69th Regiment Armory, Lexington Avenue and 26th Street; Friday and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. ''Americana and Antiques at the Piers'' will feature about 200 dealers at Pier 92, 12th Avenue and 55th Street, Clinton; Saturday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; free shuttle service is available between the two shows and to several Midtown locations. stellashows.com; $15 daily admission for each show, $20 for both.20110120
Urban Park Rangers (Saturday and Sunday) In Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx, a scavenger hunt for families in the woods will meet at the Nature Center, reachable from Broadway and 246th Street; Saturday at 1 p.m. A discussion on the lives of coyotes and their appearance within the city will be led by Frank Vincenti, founder of the Wild Dog Foundation, a nonprofit education and conservation group, at the Arsenal Gallery in Central Park, Fifth Avenue and East 64th Street; Saturday at 11 a.m. And the animal inhabitants of New York City during the Ice Age will be the topic of a talk at the Blue Heron Nature Center in Blue Heron Park, 222 Poillon Avenue, near Amboy Road, Staten Island; Sunday at 11 a.m. nyc.gov/parks/rangers; all are free.20110120
Vogue Knitting Live 2011 (Friday through Sunday) Those interested in designing, making, buying or admiring weaved goods can find something of interest at this show. Classes and marketplaces are planned each day, with demonstrations, fashion shows and other events planned for Saturday and Sunday. Hours and registration information: vogueknittinglive.com. Hilton New York Hotel, 1335 Avenue of the Americas, at 53rd Street ; tickets range from $20 for a daily marketplace ticket ($25 for two days), to $95 for a three-hour class that includes admission; there are also special packages.20110120
Spoken Word
Art Talks and Exhibition at the Grolier Club (Tuesday and Wednesday) Artists who have participated in programs of the Women's Studio Workshop in upstate New York, particularly the creation of limited-edition artists' books, will take part in several discussions in conjunction with the exhibition ''Hand, Voice & Vision: Artists' Books from Women's Studio Workshop,'' on view through Feb. 5. Three of the artists -- Clarissa Sligh, Susan Mills and Emily Speed -- will discuss their works on Tuesday at 2 p.m. Kathleen Walkup, the curator of the exhibition, will give a talk on Wednesday at 2 p.m. Reservations are required for both: mbrennan@grolierclub.org Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, Manhattan , (212) 838-6690, handvoicevision.com, grolierclub.org; free.20110120
Canadian Poets and Authors (Saturday, Sunday and Wednesday) Canadian writers will read from and discuss their work at several events. Nine poets, including Christian Bok, Lisa Robertson, Stephen Collis, Jeff Derksen, Sarah Dowling, M. NourbeSe Philip, Jordan Scott and Fred Wah, will appear over the weekend at Poets House, 10 River Terrace, at Murray Street, Lower Manhattan; (212) 431-7920; poetshouse.org; Saturday, 2 to 7 p.m. and Sunday, 1 to 5:30 p.m. David Bezmozgis will be featured in ''The Upper North Side Canadian Author Series,'' which is co-sponsored by the Consulate General of Canada in New York, at 92YTriBeCa, 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street; (212) 601-1000; 92ytribeca.org. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Poets House, $10 each day, $7 for students, free for members; 92YTriBeCa, $12.20110120
Michael Cunningham Reading (Thursday) This author, winner of the 1999 Pulitzer Prize for fiction for his book ''The Hours,'' will read from his new novel, ''By Nightfall'' (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). At 7 p.m., New York University, Lillian Vernon Creative Writers House, 58 West 10th Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 998-8816, cwp.fas.nyu.edu; free.20110120
Mary Gordon and 'Reading Jesus' (Sunday) Ms. Gordon will take part in a discussion for the last of a three-part series devoted to her newest nonfiction book, ''Reading Jesus'' (Random House), which features her interpretations of Gospel stories. At 1 p.m., Trinity Church Offices, 74 Trinity Place, Lower Manhattan , (212) 602-0805, trinitywallstreet.org; free.20110120
Walking Tours
Adventure on a Shoestring (Saturday) ''Meatpacking District Meander'' will visit a West Side neighborhood filled with stylish restaurants, clubs and clothing stores, meeting on the northeast corner of Ninth Avenue and 14th Street; at 2 p.m., (212) 265-2663; $10.20110120
Big Onion Walking Tours (Sunday) ''The Jewish East Side,'' a Lower Manhattan walk, with stops at the Eldridge Street Synagogue, the Jewish Daily Forward building and the founding site of B'nai B'rith, meeting on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets; at 11 a.m., bigonion.com; $15; $12 for 63+ and students.20110120
Ghosts of Grand Central Terminal (Saturday) Supernatural visitors to the historic terminal may be summoned up on a walk led by Ghosts of New York, meeting in front of the New York Transit Museum, near the Stationmaster's Office. At 7:30 p.m., (888) 377-4455, ghostsofny.com; $20 by credit card, $25 in cash.20110120
Graffiti Tours New York (Sunday) ''The Burners of SoHo'' passes the large-scale canvases of graffiti artists who consider SoHo their studio; meets in front of Think Coffee, 1 Bleecker Street, at the Bowery. At 2 p.m., (201) 788-7196, grafftours.com; $20, $10 for students.20110120
NYC Discovery Tours (Saturday and Sunday) Two Manhattan tours of historic indoor and outdoor sites. ''Tour Indoor: The U.S. Customs House and Titanic History Tour'' explores the interior of the United States Customs House in Lower Manhattan as well as nearby buildings that were associated with the Titanic; both days at 2:30 p.m. A visit to the historic pubs and taverns of Union Square will include time for a toast; on Saturday only at 5:15 p.m. Reservations and meeting places: (212) 465-3331. $18 per tour; drinks additional.20110120
ANNE MANCUSO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MEDITATION (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); PAINTING (78%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (77%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (76%); TICKET SALES (74%); DANCE (70%); CHILDREN (69%); FILM (68%); RELIGION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) XIZANG, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) CHINA (88%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



527 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: In Nashville, Debate Over Racetrack Pits Nostalgia and Change

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
NASHVILLE -- Shannon McCullough has a favorite lullaby, and it begins with the revving of a carbureted V8 engine. From her house on Merritt Avenue she could hear it most of her life, the hypnotic, oscillating drone as the stock cars approached and receded, approached and receded.
She has been listening to this sound for nearly all of her 48 years, and, she said, ''it can put me to sleep.'' 
Then there's Jean Boles, 65, a hairdresser who lives about five blocks away.
''The racetrack has been a thorn in my side for 37 years,'' she said.
And therein lies the dispute that prompted one of the most crowded Nashville Metropolitan Council hearings in years, a debate about nostalgia and progress and a custody battle over a neighborhood that could just as well have been a over the city itself.
The Fairgrounds Speedway is a 106-year-old, six-tenths-of-a-mile racetrack that has quite a history -- dozens of Daytona 500 winners have raced there, including the Nascar legends Dale Earnhardt, Coo Coo Marlin, Bobby Allison and Darrell Waltrip -- but not much of a recent past, at least not since 1984, when Nascar stopped holding its top racing series there.
The track sits on the Tennessee State Fairgrounds, 117 acres of city-owned land just south of downtown, which for more than a century has been the site of flea markets, livestock expos, auto shows, gem shows, gun shows and the annual state fair (so-called, though it is more of a county fair).
It is not what it once was. The flea markets and expos are still relatively well attended, but the whole complex is run-down after years of what Ms. McCullough, a retired air traffic controller, calls ''benign neglect'' by the city.
Citing studies that suggest alternate uses as well as the need for an expanded tax base, Mayor Karl Dean and other officials have pushed to redevelop the fairgrounds, moving the flea market elsewhere and getting out of the racetrack-leasing business altogether. They see the site, in a working-class but steadily gentrifying neighborhood, as ideal for a corporate campus or something else that would attract jobs.
''I have come down pretty solidly on the side where I think there is higher use for that land,'' the mayor said in an interview.
Few deny that something needs to be done about the gloomy asphalt hill that is the current fairgrounds. Revenues have been trending downward for years, as has racetrack attendance, though because of a dwindling reserve fund the fairgrounds have yet to cost taxpayers a dime.
Defenders of the fairgrounds say the city's board of fair commissioners has purposely hindered improvement by refusing long-term leases at the track.
One can find both views in the neighborhood itself, where the debate has been going on for years, and where ''Save Our Fairgrounds'' and ''No Racetrack'' signs face off on opposite lawns.
Those who want the track demolished insist that their opponents come mostly from outside the neighborhood. And they have little faith in the current high-profile campaign to save -- and upgrade -- the track, which is backed by wealthy businessmen and Nascar drivers, including Mr. Waltrip and Sterling Marlin, who do not live in Nashville.
''I feel like it's a David and Goliath thing,'' said Colby Sledge, a co-chairman of South Nashville Action People, a neighborhood association that opposes the track. But on this issue, he acknowledges, ''everybody claims they're David.''
Defenders of the track are up against the mayor, officials from his administration, the Chamber of Commerce and the general trajectory of urban growth in the New South.
Acknowledging opposition from some in the neighborhood, they insist that it comes mostly from the wave of young professionals who have arrived in the past several years.
''You knew it was there when you moved,'' George Gruhn, owner of a famous Nashville guitar shop and a regular flea market customer, said of such opponents. ''It was there before you were born.''
The mayor himself, his critics do not hesitate to point out, was raised in Massachusetts.
Last month, after a backlash by flea market vendors, Mr. Dean dropped a plan to move the market to an empty mall across town. The failure of that plan left the racetrack, the most controversial and currently least lucrative part of the fairgrounds, in the crosshairs.
A bill was introduced in the Metropolitan Council that would call for further analysis of the fairgrounds but would demolish the track. That bill -- and two amendments that would temporarily keep the track -- were the subjects of a public hearing on Tuesday night, and it was thought that a few racing fans might show up.
Easy to spot in their red ''Save Our Fairgrounds'' shirts, they were spread out over the sixth floor, the basement, the lobby and the Council chambers -- at least a thousand and possibly hundreds more, possibly more than had come to some past racing events.
The other side was represented, too; a mix of neighborhood residents, environmentalists, small-business owners and real estate agents, they wore yellow shirts reading ''Neighbors for Progress.'' They spoke of the noise, the deafening drone that stifles conversation on front porches and back yards, even in the living room with the TV on and the windows closed.
They also spoke of sustainable growth, property values, infill, green space, economic development, vibrant corridors -- the articles of faith of modern urban planning.
The red shirts spoke of racing.
Some were from the neighborhood and others from out of town, even out of state, but none were foreign to the fairgrounds. Mr. Marlin spoke of his time racing there, as did younger, up-and-coming drivers, people who had sold Cokes in the grandstands and worked in the pit crews, who had sat at flea market stalls and who had just sat and watched.
When the Council votes were tallied, a cheer echoed throughout the courthouse. Everything, including the track, was to stay put for two years while a master plan for the site was developed.
It was a setback for the yellow shirts but a qualified one. Even if the track remains, the fair board does not seem inclined to lease it for racing soon.
The next day, Ms. McCullough wondered how long the track's supporters could keep up the energy. Destroying the track, she said sadly, would be so permanent, so irreversible. Not everything that goes around necessarily comes back again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two race car drivers, Sterling Marlin, left, and Ronnie Campbell, asked Marie Silcox to sign a petition to save the racetrack. Frederick Agee, far left, and Douglas Chapman favor development on the site. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (77%); CITY LIFE (74%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (69%); LEASING INDUSTRY (65%); TRENDS (62%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



528 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Agrees to Low-Level Talks With North

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER; Su-Hyun Lee contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea said Thursday that it had agreed to hold low-level defense talks with North Korea. The talks would be the first dialogue between the Koreas since a deadly North Korean artillery attack on a South Korean island in November seemed to push the peninsula to the brink of war.
The North had proposed such talks -- as well as a meeting between the countries' defense ministers -- according to the South Korean Unification Ministry. The ministry said the South was willing to hold the higher-level talks, but only if the North met certain demands. 
Those conditions included that the North take responsibility for the shelling of the island and the sinking of a South Korean warship last year.
The United States has recently been trying to nudge South Korea to consider renewing contacts with the North. But the South, led by President Lee Myung-bak, has been reluctant, saying that the North appeared to be following an old strategy of provoking its neighbor and then requesting talks and aid. South Korea had also been hoping that China would begin to rein in the North, its ally.
On Wednesday, during a state visit to the United States, Chinese leaders ''expressed concern'' about North Korea's recently disclosed uranium-enrichment plant. American officials portrayed the statement as something of a breakthrough, saying it was the first time the Chinese had acknowledged that the plant was a problem.
Although the South's offer of talks appeared to be a step forward, analysts in Seoul cautioned that the preconditions set for higher-level negotiations might prevent any real progress.
''It remains to be seen if North Korea is serious about accepting the South Korean conditions,'' said Kim Sung-han, a professor of international relations at Korea University in Seoul. ''A discussion of 'viewpoints' could just be a fruitless game of words.''
This week's offers and counteroffers continue intense diplomatic maneuvering that began this month, when North Korea began making overtures.
If the two Koreas do renew contacts, it may open the way for something that the United States has been seeking in recent weeks: the resumption of six-nation talks on disarming the North's nuclear program. Washington has called inter-Korean talks a precondition for reopening those talks among China, Japan, the Koreas, Russia and the United States.
Support for the multilateral talks represents a shift in the American approach to North Korea after a steadfast refusal to engage with it.
The Lee administration had responded to the North's offers in recent weeks by demanding that the North first take concrete steps to dismantle its nuclear program and apologize for the attacks on the warship Cheonan and Yeonpyeong Island. The two attacks stirred deep outrage in South Korea.
On Thursday, the North for the first time acknowledged the South's conditions and appeared to indicate a possible willingness to at least discuss them. In its proposal, the North said it wanted to clarify its ''viewpoints'' on both attacks and also to discuss lowering military tensions on the peninsula, the Unification Ministry said.
An official at the ministry, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the South would use the low-level talks to gauge the North's willingness to meet its conditions for talks between the defense ministers.
The ministry also said it made a counterproposal to the North for separate high-levels talks aimed at judging North Korea's sincerity in fulfilling its previous promises to give up its nuclear weapons programs. The ministry said the time and place for the working-level defense meeting had not been set.
Until now, the North has denied involvement in the Cheonan's sinking and has said the attack on the island was provoked by South Korean military drills.
Mr. Kim of Korea University said one possibility was that the North felt pressured to act by this week's visit by China's leader to the United States. In a joint statement, President Obama and President Hu Jintao called for serious and constructive dialogue between the Koreas on reducing tensions.
Mr. Kim said the North might be trying to placate China. He and other analysts said the North's biggest fear was that China could halt the food and fuel deliveries that prop up the North Korean government.
Some analysts said it is also possible that the North was hoping that the overtures would encourage the United States to keep pressing the South to ease its preconditions for talks. Others said the North's softening might also reflect a growing need for aid from the South.
Analysts here appear convinced that the North's overtures are simply a ploy by the North to extract economic aid or win international support.
''The North's policy is like a pendulum swinging back and forth between brinkmanship and conciliation,'' said Ha Young-sun, a professor of international relations at Seoul National University. ''Nothing has really changed, and the North is not really ready to change.''
South Korean officials say their preconditions for talks are aimed at breaking a cycle of provocation followed by dialogue that the North has used to wrest concessions from the South and other donors.
''The situation now is totally different than in the past,'' said Kim Tae-hyo, President Lee's deputy national security adviser. ''We will withhold economic assistance until concrete progress is evident.''
Mr. Lee took office in 2008 demanding progress on denuclearization as a condition for economic aid to the North. However, analysts said the administration's new conditions for talks were tougher than what Mr. Lee had sought before the attack on Yeonpyeong Island.
Some critics said that the tougher stance was a sign that Mr. Lee had largely given up hope for a breakthrough with the North during his final two years in office.
''Lee Myung-bak's hard line is not giving North Korea a real chance to resume dialogue,'' said Kim Keun-sik, a professor of North Korea studies at Kyungnam University who served as an adviser to Mr. Lee's predecessor, Roh Moo-hyun. ''He is closing the door too soon.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



529 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: China's Economy Grew 10.3 Percent in 2010

BYLINE: By IAN JOHNSON and BETTINA WASSENER. 
Ian Johnson reported from Beijing, and Bettina Wassener from Hong Kong. Zhang Jing contributed reporting from Beijing.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China's economy grew at a rate of 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter from the same period a year earlier and inflation eased only slightly last month, showing that a series of cooling measures by Beijing over the past year have had only a limited effect.
Data released by the National Bureau of Statistics on Thursday put the pace of growth at 10.3 percent for the full year, up from 9.2 percent in 2009. 
The pace of growth in the last three months of 2010 also accelerated from the 9.6 percent recorded for July-September quarter. Both the quarterly and annual figures were significantly above what analysts had expected.
Buoyed by ample lending and significant state investment projects, the Chinese economy powered ahead last year, overtaking Japan to become the world's second-largest, after the United States.
Inflation, which has become a major concern for the authorities in recent months, came in at 3.3 percent for the full year, above the official target of 3 percent, while the data for December showed consumer prices were up 4.8 percent from a year earlier.
This was lower than the 5.1 percent inflation seen in November, but still a worrying one in the eyes of ordinary Chinese, who have been complaining of rising food prices, with some staples increasing 25 percent in the last few months.
Moreover, many economists expect the pace of inflation to pick up again in coming months because of adverse weather conditions and other seasonal factors like the Lunar New Year holiday in February, which triggers higher household spending. Rising wages also have fanned inflation pressures in recent months.
Taken together, the data and a number of other statistics in recent days supported the view of many economists who believe that the government will have to further tighten monetary policy, which could eventually lead the Chinese currency to appreciate against the dollar.
''It's clear that the government policy stance has shifted'' from worrying about growth to controlling inflation, said Arthur Kroeber, head of the economics research company Dragonomics, based in Beijing.
Over the past year, the government has taken a series of incremental steps to tighten growth and curb inflation. The so-called reserve requirement ratio for state-controlled banks -- which effectively dictates the amount that lenders have to set aside against loans, limiting how much they can lend -- has been raised seven times since early 2010, most recently on Jan. 14. The Chinese central bank also has nudged up interest rates twice in recent months.
However, these steps have had only a moderate effect on the pace of growth. Bank lending continues to surge, and on Thursday, the government reported that fixed-asset investment rose 23.8 percent in 2010, while property investment soared 33.2 percent.
''In sum, growth has not been significantly impacted by tightening measures. Instead, it continues to fuel inflation by boosting demand for both producer and consumer goods and services,'' Ken Peng, an economist at Citigroup, commented in a note on Thursday. ''This should give the green light for authorities to continue to tighten policy to contain inflation expectations.''
Many analysts believe that another rate increase, a higher reserve ratio for banks and other measures aimed more specifically at sectors like housing could come within weeks.
Economists at HSBC, in a note published Thursday, predicted that the first rate increase of 2011 ''could come as early as before Lunar New Year,'' which begins on Feb. 3.
Speculation about higher interest rates helped send stock markets in China and elsewhere lower on Thursday. The Shanghai composite index sagged 2.9 percent, while in Hong Kong the Hang Seng index fell 1.7 percent.
Some analysts also say that one way to combat inflation would be to allow the Chinese currency to strengthen. A stronger renminbi would make it cheaper for Chinese companies to import raw materials and goods from abroad, helping keep down the price inflation of finished goods at home.
The American government would welcome a stronger renminbi and has been pushing China to allow its currency to appreciate more rapidly.
The exchange rate has been a major topic of President Hu Jintao's visit to the United States this week.
Beijing has allowed some appreciation against the dollar since mid-2010 but the change has been small and is likely to remain so in the future, analysts say.
Brian Jackson, an economist with the Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong, said in a note that he expected the renminbi to strengthen to 6.20 against the dollar by the end of the year. This would only be a small change from 6.59, at which the currency traded on Thursday.
Moreover, Mr. Kroeber of Dragonomics said that it is China's economic performance, rather than American pressure, that could prompt any more marked strengthening.
''They can say, 'You don't have a lot of credibility running an economic system and we do,''' Mr. Kroeber said. ''It's according to their needs.''
Seen broadly, the numbers offer another insight into China's changing economy. The government now seems able to avoid the boom-bust cycles, unlike in the 1980s and 1990s, that were prominent during the first decades of economic reform.
''The cycles have flattened out,'' said Helen Qiao, an economist with Goldman Sachs, ''so the swings are not so dramatic.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); FOOD PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); CURRENCIES (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



530 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Rate in City Fell Below 9% Last Month

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate fell below 9 percent in December to its lowest level in 20 months, but not because more residents found work at the end of the year. 
The decline in the unemployment rate to 8.9 percent, from 9.1 percent in November, resulted from a decrease in the number of people looking for work, possibly because they were discouraged about their prospects. Indeed, data released Thursday by the state labor department showed that the number of private-sector jobs in the city declined slightly in December, shrinking by 3,600 jobs, or 0.1 percent.
Still, the unemployment rate continued the steady fall that began a year ago after it peaked at 10.5 percent in December 2009. Back then, unemployment was significantly higher in the city than in the nation. Since then, though, those positions have reversed: the national unemployment rate was 9.4 percent in December.
The city had about 355,000 unemployed residents last month, down more than 60,000 in a year, according to the state's figures. In December 2009, there were 418,000 unemployed city residents, the highest toll in 35 years of record-keeping.
Over the course of 2010, the city added 50,800 private-sector jobs, an increase of 1.6 percent. That was a third higher than the national rate of private-sector job growth, which was 1.2 percent last year.
But while the national economy added more than 100,000 jobs in December, the city ended 2010 on a weak note. It usually adds jobs in December as stores, hotels and restaurants take on extra workers for the holiday rush of tourists and other shoppers.
''Even though the city is enjoying generally strong job growth, hiring for the Christmas season was below average,'' said Elena Volovelsky, a senior economist with the New York State Department of Labor. She said that hiring by retailers was ''disappointing'' and that there was ''weakness'' in several industries that had been adding jobs. Employment on Wall Street, in hotels and restaurants and in professional and business services was ''essentially flat'' last month, Ms. Volovelsky said.
Statewide, the unemployment rate also dipped despite a drop in the number of private-sector jobs. In December, the state's unemployment rate was 8.2 percent, down from 8.3 percent in November. But private-sector employment statewide declined by 22,600, or 0.3 percent, after adjustments for usual seasonal fluctuations.
There were still nearly 800,000 unemployed residents of New York state in December, but the number of them who were collecting unemployment benefits had declined significantly because so many had used up as many as 99 weeks of unemployment insurance payments.
''Job growth in New York state has been inconsistent month-to-month during this economic recovery,'' said Norman A. Steele, deputy director of the labor department's Division of Research and Statistics.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); CITY LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CITIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); RETAILERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



531 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Evaluations When Almost Every Teacher Gets an 'A'

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GOLLAN. 
jgollan@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Grade inflation -- a term normally associated with students -- is widespread among Bay Area teachers, who receive so many favorable evaluations that it is impossible to tell how well they are performing, some educators say.
For the 2009-10 school year, just 40 out of 1,924 teachers -- or 2 percent -- reviewed by the San Francisco Unified School District received below-satisfactory performance reviews, district records show. Those figures are consistent with recent years: an average of 2.7 percent of teachers evaluated over the past five years received marks of ''unsatisfactory'' or ''needs improvement,'' records show. And education scholars say that in a system where all teachers are winners, a crucial gauge of teacher quality is essentially lost.
A similar pattern has emerged in nearby school districts. In the San Jose and Oakland Unified School Districts, for example, about 1 percent of teachers received ratings of ''ineffective'' or ''unsatisfactory,'' records for 2009-10 show.
Administrators emphasized that weaknesses in the evaluation system did not diminish the work of teachers who educate students under difficult conditions exacerbated by a state budget crisis that has increased class sizes and reduced financing for schools. 
But the numbers reveal that the review process is effectively broken, parents and administrators said, at a time when the Obama administration is seeking to tie federal money for education to the use of teacher evaluations based on student performance. That policy is controversial, particularly among teachers, who say that a variety of factors -- some beyond their control -- should be taken into account.
''We have to create a better evaluation system that really names what high-quality instruction looks like,'' said Superintendent Anthony Smith of the Oakland district. He favors including student performance as a factor in evaluations.
Linda Shaffer, a parent of two children in San Francisco schools and a founder of Educate Our State, an advocacy group led by parents seeking more accountability, said, ''The numbers tell me that there is a low bar to jump over, which doesn't tell me anything about the teachers in the classroom.''
Some districts across the country -- including Oak Grove in south San Jose -- have begun to change how they evaluate teachers, incorporating student-achievement data to assess a teacher's performance.
But those districts are in the minority. Partly because of resistance from teachers unions, most districts do not factor student test scores into evaluations.
Educators said the wide-ranging and sometimes-vague standards weaken the evaluation process. ''A majority of districts in the state and the nation currently have dysfunctional evaluation systems,'' said Eric A. Hanushek, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford. ''They neither help any teachers to get better nor point to teachers that should move out of teaching.''
Until this school year, San Francisco lacked detailed criteria for evaluating teacher performance. Under a revamped system put into effect last fall, teachers will be evaluated according to how well they engage students, maintain decorum, grasp subject matter, plan lessons, help students progress and expand their teaching expertise. The evaluations do not hinge on student achievement.
Principals and assistant principals observe teachers in the classroom before drafting evaluations. Teachers are then ranked as ''outstanding,'' ''highly satisfactory,'' ''satisfactory,'' ''needs improvement'' or ''unsatisfactory.''
Most veteran teachers in San Francisco are evaluated every two years. Teachers who rank ''satisfactory'' or above on their most recent evaluation are eligible to receive a ''short-form review'' the next time. In it, principals have limited space to describe a teacher's strengths and challenges.
Superintendent Carlos A. Garcia of the San Francisco district said that in the past administrators might have been less demanding in their assessments because they had concluded that the system was ineffective. ''People felt, What's the point in trying to be tough in evaluations?'' Mr. Garcia said.
''We have to create a cultural shift for principals and assistant principals to be more honest with us,'' he said.
Mr. Garcia said he believed that the new benchmarks were likely to improve the process. He added that he ''wouldn't be opposed'' to test scores' being factored into staff evaluations.
San Francisco's 's new standards will, however, have to be recalibrated to meet federal expectations. In an effort to reward states that link student achievement to teacher performance, Mr. Obama and the Republicans will probably negotiate a compromise this year to overhaul evaluations, the federal education secretary, Arne Duncan, wrote on Jan. 3 in The Washington Post.
In San Francisco, San Jose and Oakland, teacher evaluations are not used to determine merit raises or advancement, union representatives from those districts said. But administrators said they were an important measure of the quality of teaching. Even more rigorous standards would help administrators take disciplinary action against teachers who consistently underperform, educators said.
California's education code, contractual obligations and the threat of expensive legal battles can sometimes prevent veteran teachers from being fired. No ''tenured'' teachers in San Francisco, those on the payroll for two years or more, have been fired in the last three years, records show. In contrast, teachers can be fired for any reason in their first two years. Of the 252 new teachers hired last year, 42, or 17 percent, were let go for various reasons, district records show.
Leaders of the San Francisco teachers' union say their evaluation system should be left alone. ''I don't think using student achievement as part of teacher evaluations is effective,'' said Dennis Kelly, president of United Educators of San Francisco, which represents 6,000 teachers and other staff members.
Teachers should not be penalized for myriad factors affecting student, including parental involvement, Mr. Kelly said.
Linking student growth and teacher performance could also drive teachers from struggling schools, some teachers say.
''Everybody blames teachers for the problems in public schools,'' said Dennis Klein, a third-grade teacher at Bret Harte Elementary School in Bayview. ''We need smaller classes and more time to plan lessons and teach.''
Regardless of the criteria in use, however, it is difficult for San Francisco parents to assess their child's teachers. Evaluations are protected by privacy laws.
''Getting teacher-level information is impossible,'' Ms. Shaffer said. ''It should be publicly available. It is a public system, paid for by taxpayers.''
In the push for more teacher accountability, a growing number of school systems nationwide are trying different approaches. The value-added method, for example, rates teachers from best to worst using students' test scores. The Los Angeles Times enraged teachers last year when it published a series that included the rankings of about 6,000 elementary school teachers based on a value-added analysis. In south San Jose, administrators at the Oak Grove district say including student achievement in evaluations has helped bolster the district's Academic Performance Index, the state's measure of academic performance.
''Most of our students' scores have increased,'' said KC Walsh, president of the Oak Grove Educators Association, which represents 620 teachers and other employees. ''The accountability has improved student achievement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Linda Shaffer, a San Francisco parent who wants more accountability from teachers, helped her son, Nate, 6, get ready for school last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (79%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



532 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Sundance Is Selling, But Prices Are Down

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
PARK CITY, Utah -- Hollywood is back in the mood to buy indie films -- even if not at the old prices that came with inflated expectations.
Heading into the Sundance Film Festival, which opened in this ski town on Thursday, if you couldn't quite feel the crackle of commerce in the air, you could certainly hear it in the voices of purchasing executives. They privately (no sense in tipping the competition) rattled off films they were circling.
''On paper, at least, it looks like there is something for every distributor,'' said Arianna Bocco, head of acquisitions for Sundance Selects/IFC Films. 
Among other factors, the strong box-office performance of specialty films over the last six months has created optimism that the art house sector has emerged on the other side of a correction. After a glut of mediocre titles pushed as masterpieces ravaged the indie market, there came the likes of ''Black Swan,'' which cost $13 million to make, has sold more than $75 million and is still playing.
Similarly, the emergence over the last year of video-on-demand services as a significant revenue generator for independent films has eased the concerns of distributors about dwindling DVD sales.
''The marketplace is now equipped to understand that video-on-demand can add real value to a film's distribution cycle,'' said Kevin Iwashina, managing partner of Preferred Content, a production, sales and finance advisory company.
Several distributors started shopping before the festival even began, with Sony Pictures Classics paying an undisclosed amount for the psychological thriller ''Take Shelter'' and HBO snapping up the documentary ''Project Nim,'' about a chimpanzee at the center of a 1970s-era sign language experiment.
''You're seeing a lot more people making deals before the festival, in part because the expectations are more realistic,'' said Tom Bernard, the co-president of Sony Pictures Classics. ''Fewer filmmakers are surrounding themselves with four middlemen who are all trying to create the illusion of hype. That strategy generally has not paid off in the past.''
On Thursday, Sony announced that it had bought ''The Greatest Movie Ever Sold,'' a documentary about product placement (financed entirely by product placement) from Morgan Spurlock, the director of ''Super Size Me.'' Terms of the sale, handled by Creative Artists Agency, were not disclosed.
Meanwhile, the commercial swirl around the edges of the festival is back. After staying home for the last few years, brands like Levis jeans have returned, outfitting celebrities in free merchandise and staging a parade of dinners and parties -- an effort to bask in the festival's heat. In another sign of a thaw after two recession years, Sundance this year added several new corporate sponsors, including two at the $150,000 threshold: Acura and Chase Sapphire, a high-end credit card.
Nobody expects Sundance to return anytime soon to its freewheeling days when Fox Searchlight paid $10.5 million for ''Little Miss Sunshine'' and Focus Features paid an overheated $10 million for ''Hamlet 2.'' The buzzwords among most sales agents this year are ''recalibrated expectations'' and ''new normal.'' This essentially means that deals will get done but that prices will be confined to the mid-seven figures or less.
According to several agents, films that easily nabbed $1.5 million in minimum guarantees are now looking at about $250,000.
One reason for the lower prices is a simple matter of leverage. A large number of indie distributors went out of business, and now the big fish that remain (the specialty divisions of the big studios, the Weinstein Company, Lions Gate, Summit Entertainment, Relativity Media) can wait out the sellers.
Filmmakers and financiers have adjusted budgets for their pictures accordingly, said Jamie Patricof, a producer of films including ''Blue Valentine,'' a darling of last year's festival, and the drama ''Little Birds,'' which will have its premiere here on Sunday. ''The $3-million-budgeted movies of five years ago are the under-$1-million movies of today,'' Mr. Patricof said.
Graham Taylor, who oversees finance and distribution for William Morris Endeavor, which is handling sales for seven Sundance titles, agreed. ''There has definitely been a market correction,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''The days of inflated budgets are so 2007.''
So, what Sundance movies have the best prospects of igniting buyer attention in the coming days? Topping the list of must-see films for most distributors is ''My Idiot Brother,'' a comedy starring Paul Rudd as Ned, a guy who looks for the good in life but always seems to end up with the short end of the stick. Also generating strong interest is ''The Details,'' a dark comedy/love story that stars Tobey Maguire, Laura Linney and Ray Liotta.
''Margin Call'' -- a thriller set against the backdrop of the financial crisis that stars Kevin Spacey, Jeremy Irons and Demi Moore -- also looks promising, according to several buyers. Other strong contenders are ''The Devil's Double,'' the true story of Latif Yahia, an Iraqi army lieutenant who was hired in 1987 to be Saddam Hussein's body double, and ''Like Crazy,'' a romance that is already a winner with critics.
Several smaller distributors are seeking this year's version of ''Winter's Bone,'' a dark $2 million drama that played Sundance last year and has sold almost $8 million at the box office. Could it be ''On the Ice,'' the bleak tale of two seal-hunting boys who live in an Alaskan village?
In the end, everything depends on the screenings that will take place here over the next week. While multiple films look exciting on paper, sales will turn on whether buyers see quality on the screen.
''The market looks strong for films that are really well done,'' said Rich Klubeck, a partner at United Talent Agency, which is shopping 14 movies at this year's festival. ''The market for movies that fall into the category of 'I'm surprised that got made' -- not so much.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sundance films: top, Elizabeth Banks, Tobey Maguire and Miles Ellenwood in the ''The Details''
Paul Rudd and Ms. Banks in ''My Idiot Brother''
and John Goodman, right, in ''Red State.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAN COOK
NICOLE RIVELLI/BIG BEACH FILMS
 ANTHONY MICHAEL RIVETTI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); FILM (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (76%); DEAFNESS (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SKIING (72%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (71%); PRIMATES (63%)

COMPANY: CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (51%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



533 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: The Riskiness of Petrobras

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE and JAMES PETHOKOUKIS

 BODY:
Petrobras, Brazil's energy giant, will pay bond investors about a percentage point more in yield than the government that controls it. With sovereign bond yields so low and Brazilian inflation flaring up, bond buyers interested in the South American country could be better off lending to its oil-backed corporate proxy.
The 10-year portion of Petrobras's $6 billion deal was priced Thursday evening at a yield of around 5.4 percent. That's compared with the yield on 10-year United States Treasuries of just under 3.5 percent. Despite being rated nine notches below top-rated United States government debt, Brazil's dollar-denominated government debt only earns about one percentage point more than Treasuries -- which are still among the safest and lowest yielding investments in the world. 
Moreover, Brazil has an inflation problem. The latest reading of annual inflation, at 5.9 percent, showed consumer price increases at a six-year high. The central bank raised interest rates by a hefty half-percentage point on Wednesday to 11.25 percent, and more increases look to be on the way. That could weigh heavily on the value of government bonds, even those denominated in dollars, especially if investors lose confidence in Brazil's ability to fight inflation.
Petrobras carries its own risks: the price of oil could tumble, or it could suffer its own BP-like oil spill disaster. But if its $224 billion investment plans pan out, bondholders could be rewarded. Petrobras has its sights set on surpassing Exxon Mobil, one of four triple-A-rated companies left standing, by 2017 as the largest publicly traded producer of oil. As a majority stakeholder in Petrobras and with its future revenue riding on the company, the Brazilian government is sure to prioritize its energy champion's success.
It also doesn't hurt to have a bit of oil exposure, to capitalize on global economic growth, hedge against inflation, and reduce the impact of any investment exodus from emerging markets. Strong demand for the Petrobras bond offering, the largest from an emerging market issuer over the past year, suggests some investors may be thinking the same thing.
A Strict Approach
The visit of President Hu Jintao of China to Washington has started a debate about whether the United States should copy his country's hands-on economic model. But China's feisty ''tiger mothers'' may be a better guide. A new book extolling their tough-love approach to parenting could help America escape its debt trap and increase growth.
The United States is in a funk over the fear of decline and a still-wobbly economy. The financial crisis and subsequent government bailouts prompted some American policy makers to wonder if their steadfast belief in minimal state intervention had run its course. To make matters worse, while America plunged into its worst downturn since the Great Depression, China kept growing and adding to its huge dollar hoard.
But the solutions to America's long-term economic woes won't be found by imitating the mercantilist industrial policy coming out of Beijing. That's how poor countries play catch-up, not how rich countries lead and innovate. Even China understands that at some point it will need to export less, consume more and loosen its financial system to more efficiently allocate capital.
So rather than turn to Mr. Hu for answers, ask the author Amy Chua. In her book ''Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother,'' Ms. Chua begins with the premise that American parents have too lax a parenting style. The child of ethnic Chinese immigrants, she says Western parents are too quick to praise mediocrity and too reluctant to enforce sacrifice for better academics. In short, Americans are not preparing their children as well as the Chinese are to compete and succeed as adults.
Whether the thesis is true or not, Ms. Chua's critique still inadvertently manages to capture the essence of what's wrong with American economic policy. Too much spending and consumption today, too little savings for investment tomorrow -- and a dysfunctional education system and a tax code that rewards lobbying over productivity.
Americans need to demand more of themselves and of government, even if that means enduring some unpleasant sacrifice. Chinese mothers, according to Ms. Chua, have high expectations for their children because nothing helps confidence like achieving what didn't seem possible. That spirit would serve the United States well about now.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An oil worker aboard a Petrobras offshore drilling platform in Brazil. If the energy giant's $224 billion investment plans pan out, bondholders could see rewards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FELIPE DANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); OIL SPILLS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTEREST RATES (52%); PARENTING (50%)

COMPANY: PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (92%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: PETR3 (BOVESPA) (92%); PBR (NYSE) (92%); PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



534 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Patients Await Organ Transplants, Potential Donors Struggle for Visas

BYLINE: By JACQUELINE BAYLON

 BODY:
The clock is ticking for Dr. Gabriel Danovitch's patient. Dr. Danovitch, a transplant surgeon at the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, is treating an immigrant from Mexico in his 40s whose kidneys have failed. The patient is a good candidate for a transplant and has a donor, his brother.
But there is a big problem: His brother is a Mexican citizen whose application for a visa to come to the United States was not granted. 
Physicians who perform transplants say patients who need organ donations from a family member or other close match outside the United States face hurdles that are often hard to surmount. Difficulties in obtaining visas leave many potential donors frustrated and force their sick relatives in the United States to wait months or even years on a list for organs like a liver or kidney.
In other cases, poor families cannot afford to pay for the donors to travel to the United States and undergo organ-removal operations that can require hospital stays of up to three weeks. In some states, Medicaid does not cover any of a donor's expenses, and private insurance policies vary greatly in how much they will cover.
Getting organ donations is always difficult, but medical authorities say the problems have gotten worse for immigrants with the tightening of visa policies after the terrorist attacks in 2001. And with the slowdown in the economy, some states have been cutting back financial aid to transplant patients and donors.
''If there is someone living and willing and compatible, it's concerning that, because of so much protection, they end up not being able to help a desperate person in need,'' said Bryan Stewart, a spokesman for One Legacy, a nonprofit organization that deals with organ and tissue donations in the seven-county greater Los Angeles area.
Dr. Giselle Guerra, medical director of the Living Kidney Donor Program at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, has similar concerns. ''I wish I could get rid of all the bureaucratic red tape, and it would be nice for every donor to fit the criteria so we can stop adding to the waiting list,'' she said.
More than 110,000 people were waiting for an organ as of Wednesday, according to the United Network for Organ Sharing, a private nonprofit organization that manages the nation's organ transplant system under contract with the federal government.
Over 60,000 of those on the list are black, Hispanic, Asian, American Indian, Pacific Islander or describe themselves as multiracial, according to the organ sharing network. Of those, 6,229 are resident aliens in the United States, compared with close to 1,900 resident aliens in 2000. Illegal immigrants are prohibited from the list.
''When patients need a transplant, most of the time, the first people they turn to is their families,'' said Dr. Juan Carlos Caicedo, a transplant surgeon and director of the Hispanic Transplant Program at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. ''It becomes complicated when their families are not in the U.S., which in a lot of instances, that is the case.''
The State Department does not have a medical visa category, and people traveling to the United States have to qualify for the B-1/B-2 visa, more commonly known as the tourist visa.
''Our embassies and consulates around the world do their best to assist visa applicants who are dealing with life or death situations in order to expedite their cases,'' a department official wrote in an e-mail.
An individual applying for a visa for a medical reason can fill out a form requesting that the application be expedited.
But some doctors say that they have contacted State Department officials on behalf of patients and even that has not sped up the process.
''When I call the consulates or embassies, they're not very cooperative,'' Dr. Guerra said. ''We try to be as concise as possible, but also explaining the urgency in the letters that we write, but it just continues to be a waiting game.''
Dr. Linda Chen, a transplant surgeon at the Miller School of Medicine, said that for about the last five years, the State Department has required foreign donor candidates to get preliminary testing done in their home country.
Blood-collection tubes are mailed to the candidates, and the filled tubes are mailed back for testing. If the donor has the same blood type, there is a possibility that he or she could be a match with the patient, and the State Department will take that into consideration, Dr. Chen said.
''But even with blood work,'' Dr. Chen said, ''they don't give people visas sometimes.''
Dr. Chen said she writes letters on a monthly basis. But she cannot do that for patients whose donor relatives are in Cuba.
''Since the U.S. does not have a relationship with Cuba, we cannot help them by writing a letter or sending tests over,'' Dr. Chen said.
If patients cannot get a donor into the United States, their names go on the organ network's list to receive an organ from someone who has died. Waiting times for patients vary, and among the factors is a person's state of residence. Patients in New York, for example, wait an average of seven to nine years, while people in Florida wait three to five years.
The No. 1 transplanted organ is the kidney. When one is needed but not readily available, patients must go through dialysis. Medicare spent $9.2 billion in 2009 on dialysis patients, according to an annual Medicare Payment Advisory Commission report due to Congress in March. Martha Escamilla-Arias, a social worker at Northwestern Memorial Hospital, said that in most cases dialysis cost the State of Illinois more than a kidney transplant in the long run.
''In Illinois, two and a half years of dialysis pays for one kidney transplant,'' Ms. Escamilla-Arias said. ''Some people are in dialysis for five to seven years, and if things were easier for foreign donors, it would help.''
Jean Viera, 34, a Cuban immigrant on the organ network's list, has been going through dialysis for six years.
His left arm is disfigured with two purplish raised scars where he is connected to a dialysis machine.
''I wish I did not have to go through this,'' Mr. Viera said. ''This is just not the best way to live.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPLANT SURGERY (93%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ORGAN DONATION (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); MEDICAID (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); HOSPITALS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); INSURANCE POLICIES (66%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (62%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



535 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: In the Angry Arena of Tax Appeals, a Would-Be Mayor Sees Success

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco. sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Scott James is a columnist for The Bay Citizen.
Thousands of San Francisco property owners have complained that their 2009 tax assessments were inaccurate -- increased by 2 percent, while actual values were down because of the recession. Now, as their cases are finally being heard, the verdicts are in.
They were right. 
In nearly all appeals where evidence was evaluated, the 2009 values determined by the Office of the Assessor-Recorder have been judged too high. Reductions have averaged 13 percent.
Fighting City Hall, however, has proven difficult. Homeowners must navigate a complex and contentious appeals process that has embittered some. Additionally, thousands more continue to wait to have their cases heard.
Yet, in the midst of the conflict, the city leader responsible, Assessor-Recorder Phil Ting, has begun a bid to become mayor.
It is a political high-wire act for Mr. Ting: being associated with property taxes and disputes is hardly the traditional route to winning voters' hearts.
But in an interview this week, Mr. Ting said that dealing with the appeals had actually been a triumph over an enormous challenge and would position him as a staunch defender of embattled taxpayers and the city's purse.
''We're talking about an economic catastrophe,'' Mr. Ting said of the recession. ''We're left dealing with the fallout.''
Nearly 6,300 appeals were filed after the 2009 assessments. During the dot-com bust, the high was about 2,400.
About half of the 2009 cases have been resolved, according to an analysis of Assessment Appeals Board records. Nearly 1,500 people withdrew their appeals, and more than 600 others were disqualified for not completing paperwork properly or failing to appear for hearings.
In the cases where hearings took place, the appeals board sided with taxpayers 92 percent of the time. Reductions ranged from $250 to $19.4 million (150 Powell Street, previously assessed at $70 million).
Additionally, the assessor's office has negotiated with property owners without hearings. In those 400 cases, reductions averaged about 14 percent.
Nearly 2,500 appeals remain. They must be resolved by Sept. 15, said Dawn Duran, the appeals board administrator. On top of that, an additional 5,323 appeals were filed after the 2010 assessments. Many of those were repeat filings, ''because they didn't have a decision for 2009,'' Ms. Duran said.
It all adds up to thousands of potential voters who will decide Mr. Ting's fate in the race for mayor.
''We're just trying to be fair,'' Mr. Ting said. ''As long as people feel like they're all getting treated the same way, then I think that they're very receptive to my tenure as assessor.''
Still, some wonder why they received a property value increase in the first place, and they see the appeals process as a hassle, no matter what the outcome.
Jon Stuber, who owns a modest condominium in the Mission district, prevailed in his appeal, but after a bruising public hearing. Mr. Stuber had few kind words for Mr. Ting.
''Everything done with my property was either a mistake or done in bad faith,'' said Mr. Stuber, whose case has been featuredtwice in this column as an example of the situation.
During Mr. Stuber's appeal, the assessor's office tried to bolster its case by arguing that homes on busy streets should be valued $30,000 more than those on quiet ones, an idea that contradicts real estate realities.
Mr. Stuber won his case and had his assessment reduced to $605,000 from the $650,000 the assessor wanted. But seven months later, the city has failed to pay him the refund. He has left eight messages and gone to City Hall in person to resolve the matter, but to no avail. (Calls made on his behalf last week resulted in a promise that a check would soon be on its way.)
''If he hasn't been accountable for his own department,'' Mr. Stuber said of Mr. Ting, ''how can he be accountable for the whole city? It's a joke.''
Mr. Ting said, however, that his modest-size staff (32 full-time appraisers) had done exemplary work in an era of economic upheaval and ''10 times the workload.'' Homeowners are feeling relief, he said, though sometimes slowly.
Mr. Ting added that in the past five years his other efforts, including a crackdown in the collection of business taxes, have brought in $245 million in revenue beyond expectations for a financially struggling city.
''How many police officers and firefighters did that save?'' he asked.
It is a view of taxation that he hopes voters will appreciate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Phil Ting 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX ASSESSORS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); APPEALS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



536 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Data Shows Continued U.S. Economic Recovery

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Economic data released Thursday provided the latest signs that the nation's economy was showing signs of recovery.
Sales of existing homes rose more than expected in December despite bad weather as sellers cut prices, but growth of factory activity in the mid-Atlantic region fell in January from December's level.
A report from a private industry group, the Conference Board, also pointed to a strengthening recovery. The group's index of leading economic indicators rose 1 percent in December, taking the index to a record high of 112.4. The December gain was bigger than the 0.6 percent increase that economists had expected. 
''All in all, the current behavior of the composite indexes and their components suggest that the economic expansion that began in mid-2009 will continue, and could even pick up slightly in the near term,'' the Conference Board wrote.
The economy has been growing for more than a year, having emerged from its deepest recession in generations by the summer of 2009. Gross domestic product expanded 2.6 percent in the third quarter, but that was not enough to put a significant dent in the nation's 9.4 percent jobless rate.
And the job market remains weak despite last week's decline in unemployment claims. The Labor Department said that the number of Americans filing for first-time unemployment benefits dropped to 404,000 from a downwardly revised reading of 441,000 in the previous week.
The 37,000 drop in claims was the biggest since the week that ended Feb. 6, when claims fell by 51,000. Analysts had expected last week's jobless claims to fall to 420,000.
''The trend of the last three months is clearly downward; the pace of layoffs is clearly lower,'' said Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN Financial in New York. But he added, ''Hirings are still frustratingly slow.''
The spike in the week ended Jan. 8 may have reflected a backlog of claims built up over the holiday season.
The four-week moving average of new claims, which strips out short-term volatility, fell to 411,750. That was a 4,000 decline.
Economists said that getting the four-week average for new jobless claims below 400,000 would be an important signal that the unemployment rate was set to come down. Continuing claims fell to 3.86 million in the week ended on Saturday, the lowest level in over two years.
However, the total number of Americans on benefit rolls, including extended benefits under emergency government programs, rose to 9.6 million in the week ended Jan. 1, from 9.2 million the previous week.
In the housing market, the National Association of Realtors said the sale of existing homes rose 12.3 percent in December to an annual rate of 5.28 million units, surpassing forecasts for a rise to 4.85 million. Sales were down 2.9 percent compared with a year earlier.
An increase in mortgage rates may have encouraged buyers by raising concern that rates would continue rising, said Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the Realtors group. Mr. Yun said he expected 2011 sales to total around 5.2 million units, with prices remaining stable.
Sales peaked above seven million units in September 2005, and hit a 15-year low below four million units in mid-2010.
Median home prices fell to $168,800 in December, down from $170,200 in November and the lowest since February 2010. That was in part because properties considered ''distressed'' accounted for 36 percent of sales, up from 33 percent in November.
While housing improved, an indicator of manufacturing slipped last month. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said its business activity index for the mid-Atlantic states dipped to 19.3 points in January from a revised 20.8 in December.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing single family homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted. (Source: National Association of Realtors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); EMPLOYMENT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



537 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
international
SCOTS TELL LONDON,
Hands Off Our Clocks
For more than a century, non-Scottish politicians have been campaigning to put Britain's clocks forward an hour all year round. The problem is that while a clock change might extend daylight in London, it would bring dark mornings with 10 a.m. sunrises in Scotland. PAGE A7
CALL FOR POLICE REFORM 
Three Kenyan police officers were suspended and placed under investigation after a newspaper published photographs that it said showed undercover officers murdering three men who had surrendered in the middle of a busy Nairobi highway. PAGE A4
EARLY ELECTIONS IN IRELAND
Brian Cowen, the embattled Irish prime minister, announced an earlier-than-expected general election for March 11, the latest development in a political breakdown for the governing Fianna Fail party. PAGE A8
LEBANESE CRISIS DEEPENS
Lebanon's worst crisis in years escalated dangerously as a last-ditch effort to negotiate a solution ended in failure. The American-backed caretaker prime minister struck a defiant note toward Hezbollah and its allies, which brought down his 14-month-old national unity government this month. PAGE A6
PILGRIMS KILLED IN IRAQ
Suicide bombers launched a series of deadly assaults against pilgrims marching toward a shrine sacred to Shiite Muslims, the police said, and dozens were killed in a third straight day of attacks against an array of targets. PAGE A10
national
IN NASHVILLE, DEBATE
Over Racetrack
Defenders of the fading Fairgrounds Speedway in Nashville, a 106-year-old, six-tenths-of-a-mile racetrack that sits on city-owned land, make their case against calls for development. PAGE A11
LONG RECOVERY FOR GIFFORDS
As doctors prepared to move Representative Gabrielle Giffords from the hospital where she has been since the Jan. 8 shooting to a rehabilitation center in Houston, they continued to caution that she faces months of intensive physical and speech therapy. PAGE A14
CUTS ON CARE FOR MENTALLY ILL
With many states across the country facing huge budget holes, proposals to reduce care for the mentally ill are being scrutinized after a troubled young man's shooting rampage in Tucson left 6 people dead and 13 wounded. PAGE A14
G.O.P. PLANS ITS HEALTH BILL
Less than 24 hours after voting to repeal the new health care law, House Republicans said that they would pass discrete bills to achieve some of the same goals, but with more restraint in the use of federal power. PAGE A19
New york
FOR MAYOR, IMMIGRATION
Remains a Complex Issue
As Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposes overhauling federal law and praises immigration as an economic stimulus, critics say his record on the issue is mixed. PAGE A20
business
BIG BANKS WANT PARTS
Of Mortgage Business
As the Obama administration prepares a report on the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, some of the nation's largest banks are offering a few suggestions. Page B1
MUSIC GROUP TO BUY AND SELL
The Warner Music Group, one of the four major record companies, has hired the investment bank Goldman Sachs to seek out potential buyers for the company, a process that will play out while Warner continues to explore buying the beleaguered British music giant EMI. PAGE B1
PRE-FESTIVAL FILM SHOPPING
Hollywood is back in the mood to buy independent films -- even if not at the old prices that came with inflated expectations. Heading into the Sundance Film Festival, which opened in Park City, several distributors started shopping before the festival even began. PAGE B3
Verizon Sues F.C.C. B8
Buffet to Leave Washington Post B9
weekend
PROTESTERS ARMED
With Wigs and Sequins
''The Walk Across America for Mother Earth'' is a playful but perceptive comedy about misfits marching for peace, love and social justice, by the downtown writer and performer Taylor Mac, Charles Isherwood writes. The new play opened at LaMaMa. PAGE C1
A TEST OF HUMAN ENDURANCE
In the new film by Peter Weir, ''The Way Back,'' escapees from a Siberian gulag attempt a bleak, demoralizing 4,000-mile trek to freedom in India during the early 1940s. PAGE C1
sports
PLAYER'S CONCUSSION RENEWS
Focus on Hits to Head
An injury to one of the N.H.L.'s bright young stars, Sidney Crosby, has some team executives considering widening a rule that bans blindside hits to the head. PAGE B11
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (83%); IMMIGRATION (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); MURDER (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); SHOOTINGS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); 2011 TUCSON SHOOTING (70%); RELIGION (70%); HEALTH CARE (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); HEZBOLLAH (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); SPEECH THERAPY (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); BRIAN COWEN (54%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (53%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (72%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) SCOTLAND (94%); IRELAND (93%); KENYA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LEBANON (91%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



538 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Question the Ways Tax Increment Financing Is Used

BYLINE: By MICK DUMKE. 
mdumke@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Nearly 300 church members, community activists and other area residents gathered in the auditorium of a Rogers Park school last Sunday to celebrate the legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. -- and to rally around a proposal to create a special taxing district that would finance neighborhood rental housing exclusively.
Its chief proponent, Brian White, an advocate of affordable housing and a candidate for 49th Ward alderman, received rousing applause after he addressed the group.
Its chief opponent, the ward's incumbent alderman, Joe Moore, was not at the event. ''Simply put, I am shut out of the meeting,'' he wrote in a statement distributed by supporters outside. 
The political dustup in Rogers Park, which has roughly the same boundaries as the 49th Ward, is the latest example of how tax increment financing, or TIF, has become a leading issue in the Feb. 22 municipal elections. Candidates and voters are hungrily eyeing the hundreds of millions of tax dollars flowing annually into the city's TIF program, an economic-development initiative financed and administered separately from the city's $6 billion annual budget.
Tax increment financing works by siphoning off some property taxes in designated areas, known as TIF districts, and setting the money aside for corporate subsidies, infrastructure, job training, housing and anything else that city officials deem a catalyst for economic development. The increase in property values that results from development would mean more revenue for the city.
As the city struggles with annual deficits in its regular budget, the lack of transparency in how TIF money is used and the sheer quantity of resources it consumes has inspired calls for reform. About $500 million has gone into the TIF program in each of the last four years, and most financing decisions are made behind closed doors by top city officials and aldermen.
Leading mayoral candidates have taken notice. Rahm Emanuel, President Obama's former chief of staff, has said he would include TIF finances in the regular budget that the City Council must approve publicly. He has also proposed using TIF dollars to pay for more police officers. Carol Moseley Braun, the former United States senator, has called for a moratorium on TIFs so that the money could be used to shore up the regular city budget, while another candidate, Gery Chico, said he wanted more TIF subsidies for small businesses. Miguel del Valle has said that the TIF program should be restructured to ensure that money is flowing into ''blighted'' communities, the program's original intent, rather than prosperous neighborhoods downtown, which have received the vast majority of TIF dollars.
Meanwhile a coalition of incumbent aldermen and lower cost-housing advocates has been fighting for months to get the City Council to approve the Sweet Home Chicago ordinance, which would set aside 20 percent of all TIF funds citywide for affordable housing. It has been thwarted by council allies of Mayor Richard M. Daley, who believe that it limits the city's ability to decide how best to use the TIF money.
The proposal in the 49th Ward is a new twist on tax increment financing. Housing advocates led by Mr. White, who is on leave as executive director of the Lakeside Community Development Corporation, want to create a TIF district with the sole purpose of generating funds to preserve rental housing. Referred to as a rental improvement fund district, or RIF, it would encompass most of the ward. Tax increment financing has traditionally been viewed as a means of reversing neighborhood decline, but Mr. White said his plan would help slow gentrification. Subsidies would be provided to landlords who agreed to keep rents low.
Rogers Park has long been one of the most diverse areas in Chicago, but Mr. White noted that recent census data showed it had lost about one-fifth of its black and Hispanic residents since 2000.
''We could do something that fundamentally changes how we protect housing in Rogers Park,'' he said.
Mr. White and other neighborhood activists said Mr. Moore was enthusiastic when they first approached him with the proposal in 2009 and that he had told them he would help them enact the plan. Marilyn Pagan-Banks, executive director of A Just Harvest, an antipoverty organization, said Mr. Moore told them the plan was ''cutting edge.''
Mr. Moore said he had merely promised to keep an open mind. ''I told them they needed to demonstrate broad-based community support,'' he said. ''They have failed miserably.''
The activists and the alderman butted heads over financing for an independent study to determine whether the ward qualified as a TIF district; Mr. White eventually secured grant money to pay for it. Mr. Moore said he wanted to create a task force to study the issue further; Mr. White said he saw this as a stalling tactic.
In October, Mr. White decided to challenge Mr. Moore's re-election bid. He said the TIF proposal was just one of his ideas for bringing ''balanced development'' to the ward.
Mr. White said he received an angry call from Mr. Moore soon after he began collecting signatures to get on the ballot. ''I told him, 'The happiest thing for me would be to be working at Lakeside and supporting you on all the wonderful things you're doing in the community, but you're not,' '' Mr. White said.
Mr. Moore maintained that Mr. White had always wanted his job. ''I view this TIF proposal as part of a long-term strategic plan on his part to run for alderman -- a flawed strategic plan,'' he said.
The Illinois law governing tax increment financing is so broadly written that widely differing areas can qualify, from economically depressed communities to not-so-depressed parts of the Loop where the buildings are simply old.
The study commissioned by Mr. White, which was released last week, concluded that not all of the housing in the 49th Ward was troubled enough to qualify for a TIF district -- though the areas that might be eligible could collect more than $55 million in TIF funds over the next 23 years.
At the rally Sunday, organized by Northside Power (People Organized to Work, Educate and Restore), Mr. White told the standing-room-only crowd that he viewed the preservation of rental housing as a civil rights issue. ''The election is coming up in five weeks, and there are two candidates on the ballot,'' he said. ''There's one candidate who's going to push for the RIF, and there's another who's not standing with you today.'' The room erupted with applause.
In the letter distributed by supporters, Mr. Moore wrote that the study had justified his decision not to endorse the TIF plan, but rally organizers ''will not grant me the courtesy of allowing me to explain my position at their meeting.''
Mr. Moore wrote that by capturing property tax money to be used only for rental housing, the proposed TIF ''would deprive our community of the flexibility to decide how millions of tax dollars could be spent in the future.''
The alderman noted that he was a supporter of other affordable-housing proposals, including Sweet Home Chicago, although its foes had argued that it, too, would limit flexibility in using property tax funds.
In a subsequent interview, Mr. Moore said the comparison was unfair, because the Sweet Home Chicago plan would leave 80 percent of all tax increment financing money available for uses besides housing.
He said the TIF program needed more transparency and oversight, especially in tight budget times. If the program did not exist, the taxes it collects would instead go to the regular city budget, the public schools and other local government agencies.
''It's not free money,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 28, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about tax increment financing, or TIF, paraphrased incorrectly from comments by Brian White, an advocate of affordable housing and a candidate for alderman of Chicago's 49th Ward. Mr. White said recent census data showed that the Rogers Park neighborhood had lost about one-fifth of its black and Hispanic residents since 2000 -- not one-quarter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Properties in the 49th Ward that could be affected by a proposed tax increment financing district. About $500 million has gone into the TIF program, a leading campaign issue, in each of the last four years.
Brian White, a candidate for alderman, proposes a different use for TIF. He wants to create a rental improvement fund district, or RIF, which would generate funds to preserve rental housing and, he says, help slow neighborhood gentrification.
 Additional 49th Ward properties that could be affected by a new TIF plan. Census data show that Rogers Park has lost about one-fourth of its black and Hispanic residents since 2000. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MAYORS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); RELIGION (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2011



539 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Chinese President's Visit Proclaims a Rising Chicago

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
President Hu Jintao of China displayed pitch-perfect timing in making Chicago his only stop outside Washington. Arriving Thursday, he got our distilled essence: glum weather, a vibrant political campaign and, of course, The Game.
To understand us, Mr. Hu could tune into the droll and entertaining ''Boers and Bernstein'' on all-sports WSCR-AM to gain full-body immersion in a cultural obsession called Bears-Packers -- the trash talk, repartee on Jay Cutler vs. Aaron Rodgers and the underlying Second City fear of deflating defeat.
Of course, there's a double-edged sword. He also arrives with the city's attention focused on a democratic mayoral election he would disdain and find alien, and the regional blood lust. They distract our attention from him, the significance of his visit and the city's ascending role as a world player. 
Did you know that 12,000 Chicago Public Schools students in 42 schools study Chinese? Or that the Chinese finance the Confucius Institute, the hub of those language programs, housed at Walter Payton College Prep? Or that some teachers of Chinese come via Shanghai as part of a Sister Cities program?
It's a function of Mayor Richard M. Daley's yanking the city from its declining Rust Belt manufacturing base into the big leagues of the global economy so that, by some academic accounts, Chicago is surpassed in influence only by New York, London, Singapore and Tokyo.
To be fixated, as much of the news media tends to be, on geriatric mobsters, city government as part of some criminal conspiracy and mayoral fumbles is to miss a transformation that ''the rest of the world recognizes, even if locals don't,'' said R. C. Longworth, a fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.
Mr. Hu could have justified stops elsewhere, noted Evan Osnos, Beijing correspondent for The New Yorker. A trip to Silicon Valley could repair broken relations with Google and other tech companies. Even Fairfield, Conn., home of General Electric, could be justified, given the huge business G.E. does with China.
''But the fact he's coming to Chicago is a staggering measure of how China has come to view the city differently than it did just a few years ago,'' said Mr. Osnos, a former Chicago Tribune reporter.
When he was sent to Beijing for the newspaper six years ago, Mr. Osnos said, Chicago was still associated with Al Capone and Michael Jordan, and Beijing ''could have hardly cared less.''
Mr. Daley's first of four trips to China was uninspiring, he recalled, with Beijing's mayor barely knowing who he was. The Chinese mayor also claimed that during a visit to Chicago in the 1980s he had not left his hotel for fear of crime.
What happened? Well, look no further than the Confucius Institute, which Mr. Hu is scheduled to visit Friday. Plans include having him watch a math class concocted for him on a day of no-class final exams.
The public school system's language program represents a level of openness and awareness that, from China's perspective, other American cities simply don't exhibit. The students may not wind up speaking well enough to make a career out of it, but even in neighborhoods as beleaguered as West Englewood, they can see China as part of their own lives.
''The visit validates a city doing the right thing,'' said Bob Davis of the College Board, who oversees relations with the branch of the Chinese ministry affecting K-12 Chinese programs in the United States.
Mr. Davis ran the Chicago Public Schools' world languages program and traveled to China with Mr. Daley. And while our business with China remains modest, and it won't stop Chicago jobs from migrating there, he sees the Chinese as impressed by ''our investing in the relationship.''
Saskia Sassen, a globalism expert at Columbia University, says Chicago suggests a new type of geopolitics, a multipolar world increasingly centered on city-to-city relations, like those between Chicago and Shanghai.
We can feel like victims, berate China for keeping the value of its currency low and have every reason to pillory its odious penchant for jailing critics and journalists. But as a proud Payton Prep junior, Hannah Francis, said simply, Mr. Hu ''is the leader of a global power.''
Of course, being a global city means good schools, airports, transit and fiber optics, Mr. Longworth said. It doesn't come cheap, and it raises a big question for the next mayor: How do you compete globally if you're forced to cut, cut, cut?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); ORGANIZED CRIME (64%); CONSPIRACY (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BEARS (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (67%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



540 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Rumblings of Change At Top of the Ladder

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, the managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column.
Could this be the last legislative session for Gov. Rick Perry and Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst?
Both men were just elected to fresh four-year terms, but it's a logical question if you have it in your head that one or the other is running for -- and has a reasonable chance at winning -- a federal office. The two have different ways of saying they're not thinking about it right now, what with the legislative session opening and all, but each is positioning himself for a run.
Consider this week's inauguration speeches. Both said they were focused on state issues like the budget and border security, but both used the federal government as the foil, describing it as the source of the problems. That fits the 2010 general election theme of states' rights and re-establishing federalism, a theme that works nicely for provincials who want to remake (or at least influence) the federal government. 
In his speech this week, Mr. Perry hit Washington for ''bloated stimulus spending, record debt and massive entitlement programs'' and said solutions to government finance problems ''will come from places like Texas.'' He knocked the federal government as not doing enough to secure the state's border with Mexico (and said earlier in the week that he'd like to see an additional 3,000 Border Patrol agents in Texas).
Mr. Dewhurst chimed right in. He talked even more explicitly about border security, rang the bell about Texas' being a financial example for the feds, said ''Washington has run roughshod over state sovereignty'' and mentioned ''Washington'' or ''federal'' a dozen times in his speech.
Mr. Perry has said repeatedly he's not running for president, isn't interested, please be quiet. But there's no obvious crowd favorite among the Republicans who might run against President Obama in 2012. Mr. Perry's political attributes aren't bad for a national race: governor of a very red Southern state with a lot of electoral votes, popular with social and economic conservatives alike, simpatico with the Tea Party members, solid public speaker, good-looking, not Sarah Palin.
If not presidential material, he is certainly viable as a vice-presidential candidate. He's just off a national book tour, and he's the new president of the Republican Governors Association. He might not be running for president, but he has grabbed a bit of the national spotlight.
A victory would create a job opening here in Texas.
But the guy in line for that post --Mr. Dewhurst -- is seriously considering a run for the United States Senate in 2012. He has a fallback, since he's not up for re-election that year. If he wins, he'll take Kay Bailey Hutchison's place in the Senate; if he loses, he'll still be the lieutenant governor. If he loses and Mr. Perry wins, he'll move to the big office in the middle of the Capitol, just as Mr. Perry did when George W. Bush became president.
The succession games are addictive: If both men move up, they create openings for a pack of ambitious Republican officeholders and candidates who have been waiting for years for one of the upper rungs on the political ladder to clear. If the governor leaves, the lieutenant governor takes over for the rest of his term. If the lieutenant governor leaves, the State Senate makes one of its 31 members the presiding officer for the rest of that term. If both leave, two senators ascend, probably after a good fight. And two years later, the top two spots in state government are either open or are being defended by two former state senators who've never run statewide campaigns.
That's separate from the other big political speculation -- who, other than Mr. Dewhurst, might run for Ms. Hutchison's spot, and what offices would be freed up as a result?
It's not entirely idle speculation. Ms. Hutchison's announced retirement started a stampede. Mr. Dewhurst is ''interested.'' Railroad Commissioners Elizabeth Ames Jones and Michael Williams are running. So are Ted Cruz, the former state solicitor general, and Roger Williams, the former Texas secretary of state (who is getting the elder George Bush's endorsement). A couple of members of the Congressional delegation are nosing around.
The Dewhurst speculation has already spawned its own round of succession talk, with Comptroller Susan Combs and Land Commissioner Jerry Patterson saying they would be interested in running for lieutenant governor if and when that job opened up.
Maybe it's just a collective fever dream. Mr. Perry might not be asked to join a ticket and might turn it down if he were. Mr. Dewhurst could decide he preferred splitting his time between Austin and Houston rather than a Houston-Washington split. And everybody else on the ladder could be stuck, once again, where they're now perched.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Rick Perry, left, and Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BORDER CONTROL (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); BUDGETS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



541 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds a Willingness to Cut Spending, Just Not Medicare or Social Security

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and DALIA SUSSMAN; Megan Thee-Brenan and Marjorie Connelly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As President Obama and Congress brace to battle over how to reduce chronic annual budget deficits, Americans overwhelmingly say that in general they prefer cutting government spending to paying higher taxes, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
Yet their preference for spending cuts, even in programs that benefit them, dissolves when they are presented with specific options related to Medicare and Social Security, the programs that directly touch the most people and also are the biggest drivers of the government's projected long-term debt. 
Nearly two-thirds of Americans choose higher payroll taxes for Medicare and Social Security over reduced benefits in either program. And asked to choose among cuts to Medicare, Social Security or the nation's third-largest spending program -- the military -- a majority by a large margin said cut the Pentagon.
While Americans are near-unanimous in calling deficits a problem -- a ''very serious'' problem, say 7 out of 10 -- a majority believes it should not be necessary for them to pay higher taxes to bridge the shortfall between what the government spends and what it takes in. But given a choice of often-discussed revenue options, they preferred a national sales tax or a limit in the deduction for mortgage interest to a higher gasoline tax or taxing employer-provided health benefits.
Americans' sometimes contradictory impulses on spending and taxes suggest the political crosscurrents facing both parties as they gird for debate over how to address the fiscal woes of a nation with an aging population, a complex tax system and an accumulated debt that is starting to weigh on the economy.
On Thursday, a large group of House conservatives called for cutting $2.5 trillion in mostly unspecified spending over the next decade and House Republican leaders have vowed to make spending cuts a priority in coming months after winning a majority on that promise in November's midterm elections. President Obama is expected to make fiscal responsibility a central theme of his State of the Union address on Tuesday night, and of the budget he will send Congress next month for the 2012 fiscal year, which starts Oct. 1.
The antitax sentiment reflected in the poll is in line with Republicans' mantra that spending, not taxes, is the problem for the federal budget. Yet that assessment contradicts the conclusions of several bipartisan and academic panels that proposed debt-reduction plans over the past year.
Those groups -- including, in November, a bipartisan majority of Mr. Obama's fiscal commission -- each concluded that the growth in the nation's debt could not be reined in with spending cuts alone. They said the required reductions, including for Medicare and Social Security, would be deeper than anything the public would accept.
The poll of 1,036 adults nationwide, which has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points, was conducted Jan. 15 through 19 -- in the days after Mr. Obama gave a widely praised address at a Tucson memorial service for those killed in the shooting rampage that wounded Representative Gabrielle Giffords, Democrat of Arizona. Nearly two-thirds of Americans approve of his response to the shooting, the poll showed; 11 percent disapprove.
National tragedies or crises often have a rallying-around effect that buoys a president's public image. The poll, like others recently, shows Mr. Obama with a slightly improved approval rating. Nearly half of Americans, 49 percent, approve of his job performance, compared with 39 percent who do not.
The public also gives Mr. Obama the benefit of the doubt as he and Republicans adjust to their new power-sharing relationship. After a productive lame-duck session of Congress late last year, in which Mr. Obama won a number of concessions from Republicans in return for extending the Bush-era tax cuts on high incomes, the poll showed that nearly eight out of 10 Americans believe Mr. Obama will try to work with Republicans to get things done -- including 77 percent of independents and 57 percent of Republicans. Less than half of all respondents -- 46 percent -- said Republicans will try to work with Mr. Obama.
The president holds no advantage over Republicans, however, on addressing the deficit and job creation. Americans split on whom they trust more to make the right decisions on both issues. The poll holds other warning signs for the president. With the unemployment rate remaining above 9 percent, majorities disapprove of his handling of the economy (52 percent), job creation (54 percent) and the deficit (56 percent).
Fewer people than ever think Mr. Obama has the same priorities for the country as they do: 52 percent say he does not share their priorities, down from 65 percent who said he did when Mr. Obama first took office.
Representative John A. Boehner, a Republican of Ohio who is the new House speaker, is relatively unknown to the national public; the roughly one-quarter who have an opinion of him are split between those with negative and positive views.
A far-better-known Republican, Sarah Palin, also is far more disliked. She is viewed unfavorably by 57 percent of the public, including a majority of independents -- her highest negative rating ever in Times/CBS polls.
In a week that saw House Republicans vote to repeal Mr. Obama's signature domestic achievement, the law overhauling the health care system, nearly half of Americans said the law should stand. About four in 10 people support repeal, but many say they want to undo only parts of the law.
Asked what Congress should focus on, 43 percent of Americans say job creation; health care is a distant second, cited by 18 percent, followed by deficit reduction, war and illegal immigration.
If Medicare benefits have to be reduced, the most popular option is raising premiums on affluent beneficiaries. Similarly, if Social Security benefits must be changed to make the program more financially sound, a broad majority prefers the burden fall on the wealthy. Even most wealthy Americans agree.
As budget woes force a national debate over the country's domestic priorities, preserving money for education ranks at the top for most Americans.
The poll showed that the Arizona shootings had not changed Americans' general opposition to banning handguns. However, more than six in 10 favor a nationwide ban on assault weapons and on the kind of high-capacity magazine used in Tucson.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Federal Budget Deficit: Poll results to the question: In order to reduce the federal budget deficit, do you think it will be necessary or not necessary to increase taxes on people like you?(A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); FUEL TAX (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); AGING (71%); AGING TRENDS (71%); GASOLINE (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



542 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Nearly 125 Arrested in Sweeping Mob Roundup

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM; Dan Barry and Charlie Savage contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The criminal accusations spanned several states and several decades, encompassing figures from seven mob families, and led to the arrest of nearly 125 people on federal charges on Thursday.
There were murders, including a double homicide over a spilled drink in a Queens bar. There were the more run-of-the-mill activities associated with organized crime: racketeering, extortion, loan-sharking, money laundering, gambling and the like.
There were even some names from mob lore, including Luigi Manocchio, 83, the former boss of New England's Patriarca crime family, who was said to have dressed in women's clothing to avoid capture decades ago. He was arrested in Florida, accused of another mob standby: shaking down strip clubs, in Providence, R.I.
The charges were included in 16 indictments handed up in federal courts in four jurisdictions. Taken together, they amounted to what federal officials called the ''largest mob roundup in F.B.I. history.'' 
The indictments were announced by Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who appeared at a news conference on Thursday morning in Brooklyn.
For the attorney general, it was an opportunity to preside over the kind of law enforcement operation that was once the core mission of the Justice Department, but that has been largely overshadowed during his tenure by far more ambiguous issues inherited from the Bush administration. Mr. Holder spoke of the ''unprecedented scope and cooperation'' in the investigation, but questions were also raised by the diffuse nature of the indictments, which involved myriad unrelated criminal activity.
The sweep began before dawn, with 800 federal agents and state and local investigators fanning out across the region. The targets, officials said, ran the gamut from what they called small-time bookmakers and shakedown artists to mob middle managers and the entire current leadership of the Colombo crime family, as well as two senior Gambino family figures. Prosecutors said 34 made members of New York's five crime families -- Bonanno, Colombo, Gambino, Genovese and Luchese -- and crime families in New Jersey and New England were among those arrested.
By taking out the leadership of the Colombos and charging large numbers of reputed crime figures from the other families, the F.B.I. and federal prosecutors hoped the case would have a significant impact. But at the same time, officials acknowledged that the mob had shown itself to be remarkably resilient.
''Arresting and convicting the hierarchies of the five families several times over has not eradicated the problem,'' said Janice K. Fedarcyk, the head of the New York F.B.I. office, calling it a ''a myth'' that the mob is a thing of the past.
At the news conference, Mr. Holder also announced that the Justice Department was merging its Organized Crime and Racketeering Section with its Gang Unit, a move he said would provide more-experienced prosecutors and increased resources for cases like the one announced on Thursday.
Some federal, state and local law enforcement officials have privately expressed concern about a possible resurgence in some quarters of the influence of organized crime after two decades of decline.
Mr. Holder emphasized several times that organized crime remained one of the department's top priorities because mob members and associates were ''among the most dangerous criminals in our country.'' And he played down the notion of a resurgent mob, saying that while it had been weakened, and ''is probably not nationwide in its scope, in its impact, as it once was,'' it remained a continuing major threat ''to the economic well-being of this country.''
He said his decision to go to Brooklyn to announce the arrests was meant to underscore the importance of the case to the department. Others at the news conference included the head of the department's Criminal Division, Lanny A. Breuer, and the United States attorneys from Brooklyn, Manhattan, Newark and Rhode Island: Loretta E. Lynch, Preet Bharara, Paul J. Fishman and Peter F. Neronha, respectively. There were also officials from other agencies, including Raymond W. Kelly, the police commissioner of New York, and Daniel R. Petrole, the acting inspector general of the federal Labor Department.
Most of the arrests took place before 8 a.m.; by early evening, all but 3 of the 127 men sought had been taken into custody. Most of them were processed at a United States Army base in Brooklyn and arraigned in the borough's federal courthouse.
Most of the defendants whom prosecutors characterized as higher-ranking mob figures were held without bail after pleading not guilty.
A dozen of the indictments, naming more than 80 defendants, were handed up in Brooklyn. Among those charged, according to the indictment, were the Colombo street boss Andrew Russo, the acting underboss Benjamin Castellazzo and the consigliere Richard Fusco, and two high-ranking members of the Gambino family hierarchy: the consigliere Joseph Corozzo and the ruling panel member Bartolomeo Vernace.
They were named in a racketeering indictment that also charged four reputed captains and eight soldiers. The alleged crimes spanned two decades and include the 1993 murder of underboss Joseph Scopo, the family's asserted control of Local 6A of the Cement and Concrete Workers Union and the asserted defrauding of the city in connection with an annual feast, La Festa di Santa Rosalia in Bensonhurst.
Two indictments unsealed in Manhattan charged 26 men they identified as Gambino crime family figures, including Mr. Vernace and Mr. Corozzo, with racketeering, extortion, assault, arson and running a large marijuana and cocaine trafficking operation.
The indictment claims that they distributed cocaine and marijuana over 30 years, generating tens of millions of dollars in profit for the crime family. Two other racketeering indictments in Brooklyn name 13 men described as Gambino members and associates, including Mr. Vernace, who is charged in the double murder in the Shamrock Bar in Queens.
Mr. Vernace's lawyer, Gerald L. Shargel, said his client was acquitted of the murders in state court in 2002. ''These charges will be vigorously contested,'' he said.
An indictment handed up in Newark charged 14 people, including several current and former union officials who are said to be affiliated with the Genovese family, with racketeering and extortion of Local 1235 of the International Longshoremen's Association and other dockworkers' locals.
The indictment charges a conspiracy over the course of many years to extort union members around Christmastime, when they receive an annual bonus based on the number of containers moving through the port.
The indictment in Rhode Island charged Mr. Manocchio -- said to be an enduring figure in the New England mob that was named for its former leader, Raymond L. S. Patriarca Sr. -- and Thomas Iafarte, 61, with extorting strip clubs.
Mr. Manocchio, long viewed as the quiet, disciplined power behind the Patriarca family, is a man whose low-key, old-school style has, over the years, reined in a dysfunctional crime operation, officials have said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. on Thursday announced arrests in what officials called the ''largest mob roundup in F.B.I. history.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Many of the defendants were processed at an Army base in Brooklyn. They were then arraigned at the borough's federal courthouse. (POOL PHOTO)(A21)
 Luigi Manocchio in 1999. He was arrested in Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT YORK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (91%); MURDER (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); EXTORTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



543 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Pilot Program Of Bonuses For Teachers Is Suspended

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
New York City's Education Department said Thursday that it was suspending one of the signature experiments of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's control of city schools, a multimillion-dollar program that awards annual bonuses to teachers based on student performance. 
The announcement came on the same day the city announced that teachers at only 26 schools would receive schoolwide bonuses this year, down from about 160 schools last year, as far fewer schools met their performance targets on state standardized tests.
In an e-mail to principals, the city said the program would be suspended as soon as this year's bonuses were distributed, but it left open the possibility that it could be restarted if a study showed the bonuses had a positive effect in schools.
''This was always a pilot program, and we don't yet know its impact on student achievement,'' said Barbara Morgan, a department spokeswoman, of the bonuses. ''We have commissioned an independent study by the RAND Corporation that is due late this spring, and we will make a determination about whether to continue this program based on the results of that study.''
The city's tight budget was one of many factors that led to the decision, the city said. Schools absorbed a 4 percent cut to their budgets at the start of this school year, and the mayor's budget projects that thousands of teacher layoffs may be necessary for the 2011-12 school year.
The bonus system was planned as a pilot program several years ago with the support of the teachers' union, which required that the money be given to schools as a whole, rather than to individual staff members. Only high-poverty schools can qualify, and each year about 200 schools elect to participate.
In the 2007-8 school year, the program's first year, $21 million was distributed, much of it privately financed. Last year, the first year the program was publicly financed, $31 million was awarded. A total of $4.2 million will be given out for this year's teacher bonuses. Additional bonuses to principals will be announced in the coming days.
Due in large part to tougher standards on state math and English exams for third through eighth graders, the number of elementary and middle schools awarded bonuses plummeted to 12 this year, from 140 last year. There was also a slight decline in the number of high schools given bonuses.
Under the bonus program, schools receive payouts equal to $1,500 or $3,000 for each full-time unionized staff member, depending on the school's progress. A committee at the school, made up of the principal, the union chapter leader and two other school staff members, decides how to divide the money among the staff.
Michael Mulgrew, the union president, called for the bonus program to be suspended until the state tests, which state officials have said were too easy to pass, are improved and the city's budget difficulties ease.
''We should be putting the money toward the classroom right now,'' Mr. Mulgrew said. ''People are going to do their work with or without the bonuses.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); LAYOFFS (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (63%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



544 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: An American Warning to China Causes a Ripple Effect on the Korean Peninsula

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and MARTIN FACKLER; Mark Landler reported from Washington, and Martin Fackler from Seoul, South Korea. Helene Cooper and Michael Wines contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama warned President Hu Jintao that if China did not step up its pressure on North Korea, the United States would have to redeploy its forces in Asia to protect itself from a potential North Korean strike on American soil, a senior administration official said Thursday.
Mr. Obama's warning, first made in a phone call to Mr. Hu last month and repeated over a private dinner at the White House on Tuesday, persuaded China to take a harder line toward North Korea, the official said, which opened the door to a resumption of dialogue between North and South Korea. 
On Thursday, the South Korea government said that it had agreed to hold defense talks with the North, the first engagement between the Koreas since a deadly North Korean artillery attack on a South Korean island in November seemed to push the peninsula to the brink of war.
China's change of heart is far from complete: Beijing has still not condemned North Korea for torpedoing a South Korean warship. During Mr. Hu's visit, China for the first time joined the United States in publicly expressing concern over a new North Korean uranium-enrichment plant. But there were no immediate signs that it planned to punish the North for its defiance.
Still, Mr. Obama's pressure, reinforced by cabinet members like Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, moved China into much closer alignment with the United States in dealing with North Korea.
Continuing his United States tour, Mr. Hu traveled from the White House to the chillier end of Pennsylvania Avenue on Thursday to meet with lawmakers waiting to take him to task over issues like human rights and trade policy. Mr. Hu later met with business leaders.
North Korea dominated the intimate dinner that Mr. Obama held for Mr. Hu on Tuesday, the official said. Mr. Obama focused on the North's recently disclosed uranium-enrichment plant, saying that it was one part of a three-pronged threat to the United States that included the North's production of plutonium bombs and development of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Without help from China, which is the major supporter of the North Korean government, Mr. Obama told Mr. Hu that the United States would have to take long-term measures, like redeploying its forces, changing its defense posture or beefing up military exercises in Northeast Asia, according to the administration official.
''It was not meant to suggest pre-emption, but we were projecting that a North Korea that becomes a national security threat is going to get a response,'' said the official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. ''That was attention-getting for the Chinese.''
The United States angered China last year when it sent the aircraft carrier George Washington to take part in joint drills with South Korea in the Yellow Sea after the North's sinking of the South's warship.
The move to resume talks has required concessions from all sides. South Korea has had to swallow its reluctance to engage the North without an apology for its recent attacks. And the United States has had to abandon its resistance to resuming multiparty negotiations with North Korea, something Beijing has pushed and Washington has resisted as being a reward for the North's aggression.
The North proposed the defense talks, as well as a meeting between the countries' defense ministers, according to the South Korean Unification Ministry. The ministry said the South was willing to hold higher-level talks, but only if the North took responsibility for its actions.
South Korea's president, Lee Myung-bak, has been reluctant to engage at all, saying the North was following an old strategy of provoking its neighbor and then requesting talks and economic aid. The United States has gently nudged South Korea to consider renewing contacts with the North.
While the talks are a step forward, analysts cautioned that the preconditions set for higher-level negotiations might prevent any genuine progress. ''A discussion of 'viewpoints' could just be a fruitless game of words,'' said Kim Sung-han, a professor of international relations at Korea University in Seoul.
Next week, a delegation, led by Deputy Secretary of State James B. Steinberg, will travel to Seoul and Tokyo to brief officials there on the Hu visit. The administration's diplomatic efforts are particularly delicate with South Korea. Having spent so much time building solidarity with Seoul against the North Korean threat, officials said, the United States does not want to pressure the South into talks.
President Lee responded to the North's overtures in recent weeks by demanding that the North first take concrete steps to dismantle its nuclear program and apologize for its attacks, which stirred deep outrage in South Korea.
On Thursday, the North for the first time acknowledged the South's conditions and appeared to indicate a willingness to at least discuss them. The North said it wanted to clarify its ''viewpoints'' on both attacks and also to discuss lowering military tensions on the peninsula, the Unification Ministry said.
An official at the ministry, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the South would use the low-level talks to gauge the North's willingness to meet its conditions for talks between the defense ministers.
Until now, the North has denied involvement in the sinking of the warship, the Cheonan, and has said the attack on the island was provoked by South Korean military drills.
On Capitol Hill, where Mr. Hu met with Congressional leaders, there was less give and take than some lawmakers expected, according to those who were in attendance. Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas, called it ''mostly speechifying.''
The format of the meetings -- lawmakers afterward described a meeting with House leaders as stilted and formal -- did not allow for the amount of griping that the members of Congress had hoped for.
''We weren't given a chance,'' Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said afterward.
Mr. Hu was more enthusiastically received by American business and foreign-relations organizations at a luncheon celebrating his visit. He returned the favor by urging an across-the-board strengthening of relations with the United States.
Mr. Hu called for closer cooperation with the United States in Southeast Asia and the Pacific, offering an olive branch in a region where China's growing military presence has roiled relations with Washington.
He also urged Americans to look at ties to China with a view toward the future and not the disputes of the day. ''China and the United States are different,'' he said. ''It is only normal that we have some frictions. We should handle bilateral relations from the long-term perspective.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hu Jintao of China, right, met with legislators, including Senator John Kerry, left, on Capitol Hill on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (74%); NAVAL VESSELS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (68%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (61%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (76%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



545 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Talks to Resume With Iran On Uranium Enrichment

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Michael Schwirtz contributed reporting from Moscow.

 BODY:
ISTANBUL -- The United States and other world powers go into another round of talks with Iran here on Friday with low expectations, but with Iran indicating that it would like to make progress on a fuel-swap arrangement originally designed by Washington as a confidence-building measure.
The United States and its allies believe that Iran is enriching uranium far beyond its peaceful needs and trying to build a nuclear weapon, while Iran insists that its enrichment program is peaceful and says it has no intention of halting enrichment, as the United Nations Security Council has demanded. But Washington believes that Iran's position has been somewhat weakened by a new round of economic sanctions and a computer virus that has disrupted some of its enrichment of uranium, delaying the estimated timetable for an Iranian bomb. 
The last round of talks between Iran and the five permanent members of the Security Council, plus Germany and the European Union, produced little in Geneva in December except an agreement to meet again here. The leader of the Iranian delegation, Saeed Jalili, did not take up a chance for a private bilateral meeting with his American counterpart, William J. Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs.
But in Moscow on Thursday, Iran's envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency, Ali Asghar Soltanieh, said that Tehran was ''prepared to conduct negotiations'' to carry out talks to swap uranium enriched to low levels for the equivalent of manufactured fuel rods for a small reactor in Tehran that produces medical isotopes, and Iranian diplomats in Paris indicated that wide-ranging talks with Washington remained a goal.
Still, Mr. Jalili is considered by Western diplomats to be negotiating within relatively strict guidelines, and any progress would almost surely have to be ratified in Tehran before another round of talks could proceed.
Iran had agreed in October 2009 to send about 2,645 pounds of low-enriched uranium to Russia and France to be manufactured into fuel rods -- at the time about 75 percent of Iran's known stockpile of low-enriched uranium, which is enriched to between 3.5 and 5 percent. The deal was meant to leave Iran with less low-enriched uranium than it would need to build a bomb. But the deal fell apart because of disagreements in Iran, including the reported opposition of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
An effort by Turkey and Brazil last May to revive the deal was rejected by Washington and its allies because Iran had continued to produce more enriched uranium in the intervening months. There was also concern that Iran would not export the uranium but merely park it offshore where it might be retrieved. The effort strained ties between Washington and Turkey and Brazil, and Turkey is still trying hard to be a diplomatic go-between for Iran and the West, though not always successfully.
Today, Iran has known stockpiles of about 7,700 pounds of low-enriched uranium and about 90 pounds of uranium enriched to 19.75 percent, which is about halfway to bomb grade, officials said. So any new deal for a fuel swap will have to include much bigger amounts if it is to accomplish the same end of confidence-building.
The West would also like to see Iran agree to a protocol of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty that requires signatories to tell the International Atomic Energy Agency when they begin construction of a nuclear facility, not just when it goes into service. So far Iran says that it is complying with the treaty as Tehran signed it, without the protocol. On that basis, Tehran was able to defend the Qum enrichment site that was built in secret and revealed through espionage, but was not yet operational.
The new economic sanctions are biting in Iran, but have not put the regime at risk, Western diplomats concede. The United States and France are already considering what a further round of sanctions might include, and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton recently suggested unilateral sanctions.
But Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said here on Thursday that Moscow considered any unilateral sanctions ''counterproductive,'' and that it wanted instead to discuss how to eliminate the existing ones as part of the talks with Iran.
Iran's ''nuclear program must be at the heart of the discussions and the problems that have not yet been resolved concerning it,'' Mr. Lavrov said at a news conference with his Turkish counterpart, Ahmet Davutoglu. ''But there's not only one topic for this meeting. The lifting of sanctions on Iran must also be on the agenda.''
Mr. Davutoglu hosted a dinner Thursday night for all the delegations, a way to get this round of talks off to a more cordial start. The talks are scheduled to end on Saturday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (56%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (75%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (89%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); TURKEY (93%); IRAN (90%); FRANCE (87%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



546 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Even Mayor Cannot Escape Complexity of Immigration Issue

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
On ''Meet the Press,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg declared, ''We have to go and get the immigrants here.'' To a group of business leaders in Brooklyn, he extolled ''the economic power'' of immigration. And in his State of the City address on Wednesday, he interrupted a litany of local issues to urge Americans ''to fix our broken immigration system.''
Having taken on the New York City school system and the illegal gun trade, Mr. Bloomberg has now proposed overhauling the federal immigration laws, offering himself as the man to help settle one of the nation's thorniest debates. He praises immigrants as a precious resource and speaks of current immigration policy with undisguised disgust -- ''the most ruinous economic policy you could ever conceive of'' was his line on Wednesday.
But the stark language often brushes past the complexities surrounding immigration, which has proved to be a nuanced and difficult issue, even for the mayor. 
Though Mr. Bloomberg, the grandson of immigrants from Russia and what is now Belarus, has set an inclusive tone in his nine years as mayor and has provided critical services for immigrants, some programs have failed to live up to expectations.
And though he has adopted landmark policies to protect the privacy of illegal immigrants, he has also rankled immigrants' advocates who say city and police officials work too closely with federal authorities, putting many noncriminals at risk of arrest and deportation.
''Mayor Bloomberg has been an important ally of immigrant communities,'' said Andrew Friedman, co-director of Make the Road New York, an advocacy group. ''But there are a number of areas where he has not used his power, and as a result, immigrant New Yorkers are more likely to be deported, less likely to learn English, less likely to be paid lawful wages.''
Supporting immigrant causes is virtually a job requirement for any New York mayor, but many immigrants and their supporters say Mr. Bloomberg has gone well beyond the expected. His New York is a city where illegal immigrants start businesses, raise families and attend public school without the constant fear, prevalent in many parts of the country, that they can be deported if a police officer notices them.
The city's information line, 311, greets callers in Spanish, Russian, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean and Creole. In his address on Wednesday, the mayor promised new programs to help immigrant entrepreneurs obtain loans and expertise.
Yet even as New York ranks among the American cities most accommodating to newcomers, certain practices keep immigrants on edge. At the city jail complex on Rikers Island, Correction Department officials provide lists of foreign-born inmates to federal officers who then question, detain and deport about 3,200 a year. Immigrants' advocates say the collaboration leads to the removal of many immigrants who have not been convicted of, or even charged with, serious crimes, and makes others afraid to cooperate with law enforcement.
Mr. Bloomberg's efforts to make city agencies more accessible to people who speak little or no English have won wide acclaim. In 2003, he signed a law requiring the city's Human Resources Administration and social service agencies to provide interpreters and other language help; an executive order in 2008 extended that to every agency dealing with the public.
But Legal Services NYC, a nonprofit group, is suing the Human Resources Administration, saying that follow-through has been spotty, leading to ''humiliating discrimination'' against immigrants. Many city workers remain unaware of the rules, and some are unequipped to help people who speak other languages, lawyers and advocates say.
''There is a big disconnect between what our city policy says and what's happening,'' said Amy S. Taylor, the lawyer who filed the suit.
Mr. Bloomberg said in a recent interview that language access was improving. But, he noted, ''you're never going to have every language spoken in every agency 24 hours a day.''
He said that he had worked to build trust between immigrants and government agencies, and that newcomers were crucial to New York's success.
''Our lifeblood is a constant stream of new immigrants,'' he said, ''to improve our cuisine, our culture, our language and, mainly, our economy.''
Mr. Bloomberg began his third term a year ago by announcing plans for a national task force of big-city mayors and prominent business leaders to press Congress for an overhaul of immigration policy. His principal argument was, and is, that immigrants are good for the economy because they open businesses, create jobs and pay taxes.
There is disagreement over how much influence Mr. Bloomberg, an independent, might wield in the national debate over immigration, given the Republicans' takeover of the House and their chilliness to any thaw in immigration policy. But few doubt his influence in New York, where City Hall officials point to a series of pro-immigrant policies and decisions that they call national models.
''It started when he took office,'' said Fatima Shama, commissioner of the city's Office of Immigrant Affairs. ''He was able to focus New Yorkers on being one city, and showing that all New Yorkers matter. From that, we saw a number of policies emerge.''
Chief among them was Executive Order No.41, issued in 2003, which sought to protect crime victims and witnesses from fear of deportation by forbidding city workers to ask immigrants about their legal status.
A similar policy had been in place since the Koch administration, but by the time Mr. Bloomberg took office, a federal challenge and subsequent court decisions had made its renewal uncertain. The Bloomberg administration came up with an approach that broadened the policy and drew no challenges.
Like the earlier measures, however, Mr. Bloomberg's order made an exception allowing police officers who suspect illegal activity to inquire about immigration status. While there is no evidence that it has led to widespread profiling or harassment, advocates have complained for years, particularly with regard to the Police Department, that there is no mechanism in place to enforce the policy or investigate violations.
Immigrants' leaders also lament that the mayor has not joined some officials of other municipalities across the country in resisting Secure Communities, a new program that will help federal officials deport illegal immigrants by improving coordination with local police departments.
Mr. Bloomberg said that while he aimed to accommodate immigrants, he was responsible for keeping the city safe. ''If people commit crimes, we have an obligation,'' he said. ''If they broke the law, make them pay the penalty.''
The Bloomberg administration has also sought to solve intractable problems like finding legal representation for immigrants, who are not entitled to court-appointed lawyers in the civil courts, where their immigration violations are heard. City Hall has pledged to provide $2 million to provide lawyers and training, placing New York far ahead of the national norm on the issue, said Robert A. Katzmann, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit who has worked closely with the administration.
The mayor has not endorsed every suggested change in immigration policy, particularly when a proposal collides with his pro-business agenda. For example, he resisted calls to support a state bill, signed into law last month by Gov. David A. Paterson, to set stiffer penalties for employers who underpay workers, many of them illegal immigrants; Mr. Bloomberg's aides say he was concerned about its effect on small businesses.
For many, though, Mr. Bloomberg's signal mark on the immigration debate had nothing to do with policy. His declaration of support for the planned Islamic community center and mosque near ground zero was a stirring affirmation that the mayor would champion the city's diversity, advocates said.
''That was a defining moment,'' said Chung-Wha Hong, the executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition. ''He didn't really have to do that. He got there because of the connections and the work he's done and his whole philosophy on immigration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg before delivering his State of the City address Wednesday on Staten Island. He urged changing the immigration system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DEPORTATION (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); CITIES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); PRISONS (62%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); BELARUS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



547 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: At Term's End, Buffett to Leave Board of Washington Post Co.

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
2:56 p.m. Updated Warren Buffett, the investor whose guidance is considered gospel by many on Wall Street, is leaving his long-held position on the board of the Washington Post Company. 
The Post Company announced on Thursday that Mr. Buffett, 80, would not seek re-election to the board after his term expires in May. Mr. Buffett has been with the board for nearly 40 years, with the exception of an eight-year period when he stepped aside to serve on the board of Capital Cities, which was the parent company of the rival media company ABC at the time.
Mr. Buffett's move was the latest to signal that he is winding down his long and successful career. In October, he named an heir apparent to manage the investments at his company, Berkshire Hathaway. And in 2006 he relinquished his seat on the board of Coca-Cola.
''For most of the last 37 years, we've been privileged to have on our board perhaps the best adviser any company could have had throughout that period,'' said Donald E. Graham, chairman of the Post Company.
''Warren has encouraged us to continue to consult him on company matters, and with the encouragement of our board, calls to the 402 area code will not be decreasing,'' Mr. Graham added, referring to the area code for Omaha, where Mr. Buffett lives and his company is based.
Berkshire Hathaway, which also owns The Buffalo News, is the largest shareholder in Post stock. It owns about 21 percent, or 1.7 million, of the publicly traded shares.
Mr. Buffett was an adviser and close friend to Katharine Graham, the longtime Post Company chairwoman.
What effect, if any, the departure of Mr. Buffett will have on the company or its image is unclear. The Post stock price rose slightly in midday trading, to just over $430 a share. The association of Mr. Buffett with a particular company is widely seen by investors as a tacit blessing from him and therefore interpreted as a sign that the company is a valuable investment.
A spokeswoman for the Post Company said Berkshire Hathaway had not indicated any intention to decrease its holdings of Post stock.
Mr. Buffett made a brief statement in which he stressed his faith in the Post Company, which like many media companies with a large print business is facing significant economic challenges. It has also struggled as its profitable Kaplan division has been criticized for enrolling needy students who have little means with which to repay their loans.
''I've loved The Washington Post since I delivered almost 500,000 copies of it as a youth in Washington,'' Mr. Buffett said. ''That love for the product, the company and the management continues unabated today. I will always be available to help management in any way they request. It's been a great 37 years.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARENT COMPANIES (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (92%); WASHINGTON POST CO (92%); COCA-COLA CO (56%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (92%); BRK.A (NYSE) (92%); WPO (NYSE) (92%); KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (92%); DONALD E GRAHAM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (58%) NEBRASKA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



548 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Obama Alters Panel Of Advisers

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
SCHENECTADY, N.Y. -- President Obama will name Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive officer and chairman of General Electric, on Friday to run his outside panel of economic advisers, replacing Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, who is stepping down, the White House said.
Mr. Immelt will chair a new Council on Jobs and Competitiveness that Mr. Obama intends to create by executive order. In a statement issued shortly after midnight, Mr. Obama said he wants the council to ''focus its work on finding new ways to encourage the private sector to hire and invest in American competitiveness.'' 
The council will be a reconfigured version of the board Mr. Volcker chaired, the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board. That body, created by Mr. Obama when he took office in the thick of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, is set to expire on Feb. 6.
The changes signal what the White House describes as ''a new phase of our recovery,'' a shift from crisis to job creation. They come as Mr. Obama has been working hard to repair his frayed relations with the business community. Mr. Immelt, who was a member of the original board, has been a frequent presence by the president's side in recent months, as Mr. Obama has sought to spotlight his efforts on behalf of American companies overseas.
He was with Mr. Obama when the president traveled to India in November. During a stop in Mumbai, the White House announced a string of business deals between India and American companies, including a $750 million order from India's Reliance Power Ltd. for steam turbines manufactured by General Electric.
And Mr. Immelt was with the president again this week during the visit of President Hu Jintao of China. The G.E. executive attended a high-level meeting Mr. Obama convened with business leaders and Mr. Hu. He was also a guest at Wednesday night's state dinner in honor of the Chinese leader.
''Jeff Immelt's experience at G.E. and his understanding of the vital role the private sector plays in creating jobs and making America competitive makes him up to the challenge of leading this new council,'' Mr. Obama said. The president will make the announcement of Mr. Immelt's appointment during a visit to Schenectady, the birthplace of General Electric and home to G.E.'s largest energy division. The steam turbines purchased by Reliance Power will be built there.
It was well known in Washington that Mr. Volcker, 83, had sometimes been frustrated in his role as an outside adviser to the president. In the statement, Mr. Obama thanked Mr. Volcker for his service and pledged to continue to call on the former Fed chairman for advice, saying, ''He will always be a member of my team.''
In reconstituting his economic advisory panel, Mr. Obama appears to have changed its mission from stabilizing the economy to increasing employment, something signaled by the board's new name, the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness.
Mr. Immelt, who became chairman and chief executive officer of General Electric in 2001, has worked closely with the Obama administration. The G.E. executive announced his new role as head of the jobs panel in a Washington Post opinion piece on Friday, and he was also scheduled to appear with the president the same day at a General Electric plant in Schenectady, N.Y.
''The president and I are committed to a candid and full dialogue among business, labor and government to help ensure that the United States has the most competitive and innovative economy in the world,'' he said in the piece. ''My hope is that the council will be a sounding board for ideas and a catalyst for action on jobs and competitiveness. It will include small and large businesses, labor, economists and government.''
During Mr. Volcker's time as head of the previous panel, the former Fed chairman met periodically with Mr. Obama and had something of a lukewarm relationship with the administration, which mostly obtained its economic guidance from Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, and Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council. Mr. Volcker, however, became well known for crafting a measure that restricts the ability of banks whose deposits are federally insured from trading for their own benefit. Mr. Obama proposed the ''Volcker rule'' in January 2010 as part of a broader financial regulatory reform effort, though the measure has been fiercely opposed by some banks and Wall Street firms.
Mr. Obama's statement called Mr. Volcker ''one of the wisest economic minds'' in the country, and someone who has ''fought for policies that help American families and strengthen our economy.''
Mr. Immelt's appointment comes as Mr. Obama has increasingly turned to people with close ties to the business sector for counsel in the wake of the setbacks of the midterm elections, something highlighted by the appointment of William M. Daley, the former Commerce secretary and senior executive at JPMorgan Chase, as the president's chief of staff.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); TURBINE MFG (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%); RELIANCE POWER LTD (83%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%); RPOWER (NSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JEFFREY IMMELT (90%); HU JINTAO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



549 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: You Think Houses Are a Slow Sell? Just Try a Yacht

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
What is tougher than having one sleek mega-yacht for sale in a glutted market? The answer, for the moment at least, is having two mega-yachts on the market.
In boom times, yacht enthusiasts would order a new dream boat and keep their old one for the two or three years the builder needed to complete the new boat. Then, they would quickly sell the older yacht to impatient new millionaires and billionaires eager for their requisite status symbols.
But that equation changed with the financial crisis two years ago and took the superyacht market down with it.
Some of the wealthy have ended up like Peter A. Hochfelder, the principal and founder of Brahman Capital Management, a private investment firm in Manhattan. Mr. Hochfelder already owned a 134-foot Lurssen, named Blind Date, that was built in 1995. He commissioned a second boat in 2007, a 161-foot Trinity yacht, that he christened with the same name. It was completed in 2009. 
Now, Mr. Hochfelder, who declined to be interviewed, has put both on the market, in the hope that he can sell at least one. He has been asking $9.5 million for the older yacht and $33 million for the new one, which is big enough to sleep 12 guests.
Maintaining a big yacht, after all, is expensive. Yacht specialists estimate that Mr. Hochfelder pays about $4 million a year to run his two boats.
''It was a fool's paradise,'' said Malcolm Maclean, editor at BoatInternational.com, a Web site that tracks the yacht industry. Now, he said of the owners who cannot get rid of their boats, ''They have caught very bad colds.'' By one estimate, 300 new boats were sold annually worldwide from the mid-1990s until the 2008 collapse, when sales dropped to about 100 boats.
Gone are the days when a speculator could systematically put yachts up on the market and count on a quick sale. Ian McGlinn, the British car salesman, who died in June, made his fortune by lending Anita L. Roddick, the founder of the Body Shop cosmetics chain, $:4,000 ($6,345) to open a second store. According to several yacht brokers, Mr. McGlinn commissioned a series of boats during the boom, all called Tigre d'Or, and sold them at a profit to buyers unwilling to spend two years waiting for a boat.
Today, it certainly is a buyer's market, with everything from 100-foot yachts to those measuring more than 200 feet for sale. The 161-foot Mine Games, a boat built by Trinity Yachts of Gulfport, Miss., was put on the market for $27 million several months ago, for example, because its owner, Chris Cline, who heads Cline Resource and Development, a mine development company, had a larger boat on order.
The industry has picked up a bit in recent months, although most buyers remain on the sidelines. ''The inquiry level is picking up,'' said William S. Smith III, vice president of Trinity, the largest custom yacht builder in the United States. ''And there is more activity in the used-boat market. But there is still a lot of inventory, and as long as that is the case, people are keeping their hands in their pockets.''
Fear is part of the problem. The wealthy are holding on to their money, and even speculators who built yachts, confident that they could find willing buyers among the new rich, are largely on the sidelines.
Nor has the drop-off been confined to the United States. ''Lehman Brothers went down during the Monaco boat show of 2008,'' Mr. Smith said. ''And all of these European brokers were smug at first because they thought the European market was decoupled from the U.S. market. But before the show was over, they were not so smug. It had affected everybody.''
Some specialists contend that Americans, who had long accounted for a majority of the yacht market, have lost so much money that they are leery of committing to any big-ticket items.
Whether that suggests a permanent shift toward buyers in the fast-growing economies around the world is still unclear, but several boat brokers noted that among recent sales, one has been to a Mexican mogul and two to Malaysian businessmen.
Mad Summer, a 257-foot yacht with a helicopter pad and refueling station, two Jacuzzis, a movie theater and other luxuries, was sold earlier last year. Although the sale price was never disclosed, the asking price was 135 million euros ($179 million). Specialists say the actual purchase price was $100 million, and the buyer was a Mexican who has renamed the boat TV. Several yacht brokers say the new owner is Emilio Azcarraga Jean, the billionaire head of Grupo Televisa, the giant Mexican TV and telenovella company. Lourdes Dussauge, a spokeswoman for Mr. Azcarraga, declined to comment.
The Chinese have not come into the market, although brokers are hoping that the ultimate status symbol will catch their attention. ''It is a big question mark whether the Chinese will embrace yachting,'' said Bob McKeage, a yacht broker in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. ''So far it is mostly Hong Kong Chinese, not mainland people.'' It remains a question mark because forecasting cultural appetites for yachts is not simple. He noted, for example, that there was vast wealth in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Venezuela, but only the Venezuelans were avid yacht buyers.
While rank speculation may be gone from the yacht market, there are still billionaires who like to sail the seven seas and are willing to pay for that pleasure.
Some yacht brokers say that Americans are holding back now largely because they fear being viewed as profligate when many people have lost jobs, and that they will soon return.
And there are signs of life. Mr. Maclean of BoatInternational.com said an American had ordered a 344-foot yacht from Feadship, the Dutch shipbuilder. Meanwhile, M/Y Musashi, a new yacht for Lawrence J. Ellison, the chief executive of Oracle, is undergoing sea tests. But given the long lead time to build boats, it was probably ordered before the financial crisis, as was the yacht Silver Shalis for the real estate developer Larry Silverstein.
Certainly, the escalating prices for assets like art and antiques suggest that the superrich are increasingly opening their purses and looking for investments that will hold their value.
But whether Americans will dominate the market when better times return is a matter of debate among brokers. Mr. Smith, for example, said: ''The Russians are coming back and so are the Indians. I don't think Americans will dominate it as they once did.''
For the moment, it is just as easy to charter as to buy. Chartering has come back faster than the business of buying boats, or, as Mr. Maclean put it, ''Would you buy a house right now?'' alluding to the uncertainties in that market. Shannon Webster, a yacht broker based in Fort Lauderdale, said her business this winter had been good. ''It is not tremendous, but it is up quite a bit from last year,'' she said. ''My price points are about $200,000 a week. That is for a boat that sleeps 12 people and has 11 in crew. It is 164 feet.'' But she added that yacht owners were more willing to negotiate.
Certainly $200,000 a week is only for the very rich. But in comparison to a $20 million yacht, it is, some might say, a bargain.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mine Games, a custom Trinity yacht with a heliport, is available for $27 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM RAYCROFT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BOAT BUILDING (78%); BOAT DEALERS (78%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); COSMETICS (73%); SALES FIGURES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (65%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (65%)

COMPANY: CLINE RESOURCE & DEVELOPMENT CO (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (50%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



550 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: City's Housing Chief, Advocate For Affordability, Is Resigning

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Rafael E. Cestero, who as commissioner of the city Department of Housing Preservation and Development had the task of protecting and building low-cost housing during the real estate crash, will leave his job in March for a private-sector post, the mayor's office announced on Friday. 
Mr. Cestero, 42, led the housing agency for two years, succeeding Shaun Donovan, who left to become the secretary of Housing and Urban Development in the Obama administration. Mr. Cestero said he was leaving in part of because of his family; his wife and three children live in Westfield, N.J., and he lives in Dumbo, Brooklyn, on weekdays.
He will join the affordable-housing developer L+M Development Partners as the managing director, focusing on creating housing in New Jersey and on the Gulf Coast and the West Coast. L+M has contracts with New York, but Mr. Cestero will not be involved with its activities in the city.
''I came to H.P.D. to help the agency figure out how to manage its way through the worst economy we've seen in a long time,'' he said. ''I feel like we've been enormously successful.''
Mr. Cestero has worked in the housing field for 21 years, largely in the nonprofit private sector, a background that endeared him to many affordable-housing advocates. He joined the housing department in 2004 as deputy commissioner of development, leaving in 2007 and returning in February 2009 as commissioner. His successor has not been named.
Mr. Cestero took over the agency as credit markets dried up, freezing new construction and imperiling the city's New Housing Marketplace Plan, which pledges that the city will, by 2014, create or preserve 165,000 homes affordable to lower- and middle-income people.
During his tenure as commissioner, Mr. Cestero earned the respect of housing advocates for working to preserve rundown multifamily buildings that had been bought at inflated prices and then abandoned by speculators after the real estate market imploded. The agency helped usher troubled portfolios, such as the Ocelot buildings in the Bronx, into new and responsible ownership, protecting them from potential predatory investors.
Mr. Cestero also oversaw the recent creation of an aggressive code enforcement team to identify deteriorating buildings by monitoring complaints so that the agency can intervene before maintenance problems lead to serious damage.
''He's been impressive, I have to say, and we're not always quick to compliment an H.P.D. commissioner,'' said Benjamin Dulchin, executive director of the nonprofit Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development. ''It took a meaningful vision to see that H.P.D. could use its bully pulpit to think outside the box and create good outcomes for affordable housing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



551 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Maintaining the Safety Net

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''How the G.O.P. Can Cut and Survive,'' by Ramesh Ponnuru (Op-Ed, Jan. 14): Maybe the real lesson to be learned from the history of failed Republican efforts to ''take on'' Medicare and Social Security recounted by Mr. Ponnuru is that the American public wants a secure and dependable safety net. 
Maybe another lesson is that the Republicans are wrong in thinking that these programs are a drag on economic growth. In fact, these programs provide the security that promotes economic well-being and growth; the insecurity that arises from constant threats to these programs is the drag on the economy.
Republicans should stop demonizing Medicare and Social Security and work with the Democrats to find solutions for their long-term health.
Stuart Math New York, Jan. 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



552 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Shamed Into Altering A Mortgage

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
In physics, the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle states that the process of observing subatomic particles affects their behavior. We have a similar principle in journalism: the process of reporting a story can sometimes affect the behavior of those being reported on. Last Wednesday, the Heisenberg Journalism Principle was on full display in a courtroom at the Queens County Courthouse, in New York.
The case involved Lilla Roberts, the 73-year-old retired physical therapist I wrote about last month, whose home in Jamaica, N.Y., had been foreclosed on last summer by Bank of America without her knowledge and turned over to Fannie Mae, which was in the process of trying to evict her. With the help of a young public interest lawyer, Elizabeth Lynch, Ms. Roberts filed a lawsuit aimed at stopping the eviction and reversing the foreclosure, something Ms. Lynch conceded was a long shot.
Ms. Roberts's story -- buttressed with ample documentation provided by Ms. Lynch -- was both awful and emblematic of the whole foreclosure mess. Having fallen behind on her mortgage when her upstairs tenant stopped paying his rent, Ms. Roberts spent the next three years banging her head against a wall trying to get a mortgage modification. 
Three times she had gotten a short-term ''forbearance agreement'' requiring her to fork over thousands of dollars up front while her servicer -- first Wilshire Credit, and then, in early 2010, Bank of America -- supposedly worked out a modification. A formal loan modification never materialized. In her anxiety over keeping her house, Ms. Roberts sent mortgage checks when her forbearance agreement ran out, only to have them returned uncashed. She constantly got the runaround.
She had to deal with a brutal foreclosure mill law firm, Steven J. Baum, which tried to get her to sign away her legal rights. Right up until it foreclosed, Bank of America was telling Ms. Roberts that a modification plan was in the works. Ms. Lynch, for her part, discovered enough examples of shoddy and perhaps deceptive paperwork to suggest that Bank of America might not have even had the legal standing to foreclose.
A pleasant and modest woman, Ms. Roberts couldn't be a more sympathetic character. But she also struck me as exactly the kind of person that a loan modification is supposed to help. As a retiree, she had steady income. Like many people who have short-term financial setbacks, once she fell behind, she could never catch up, so she needed the kind of reset that mortgage modifications provide. Her house wasn't underwater.
Yes, she had taken out a subprime mortgage, but that was because refinancing her home was the only way she could afford needed repairs. Bank of America claims that she pulled out over $140,000 in a big refinancing in 2005, but Ms. Roberts was stunned when I mentioned that figure to her. By her recollection, she never got more than $10,000 in cash. (''You tell Bank of America that if I had $140,000, I wouldn't need a modification,'' she said.) And yet a mere four months after taking over her servicing contract, Bank of America foreclosed.
Things quickly changed after my column was published. Within days, Fannie Mae handed the house back to Bank of America and washed its hands of the deal. Bank of America then did what it should have done in the first place: investigate whether Ms. Roberts was a good candidate for a loan modification. And whaddya know? She was!
It wasn't long before Ms. Lynch and the bank hammered out the outline of a loan modification plan. Ms. Lynch insisted that her client pay no more than $1,200 a month, and that she have a fixed-rate mortgage. The bank agreed. It offered her a $374,000 mortgage -- the approximate value of her home -- with a 2 percent interest rate and a 40-year term. It would require Ms. Roberts to make monthly payments of $1,140 a month.
It was, unquestionably, a great deal, one that would allow Ms. Roberts to live in her house the rest of her life, and avoid having to move to a shelter, something she feared greatly. But there were two sticking points. The loan included $12,000 in unexplained fees, which Ms. Lynch viewed as a sneaky effort to pay the bank's lawyers, something the judge presiding over the case, Duane A. Hart, had already said he wouldn't allow. And it had a big balloon payment at the end that included nearly $50,000 in accumulated interest.
Such balloon payments have become common features in mortgage modifications because the banks get to avoid writing down principal -- and everyone involved gets to kick the can. Ms. Lynch didn't object to the balloon payment, but it bothered her that Bank of America had drafted a mortgage that allowed it to be made whole. She felt the bank should be compelled to feel a little pain because of the pain it had put her client through. So she insisted that it swallow half the interest in the balloon payment. The bank refused. With neither side willing to budge, they took their disagreement to Judge Hart on Wednesday morning.
Duane Hart is a large, imposing man, a veteran judge who rules over his courtroom a little like the way Henry VIII once ruled over England. It is his way or the highway, and woe to anyone who disagrees. He can be loud, overbearing, imperious and sarcastic. (''Do you have a defense yet?'' he mocked one hapless lawyer.) When I did a Google search, I discovered that he has been censured twice for actions on the bench that can best be described as improper bullying.
He also struck me, though, as someone whose heart was fundamentally in the right place. Running roughshod over this or that legal nicety, he was trying to get to some place that approximated justice.
The Roberts motion was the 37th -- and last -- of the morning, but things move quickly in Judge Hart's courtroom, and within an hour, Ms. Lynch and her opposing counsel were standing before him. It did not begin well for Bank of America. The first thing Judge Hart did was toss out the $12,000 in unexplained fees. Then, as I sat in the jury box taking notes -- and with everybody knowing exactly what I was doing there -- one of the bank's lawyers, Andrew B. Messite of Reed Smith, explained to the judge that while the bank's modification proposal was ''excellent,'' his side was ''not comfortable discussing it publicly.''
The judge responded angrily. ''We do things out in the open in this courtroom,'' he said. He shooed the lawyers back to their seats while he got his clerk to find a court reporter. Not only were the proceedings going to be discussed out on the open; they would be transcribed for posterity.
Fifteen minutes later, the lawyers resumed their posts, this time accompanied by their respective clients: an outreach specialist for Bank of America; and Ms. Roberts herself, who had come to court dressed in a colorful sweater and a bright green beret. Caren L. Samplin, a lawyer with Steven J. Baum who was also representing Bank of America, quickly laid out the terms. Judge Hart's eyes lit up as he listened.
''This is consistent with what I've been asking the banks to do every since this crisis started,'' he said after she had finished. Then he added sarcastically, ''And you'll do this for everyone even when The New York Times is not writing about it?''
Ms. Samplin replied, lamely, ''There are different circumstances in every case.'' She added that the bank was waiving a number of fees to make this mortgage work.
After asking Ms. Roberts a few questions, Judge Hart turned his attention to Ms. Lynch. What, he wanted to know, was she objecting to? She began to explain the sheer hell that Ms. Roberts had been through and why she thought the size of the balloon payment was onerous. ''She'd have to be the third-oldest person in America for her to live to see that balloon,'' Judge Hart replied.
''It is interest that should have been paid and wasn't,'' chimed in Mr. Messite.
''But it means they've done nothing wrong!'' Ms. Lynch blurted out. The judge looked at her sternly. ''We strive for fairness around here,'' he said. ''This is fair. A flat balloon payment is 40 years away.''
''The house could be worth $750,000 by then,'' Ms. Samplin said. This, of course, is exactly the kind of thinking that gave us the foreclosure crisis in the first place. But never mind.
Judge Hart wasn't finished yet. Turning again to Ms. Lynch, he said, ''Your duty is to represent your client, not to carry the torch for the entire Western world. Does it suit Ms. Roberts?''
''Yes,'' replied Ms. Lynch.
''I assume you will take it,'' Judge Hart said. With that, he set a date for a new hearing -- just in case -- and let the parties go to settle their now negligible differences.
When I called James Mahoney, a Bank of America spokesman, he made the point, as he had before, that Bank of America had made a lot of loan modifications -- nearly 800,000. But it also serviced another 1.3 million people whose mortgages were in trouble. Then he said he would e-mail me a statement.
''This case is unfortunately like hundreds of thousands across the country during the housing boom,'' it read. ''The borrower refinanced and extracted a large sum of cash from the equity in the home, then fell behind and missed 27 monthly payments. We need to resolve these cases either through loan mods when possible or foreclosures when unavoidable -- only then will we get the housing market and the economy back on track.''
Whether or not you agree with his mean-spirited analysis of the particulars -- and I'm far from convinced -- one thing is unarguable: a mere seven months ago, Ms. Roberts's home was, by the bank's lights, in the category of unavoidable foreclosure. Now, though her financial circumstances are unchanged, she is on the verge of getting a loan modification that will suit her, the bank and the investors owning the mortgage.
If only the bank could have come to this conclusion without having to be prodded by the Heisenberg Journalism Principle.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bank of America has agreed to adjust the mortgage for Lilla Roberts, 73, who has lived in her house in Queens since 1988. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); EVICTION (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); LAWYERS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (70%); STANDING TO SUE (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (56%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (71%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (71%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



553 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Retirement Savings Sprint to the Finish

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
What would you do if your financial planner prescribed the following advice? Save and invest diligently for 30 years, then cross your fingers and pray your investments will double over the last decade before you retire.
You might as well go to Las Vegas.
Yet that's exactly what many professionals and fancy financial calculators have been telling consumers for years, argues Michael Kitces, director of research at the Pinnacle Advisory Group in Columbia, Md., who recently illustrated this notion in his blog, Nerd's Eye View.
The advice is never delivered in those exact words, of course. Instead, this is the more familiar refrain: save a healthy slice of your salary from the start of your career, invest it in a diversified portfolio and then you should be able to retire with relative ease.
The problem is that even if you do everything right and save at a respectable rate, you're still relying on the market to push you to the finish line in the last decade before retirement. Why? Reaching your goal is highly dependent on the power of compounding -- or the snowball effect, where your pile of money grows at a faster clip as more interest (or investment growth) grows on top of more interest. In fact, you're actually counting on your savings, in real dollars and cents, to double during that home stretch. 
But if you're dealt a bad set of returns during an extended period of time just before you retire or shortly thereafter, your plan could be thrown wildly off track. Many baby boomers know the feeling all too well, given the stock market's weak showing during the last decade.
''The way the math really works out is unbelievably dependent on the final few years,'' Mr. Kitces said. ''I just don't think we've really acknowledged just what a leap the very last part really is.''
Consider the numbers for a 26-year-old who earns $40,000 annually, with a long-term savings target of $1 million. To get there, she's told to save 8 percent of her salary each year over her 40-year career. (We assumed an annual investment return of 7 percent, and 3 percent annual salary growth, to keep pace with inflation). Yet after 31 years of diligent savings, her portfolio is worth just slightly more than $483,000.
To clear the $1 million mark, her portfolio essentially must double in the nine years before she retires, and the market must cooperate (unless she finds a way to travel back in time and significantly increase her savings).
Should the markets misbehave, however, delivering a mere 2 percent return over the 10 years before retirement (not all that hard to imagine, considering the return of a portfolio split between stock and bonds over the last decade), she falls short by about a third. Her portfolio would be worth only about $640,000. The chart accompanying this column illustrates this.
You can quibble with our assumptions in this example. But a similar pattern emerges regardless of your financial targets and projected returns, Mr. Kitces says. So if your target is to save $500,000 or $2 million, and if you assume a 6 percent return or a higher 10 percent, you're still relying on your investments to roughly double in the final years before retirement.
Of course, an extended period of dismal returns during any point in your career can inflict damage. But the homestretch before retirement is often the most anxiety-inducing because workers have neither the time nor the financial capacity to recover before they begin taking withdrawals. ''Getting the bad 2 percent decade in the earlier years has far less impact because there are fewer contributions already invested,'' Mr. Kitces said. ''Conversely, when the bad returns come in the final 10 years, no reasonable amount of savings will make up the shortfall.''
So what's an investor to do about all of this, especially as one of the other pillars of retirement savings -- pensions -- disappears? And who's to say how Social Security may change by the time that 26-year-old retires?
Most of the solutions, if you can call them that, fall into the ''easier said than done'' category. If you can't handle the uncertainty of missing your financial targets, you can try to save more and create a less volatile portfolio, Mr. Kitces says, which may also provide a firmer retirement date.
And naturally, the earlier you start saving, the sooner you're likely to reach the critical mass you'll need for compounding to accelerate (assuming the markets provide some lift in the first half of your career). But you will still need to save more than many retirement calculators suggest, since they're likely to recommend saving a lower amount when you have such a long time horizon. Then you can end up in the same predicament, where you are heavily leaning on market returns in the years before retirement.
''What the wise person does is save a large amount of money when they are young,'' said William Bernstein, author of ''The Investor's Manifesto: Preparing for Prosperity, Armageddon and Everything in Between'' and other investing books. ''And if they can do that, when they are older, they can cut back on their equity allocation. When you've won the game, you stop playing the game.''
But that can be hard to accomplish when you have other needs competing for those dollars, whether it's a down payment for a house, a 529 college savings plan or starting a business. Or perhaps you're already living on less because you're unemployed (or underemployed) or because health insurance consumes a significant chunk of your income.
''It's the cruel irony of retirement planning that those people who most need the markets' help have the least financial capacity to take the risk,'' said Milo Benningfield, a financial planner in San Francisco. ''Meanwhile, the people who can afford the risk are the ones who least need to take it.''
A more prudent course of action is a flexible one that acknowledges the many possibilities and accounts for ideal and less-than-ideal spending amounts.
Try using different assumptions for the years leading up to retirement, suggests Scott Hanson, a financial planner at Hanson McClain in Sacramento. If you want to retire in 25 years, for instance, you might use a return assumption of 8 percent for the first 15 years of savings, then reduce that rate to 6 percent or less in the final decade, he says.
''Here's the catch: most folks aren't saving enough using standard growth assumptions,'' he said. ''If they begin to use lower growth assumptions in order to ensure their retirement, they'll fall further behind and become even more discouraged.''
But simply going through these exercises may help the reality sink in. At the very least, it will show how imprecise even the most sophisticated projections may be.
''The actual date I get to check out with my target sum to retirement is much more uncertain than we give it credit to be,'' Mr. Kitces said. ''It's more like 40 years, plus or minus five to 10 years. If you want more certainty, you can have it, but you have to save more and take less risk.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Saving for Retirement, the Homestretch Matters: How the market performs during the last years of 401(k) savings can have a considerable impact on the final retirement nest egg. These charts assume a starting salary of $40,000 that grows by 3 percent a year and a savings rate of 8 percent. (Source: Michael Kitces, Nerd's Eye View, www.Kitces.com/blog)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); BABY BOOMERS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



554 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Data Shows Less Buying Of U.S. Debt By China

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
FOR eight years after the United States resumed running large budget deficits in 2002, China was the largest lender, buying a fifth of the new Treasury securities sold during that span -- an expenditure of more than $900 billion. During 2006, China financed more than half the American deficit. When the financial crisis struck hardest, China spent more than $100 billion on Treasuries over the two-month period of September and October 2008. 
But over the last year, China has been a net seller of Treasury securities, according to figures released this week by the American government. If that is true, it would be extraordinary, considering the size of the bilateral trade deficit, and there has been speculation that China has been purchasing Treasuries through accounts in other countries.
The Treasury Department estimated that China reduced its holdings of Treasuries by nearly $11 billion in November alone. For the 12 months through November, as the accompanying charts indicate, China reduced its holdings of Treasuries by more than $36 billion.
The Treasury issues separate estimates for China and Hong Kong, but they are combined for purposes of the charts and this article.
The Treasury figures indicate that over the eight years from the beginning of 2002 through the end of 2009, the total amount of United States government debt outstanding -- not counting securities owned by other agencies of the American government, like the Federal Reserve and the Social Security Administration -- rose by $4.4 trillion, to $9.3 trillion.
Of that, China provided about a fifth and other foreign countries provided two-fifths. The remaining 40 percent was purchased by Americans, although for a time in the middle of the decade, Americans were selling Treasuries even though the government was stepping up its borrowing.
For the first 11 months of 2010, American banks, institutions and individuals bought about three-fifths of the $1.5 trillion of additional Treasury debt, while China sold some and other foreign jurisdictions bought the rest.
The figures are estimates, and include both private and government transactions.
The charts show the cumulative 12-month changes in holdings of Treasuries for three classes of investors -- China, the rest of the world and Americans. The American figures exclude purchases by the Fed and other government agencies.
It is not easy to see how the Chinese government managed to keep its currency from rising more rapidly against the dollar if it did not continue buying Treasuries in 2010, and there has been speculation that it shifted purchases to accounts managed by British money managers.
If so, such purchases would show up as British purchases. As it turns out, Britain is estimated to have been the largest purchaser of Treasuries over the 12-month period, adding $356 billion to its holdings. That made it by far the largest buyer, followed by Japan. The only other major seller during the period was Russia, according to the government estimates.
If China has been buying through money managers, it may be easier at some point for it to begin selling Treasuries through the British channel without others understanding where the selling pressure is coming from.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Who Buys U.S. Debt?: Net purchases of Treasury securities: 12 months through month shown (Source: U.S. Treasury, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CURRENCIES (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



555 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: A Session, Like the Week, Ends Mixed on Wall Street

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose Friday, lifted by strong earnings from General Electric and ending a two-day losing skid for the indexes.
The Nasdaq was dragged lower by Google, ending a week that showed investors pulling back from outperforming technology shares.
Shares of General Electric, considered a bellwether for the economy and corporate America, rose 7.1 percent, to $19.74 and hit their highest intraday level since November 2008. The stock, the leading gainer in the Dow, also scored its biggest daily percentage jump since March 2009. 
G.E. reported stronger-than-expected earnings, helped by the recovery of its finance arm and a rise in revenue at its industrial units, including a sharp pickup in sales of locomotives.
''Look at the two stocks, where they've been and where they are,'' Doreen Mogavero, chief executive of Mogavero, Lee & Company in New York, said, speaking of G.E. and Google. ''G.E. has been under a tremendous amount of pressure before all this started. Google has acted very well throughout, so there may be a little bit more room for growth in G.E., might be the thought.''
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 49.04 points, or 0.41 percent, to end at 11,871.84. The S.& P. 500 added 3.09 points, or 0.24 percent, to 1,283.35. The Nasdaq shed 14.75 points, or 0.55 percent, to 2,689.54.
For the week, the Dow rose 0.7 percent, the S.& P. lost 0.8 percent and the Nasdaq dropped 2.4 percent.
Even with Friday's advance, the S.& P. ended a seven-week streak of gains. But the Dow managed its eighth consecutive weekly gain, its longest streak since the March through April run in 2010, in which the index hit a high that stood for six months.
The S.& P. 500 is up 8.7 percent since the start of December, but the index lost more than 1 percent over the last two days. Many technical and other analysts see the up trend continuing through at least the first half of the year, but some have forecast a pullback for the near term.
Google shares were down 2.4 percent at $611.83 after hitting an intraday high of $641.73 as confidence wavered that its co-founder Larry Page would rejuvenate the company in his new position as chief executive.
Late Thursday, Google reported earnings that beat Wall Street's expectations.
The action in Google shares is ''not so much Google earnings, but a factor of the market itself,'' said Robert Francello, head of equity trading at Apex Capital in San Francisco. ''We had such a massive run in the end of December and early this month, we might be seeing selling into good earnings,'' he said.
Tempering some of the earnings optimism were disappointing results from Bank of America.
Bank of America shares fell 2 percent to $14.25 after it reported a second straight quarterly loss, driven by a $2 billion write-down in its mortgage business.
Those results follow disappointing ones earlier this week from Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo.
In currency markets, the euro hit a two-month high above $1.36 on hopes the euro zone will find a durable solution for its debt crisis.
Interest rates were lower.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note was up 11/32, to 93 17/32, and the yield slipped to 3.40 percent from 3.45 percent late Thursday.
In commodity markets, the weaker dollar drove copper and oil prices higher while strong export demand for wheat sent the grain to nearly six-month highs.
In London, Brent crude futures rose more than $1 to close just above $97 a barrel as confidence in a European recovery grew.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (86%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: LARRY PAGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



556 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Pep Boys Is Said to Be Considering Selling Itself

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack is considering a sale of the company, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. Pep Boys, the auto-parts chain based in Philadelphia, has hired Bank of America to seek out potential buyers, said this person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the matter. It is unlikely that another company will acquire Pep Boys. 
Instead, a likely buyer would be a large private equity firm like Apollo Global Management or Bain Capital. A sale of Pep Boys would be the latest signal that corporate boards have confidence in executing mergers and acquisitions amid a revived credit market and a stable stock market. At the same time, private equity firms are awash with cash that they are looking to put to work. On Thursday, DealBook reported that Warner Music Group is on the auction block. J. Crew, the retail chain, announced a deal last year to be acquired by TPG, the private equity firm. Shares of Pep Boys traded higher Thursday after Bloomberg first reported the company was in play. In midday trading Friday, Pep Boys shares rose $2.42, or 19.6 percent, to $14.74. That gives the company a market value of about $775 million. Pep Boys was founded in 1921 by Emanuel ''Manny'' Rosenfeld, Maurice ''Moe'' Strauss, Moe Radavitz and Graham ''Jack'' Jackson with a single store in Philadelphia. Today it has more than 600 locations across the country that sell auto parts and provide repair services. The auto-parts retailing business is fiercely competitive, with the largest players being AutoZone, Advance Auto and O'Reilly Automotive. The recession has had a positive effect on the companies because consumers are keeping their cars longer, which has created more demand for parts and services.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); MERGERS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%)

COMPANY: PEP BOYS - MANNY MOE & JACK (97%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (57%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (57%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (56%); O'REILLY AUTOMOTIVE INC (53%); AUTOZONE INC (53%)

TICKER: PBY (NYSE) (97%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); APO (NYSE) (57%); ORLY (NASDAQ) (53%); AZO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441310 AUTOMOTIVE PARTS & ACCESSORIES STORES (97%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (97%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (97%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (56%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (53%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



557 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: An Infusion of Science Where the Arts Reign

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON, N.Y. -- Liza Batkin, a first-year student at Bard College, is a dancer whose academic interests run to philosophy and literature. But here she was in a laboratory on a snowy day in January -- while many of her peers across the country were still on winter break -- inserting a piece of DNA into bacteria with a micropipette.
At least she had company. In an intensive new program, she and every other freshman at Bard, a campus with a decidedly arty bent, have had to spend six hours a day over the past two and a half weeks learning about science through the prism of infectious disease. 
The 480 students have studied under two dozen scientists recruited from across the country for the program. Using lab equipment, computer modeling and classroom discussions, they have explored all aspects of disease, including detecting germs and managing pandemics.
''There are mixed opinions, from total apathy -- 'Why am I here? This isn't why I came to Bard' -- to total enthusiasm,'' Ms. Batkin said of her classmates. ''I decided to take it 100 percent seriously; otherwise I knew I wouldn't get anything out of it. I definitely find myself becoming more critical of the science articles I read.''
Called Citizen Science, the new program is the brainchild of Bard's president, Leon Botstein, who is himself an artist -- the music director and conductor of the American Symphony Orchestra. Dr. Botstein has accused colleges of shirking their responsibility to create a well-rounded citizenry.
''The most terrifying problem in American university education is the profound lack of scientific literacy for the people we give diplomas to who are not scientists or engineers,'' he said. ''The hidden Achilles' heel is that while we've found ways to educate scientists in the humanities, the reverse has never really happened. Everybody knows this, but nobody wants to do anything about it.''
Bard already has general-education requirements that include a semester of science, and the college has come up with some clever, though still rigorous, science courses for the nonmajor. There is one on color and light that appeals to artists, and another on acoustics for musicians.
But Dr. Botstein set out last year to do more. He consulted several scientists, including his brother, David Botstein, a renowned geneticist at Princeton University, on the notion of a brief, hands-on immersion that eventually became the Citizen Science program.
''I asked, 'Can you make a real dent in the understanding of the layperson in three weeks, intensively every day?' '' Dr. Botstein recalled. ''And to a person, they all said, 'Yes.' ''
Groups that promote American competitiveness have long warned that the United States is slipping in all areas of science. The National Academy of Sciences, in an update of its landmark 2005 report ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm,'' said last fall that the United States faced a future of economic decline if it failed to make significant investments in research in and teaching of science and mathematics.
The update, subtitled ''Rapidly Approaching Category 5,'' noted that 16 percent of American college students received undergraduate degrees in natural sciences or engineering in 2006, the most recent year for which data was available. That compared with 47 percent in China, 38 percent in South Korea and 27 percent in France. The original report called for the creation of 25,000 undergraduate scholarships a year in math, engineering and science. The updated report said Congress had taken some steps to implement that recommendation.
Jay B. Labov, a senior adviser for education and communication at the National Academy of Sciences and the National Research Council, said that most colleges required some science instruction, but that the course work did not always have a lab component.
''Being lectured at is just fine for some students, but data shows that they retain about 10 percent of that,'' Dr. Labov said. ''Bard and a number of other places are recognizing that if you engage students early in their careers, you can get them hooked on science.''
Still, the Bard sessions, which ended on Friday, featured several lectures, including one from David Botstein on ''the fruits of the genome sequences for society,'' and an open debate on vaccinations. Future programs may focus on climate change or energy.
To promote learning for learning's sake, students will receive neither course credits nor grades.
''This way they are not constantly worried that 'I'm not going to do well and that it will bring down my G.P.A.,' '' said Brooke Jude, an assistant professor of biology and the director of Citizen Science. ''I think we can motivate them for something other than an A.''
Lauren Cain, 19, of Memphis, who plans to major in film and music, approached the program somewhat grudgingly. ''I was pretty frustrated about losing two and a half weeks of my break,'' she said. ''Since I'm not a science person, I was a bit intimidated by the fact that we were going to be doing science, science, science.''
But she fell under the spell of her instructor, Stephanie B. Stockwell, a microbiologist from James Madison University, and found herself fascinated by the antimicrobial substances she handled.
While there is no final grade, there is a final project, and Ms. Batkin and six classmates came up with an idea that is pure Bard: a dance performance that illustrates how an influenza vaccine works. Students assumed the roles of the antigen, B cell, T cell and antibodies.
''We're using rubber bands and bubbles to show the B cell alerting the T cell that there's a foreign invader,'' Ms. Batkin said. ''I'm narrating the process, but I am also the antibody at the end.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Freshmen at Bard College spent part of their winter break in the laboratory, participating in a mandatory new science course. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MANSFIELD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); DANCERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); DNA (76%); BACTERIA (76%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (72%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (71%); MUSIC (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



558 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: After Tucson, a New Focus on Guns

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert is to be commended for highlighting the need for legislation to reduce the risk of further tragedies from handguns in this country (''Helpless in the Face of Madness,'' column, Jan. 15).
I spent more than 30 years in the Foreign Service. I recall being asked on more than one occasion how it could be that handguns in the United States are easier to obtain than a driver's license. Many of our overseas friends feel that we reap what we sow by our lax gun laws. 
I hear President Obama's plea for civility. From now on I will no longer refer to those who oppose gun control as ''gun nuts.'' I will refer to this cohort as my misguided brothers and sisters and hope that we can engage in a civil debate on the need to ban assault weapons.
Peter F. Spalding Washington, Jan. 15, 2011
To the Editor:
In ''How Many Deaths Are Enough?'' (column, Jan. 18), Bob Herbert recommends stricter licensing and registration of guns, more vigorous background checks and a ban on assault weapons. I agree.
And I have another suggestion: gun insurance. Mandatory liability insurance for gun owners sounds to me like an idea whose time has come. With this approach, we can respect what many interpret as a constitutional right to bear arms, while at the same time making those who possess and use weapons pay for the risk that they pose to the rest of us.
Caroline Herzenberg Chicago, Jan. 18, 2011
To the Editor:
I applaud Nicholas D. Kristof's proposal that guns should be regulated, just as we do to other potentially dangerous products (''Why Not Regulate Guns as Seriously as Toys?,'' column, Jan. 13).
It seems to me that the most logical extension of that idea would be to require a license, similar to a driver's license, for which you would have to take a test.
It would test the applicant's psychological soundness and anger management abilities. It seems to me that hunters in the National Rifle Association should not object to such a requirement.
After all, in Canada, where guns are also plentiful, a safety course is required before you purchase a gun.
Wendy Perron New York, Jan. 13, 2011
To the Editor:
Nicholas D. Kristof attacked my research in his Jan. 13 column. While conceding that ''concealed weapons didn't lead to the bloodbath that liberals had forecast,'' Mr. Kristof asserted that ''many studies have now debunked'' my finding that more guns lead to less crime.
In fact, the overwhelming majority of studies support my results. Among peer-reviewed studies in academic journals by criminologists and economists, 18 studies examining national data find that right-to-carry laws reduce violent crime, 10 indicate no discernible effect and none find a bad effect from the law. Among non-refereed studies, three find drops in crime and two say either no effect or possibly small increases in crime.
Mr. Kristof cites a public health professor's suggestions for one-gun-a-month sales limits, gun safes and further background checks, but I know of no academic criminologists or economists who have found that these laws reduce any type of violent crime. No gun ban has reduced murder rates. John R. Lott Jr. Alexandria, Va., Jan. 17, 2011
The writer is the author of ''More Guns, Less Crime.''
To the Editor:
The show must go on. The annual Shot Show in Las Vegas, that is. Is there no more jarring juxtaposition than the Jan. 20 news article ''Giffords Set for Transfer to Rehabilitation Center,'' with an accompanying photo of tributes to the congresswoman, above a photo of an array of weapons at the gun show (''In an Ocean of Firearms, Tucson Is Far Away,'' news article, Jan. 20)?
The most distressing aspect is that there is not even a pretense that the recent events in Tucson give the gun lovers and lobbyists pause for reflection. The party line is that the fault lies not in our guns but in our mental health care system.
When the best we have to hope for is the most limited of conversations on the size of the magazine, not the scope of the arsenal, it is clear that the only lesson learned from this tragedy is that there were few, if any, lessons learned.
Robert S. Nussbaum Fort Lee, N.J., Jan. 20, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUN CONTROL (92%); FIREARMS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); DRIVERS LICENSES (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



559 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: On West Side, Charter School Faces Hurdles

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
The guests sipped wine and nibbled sushi, guacamole and Gruyere -- lawyers, bankers, preschool teachers, managers and consultants of various kinds, bound by the anxious decision they must confront in the months ahead: where their 4-year-olds will go to school in the fall.
Downstairs, a flier by the doorman's desk had greeted them with a provocative question: ''Why should you have to spend college tuition on kindergarten?'' Back upstairs, in the stylish apartment on West 99th Street, Eva S. Moskowitz, a former City Council member who runs a network of charter schools in Harlem and the Bronx, delivered a tantalizing sales talk.
''Middle-class families need options too,'' she said.
But Ms. Moskowitz is trying to expand her chain into a whole new precinct of the city, the relatively well-off Upper West Side. And outside the parties she has organized to drum up interest, the reaction has been anything but warm from the stridently anticharter political establishment of the neighborhood. 
Opposition to the charter school, named Upper West Success Academy, has been as structured and relentless as the school's own marketing campaign, and it has already chased the school out of two proposed locations, on 105th and 109th Streets. The local community education council, which represents District 3 public school parents, has mobilized council members and state senators in fighting the charter school, which it contends will siphon middle- and upper-middle-class families from schools that desperately need them for stability.
Members of the teachers' union and New York Communities for Change, which replaced the state's chapter of the embattled organization Acorn, are often present at rallies and copied on e-mails debating the next steps in the battle. Even the local community board, which has no official say in the process, has chimed in. On Jan. 4, it voted 40 to 0 against the city's most recent plan, to house the charter school at the former Louis D. Brandeis High School on West 84th Street.
''In Harlem, there was some need and desire and interest in charter schools,'' Noah E. Gotbaum, president of the community education council, said in an interview. ''We don't need more options here. We have options. We have great schools.''
Ms. Moskowitz is known for an aggressive style, and perhaps no neighborhood spoils for a fight more than the Upper West Side. But the dispute also has its roots in population shifts that have crowded out parents from the most popular public schools there, and in a decision last year by lawmakers in Albany to more than double the number of charter schools allowed in the state, as a way to compete for federal Race to the Top money.
Charter schools have been expanding into middle-class areas around the country as states have eased restrictions on the schools and as the economy has put private schooling increasingly out of reach. In Baltimore and Cleveland, for instance, officials are using charter schools to lure white families into the city, or to keep them from leaving.
New York City already has more than 100 charter schools, mostly concentrated in areas like Harlem, the South Bronx and Brownsville, Brooklyn, where they have been so welcomed by poor parents that the annual lotteries for seats have become a kind of real-life theater.
City education officials say 75 more charters will open by the end of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's third term, in 2013, so it is inevitable they will begin to appear in places far beyond their traditional strongholds.
''If the presence of a charter school in a community will keep a family in the New York City public school system, a family that might have been able to afford private school or that might have considered moving to the suburbs because of the schools there, then we've done our job,'' Marc Sternberg, deputy chancellor of portfolio planning, said in an interview.
The Upper West Side is home to some of the best public elementary schools in the city, some of which are now so crowded they can no longer absorb all of the children who live in the zones that they serve.
But beyond those few highly regarded schools, most of the district's schools do not score well on tests and have been largely shunned by the middle- and upper-middle-class families in their zones, the demographic Ms. Moskowitz was playing to in the gathering on West 99th.
Charter schools, which are publicly financed but privately operated, have been praised as a bureaucracy-free alternative to low-performing regular schools, or derided as draining resources and good students from the schools that need them most.
Indeed, one of the arguments against Upper West Success Academy is that it could lure high-performing students away from struggling schools, making it harder to diversify and improve them. In September, the district received an $11 million federal grant to try to attract more white children to schools where minorities are the overwhelming majority.
There are also concerns over housing an elementary school in a building outfitted for and shared by much older students -- four new small high schools already are operating there -- and whether there is even space for them in a crowded district.
''Everyone wants their kids to get a good education, and everybody wants other people's kids to get a good education, but it's hard to have a conversation of where to fit a charter school in the Upper West Side because we have no room for it,'' said Michelle Ciulla-Lipkin, who is the president of a District 3 parents group. She has two children at Public School 199, one of the neighborhood's best elementary schools, and which had a waiting list for kindergarten this past year.
A document from the city's Education Department says the Brandeis building has more than enough room for the charter school and describes it as ''an additional choice option for families and students concerned they may not receive a seat in their zoned school for kindergarten.'' The city's Panel for Educational Policy, which like the Education Department is controlled by the mayor, will vote on the Brandeis placement on Feb. 1.
The school intends to open with 188 spots in kindergarten and first grade, eventually growing to about 480 students through the fifth grade. There are already 600 applicants for the fall, so seats will be distributed through a lottery. Priority will go to children zoned for District 3 schools that received a D or F on the student-performance portion of their report cards -- a criterion that applies to all but 4 of the district's 11 elementary schools. The highest number of applicants have come from the zone of Public School 75, one of the priority schools, followed by the P.S. 199 zone. The applications do not ask about race or ethnicity.
Ms. Moskowitz, a type-A-plus personality whose schools score well on standardized tests -- one was featured in the documentary ''Waiting for Superman'' -- said ''our vision is for a neighborhood school serving families on the Upper West Side.'' Posters promoting the school line bus stops along Amsterdam Avenue and Broadway, and some people say they have gotten more than 10 fliers in the mail, several proclaiming the charter school as ''the public-school solution to private-school tuition.''
''Why is it that people who can't afford it have to send their kids to a bad school, if that's what they're zoned for?'' said Bianca Strul, 35, who hosted the party at her apartment, in a building with a gym, playroom and private theater, and where the cost of apartments average $1,300 a square foot.
Ms. Strul, a freelance television producer, is zoned for Public School 163, which got a C in its report card and yet is so crowded that, for 10 years, two kindergarten classes have been held in trailers behind the school. Her daughter, Zoe, is 2 and will enter kindergarten in 2013.
For Jose Santiago, 44, an information technology director at Columbia University, the situation is more urgent. His son, Quinn, who is 4, is set to enter kindergarten in the fall, and Mr. Santiago said he did not want him to go to the school he is zoned for, Public School 165, where 69 percent of students failed English tests last year, placing the school in the bottom-25th percentile citywide.
''My wife and I researched it -- the test scores, the extra-curricular activities -- and it isn't really ideal,'' he said. ''We can't afford $30,000 a year for private school, so we're really nervous about what's going to happen. We're looking at all our options.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eva S. Moskowitz, who runs a network of charter schools, at the Harlem Success Academy.
 Ms. Moskowitz talked to a gathering on the Upper West Side about a proposed charter school. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); FAMILY (88%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); CITIES (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



560 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: For Investing Big Bonuses, Boring Is In

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
WALL STREET is about to be flush with bonus money. And while there will certainly be the highfliers who blow it on fast cars and other flashy toys, the reality is that most bankers will put their bonuses into rather mundane investments.
Even when times were good, their investments were usually split between boring and exotic, with little in between. But this year, the continued turmoil in the economy has shaken investors' confidence in the traditional barbell approach -- municipal bonds for the safe money and hedge funds and private equity for the long-term growth.
For one, municipal bonds are not the across-the-board sure thing they once were, as local governments struggle to pay their bills and repay their debt. And the bonds that do seem safe have very low yields. At the other end of the risk spectrum, hedge funds are not the darlings they once were for one big reason: investors are still not keen on complicated strategies that limit access to their money.
''The more sophisticated financial executives will still lock up their money, but they get to a point where doing that with 50 percent of their portfolio makes them uncomfortable,'' said Christopher Zander, a wealth adviser at Evercore Wealth Management. 
So what are these investors doing to get a higher return on their money? This is where the average investor may be surprised at how basic some of the top financiers' choices are.
THE HOUSEKEEPING In the depths of the recession, public outrage over Wall Street compensation, seen as encouraging short-term gains for employees over long-term profitability for firms, led to many bonuses being paid at least partly in restricted stock.
Now some portion of this stock bonus has vested. Since restricted stock is considered income on the day it vests, executives have to pay income tax regardless of whether they sell or hold onto the stock. But then they have to decide what to do next.
Mr. Zander encourages clients to sell the company stock and invest the proceeds in more diversified assets. One reason is that these financial services executives are about to receive more company stock as the latest round of bonuses is paid. And if the collapse of Lehman Brothers taught financiers anything, it is that you should probably not have the majority of your wealth tied to the stock of your company.
THE SAFE MONEY Bankers used to fill the safe bucket with tax-free municipal bonds. The bonds had a decent yield, but their real advantage was they were considered absolutely safe.
Now, the analyst Meredith Whitney, who made her name in part by correctly predicting that Citigroup was in financial trouble in 2007, has predicted that 100 municipal bond issuers will default this year. This has caused a stir and prompted investors to be more selective in how they chose bonds.
''If it used to be A-rated or better, it's now AA or maybe just AAA ratings,'' said Shawn Rubin, managing director at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. The bankers are ''good earners so they don't have to be heroic,'' he added, ''but they want to get some return on their money.''
Investors are not just looking at the quality of the bonds. They are also looking for bonds with a shorter duration -- usually under five years. This reflects the belief that when economic growth picks up, it will drive interest rates higher and eclipse today's safe returns.
The downside of this is that the yields on short-duration bonds are low, Mr. Zander said. The current yield on a five-year municipal bond is less than 2 percent, according to Bloomberg.
In this instance, leaving money in cash would seem to be the safest bet, and it is. The problem is that many financiers flush with bonuses have no more restraint than anyone else. ''We did see cash compensation going to cash and staying in cash for a period of time, but in Wall Street life, a lot of money goes to lifestyle expenses,'' said Stacey Haefele, chief executive of HNW, a strategic marketing consultant. ''In a 12- to 18-month period, that money starts going to lifestyle.''
That is great news for retailers but not for the long-term investment plan of the bankers themselves.
LONG-TERM INVESTMENT Wall Street investors are no longer as eager to hop into just any alternative investment. While some private equity and hedge funds still offer stellar returns, not as many investors are willing to tie up a large portion of their annual bonus in something that constrains access to their cash.
''We're not seeing as enthusiastic of a response for illiquid investments,'' said Todd M. Morgan, senior managing director at Bel Air Investment Advisors. ''If they were going to put $10 million to work, maybe $250,000 or $500,000 would go into an illiquid investment, but not 20 to 25 percent.''
Mr. Morgan said some of this was because of existing, illiquid investments people made with past bonuses. But if anything, financiers are investing their long-term money with more creativity.
Mr. Zander said some of his clients were putting money into a fund that lent directly to middle-market companies that had annual earnings of $10 million to $75 million. Clients still have to tie their money up for seven to 10 years, but they receive an annual payment of 8 to 10 percent of the companies' cash flow and an ultimate annual return of 12 to 15 percent.
''We understand the risks there,'' he said. ''The biggest risk is another credit crisis, but this fund did pretty well during the crisis.''
Another option is real estate investments. Mr. Rubin said some of his clients had bought three-bedroom, two-bathroom apartments in Brooklyn, based on the simple belief that supply was limited and demand from renters was growing.
''Two themes we took away from the recession were, one, everyone in America shouldn't have had a mortgage,'' he said. ''And two, it's going to be more acceptable to rent going forward because people might not be able to get a mortgage.''
THE NEW OLD THING More than picking and choosing among the municipal bonds and alternatives, investors this year are inclined to put their money into something downright basic: equities. Their advisers say the reason is simply that stocks seem undervalued.
Mr. Zander said he was advising clients to consider multinational companies that derived profits from emerging markets. But he said he was also advising clients to consider investing a part of their bonus in emerging-market and small-cap stocks through exchange-traded funds. This gives them the potential upside as well as daily liquidity.
In general, though, Mr. Morgan predicted that clients would invest in blue chips in a way that they had not in years. And he said most of that would come from new money that normally would have been spread throughout the asset allocation.
''As much as everyone is looking for new flavors and new things, there is a lot of old-school stuff that is still going on,'' Mr. Rubin said. He added that what interested many of his financial services clients right now were ''big, boring, dividend-paying stocks.''
They're certainly not as flashy as an exclusive hedge fund, and that just may be the point.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We're not seeing as enthusiastic of a response for illiquid investments,'' said Todd Morgan of Bel Air Investment Advisors in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); BOND ISSUES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); INCOME TAX (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: MEREDITH WHITNEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



561 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Union Membership in U.S. Fell to a 70-Year Low Last Year

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The number of American workers in unions declined sharply last year, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported on Friday, with the percentage slipping to 11.9 percent, the lowest rate in more than 70 years. 
The report found that the number of workers in unions fell by 612,000 last year to 14.7 million, an even larger decrease than the overall 417,000 decline in the total number of Americans working.
''It was a very tough year for unionized workers,'' said John Schmitt, a senior economist with the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington. ''We're seeing declines in the private sector, and we're seeing declines in the public sector.''
The number of private sector workers in unions fell by 339,000, to 7.1 million, while the number of public sector union members fell by 273,000, to 7.6 million.
The percentage of private sector workers in unions fell to 6.9 percent, down from 7.2 percent, the lowest rate for private sector workers in more than a century, labor historians said.
In 2009, for the first time in American history, government employees accounted for more than half the nation's union membership, but the percentage of government workers in unions fell to 36.2 percent last year, down from 37.4 percent the previous year.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics said that the overall unionization rate last year was down from 12.3 percent in 2009 and 20.1 percent in 1983, when there were 17.7 million union members. The peak unionization rate was 35 percent during the mid-1950s, after a surge in unionization during the Great Depression and after World War II.
Last year's drop in union membership stemmed partly from large-scale layoffs in several sectors with many union members, most notably construction, manufacturing, teaching and local government.
In one piece of good news for unions, the bureau said that median weekly earnings for union members -- $917 -- remained higher than the $717 in earnings for workers not in unions.
Barry T. Hirsch, a labor economist at Georgia State University, sees many reasons for the decline in unionization over the last few decades.
''Unionized companies obviously raise wages and benefits for their workers, and while they often raise productivity, typically they're at a cost disadvantage, and unionized companies haven't fared as well,'' he said. ''In addition, in an increasingly globalized, very fast-moving world, unionized companies may not be able to adjust as quickly.''
Another factor that has pushed down unionization, he said, is that companies have grown more ideologically opposed to unions and more aggressive about resisting organizing drives. In 2009, union membership fell by 771,000 largely because employment declined over all, but that decline followed a surprising spurt in union membership. Union ranks grew by a total of 739,000 the previous two years because of increased employment and some large, successful unionization drives.
According to the bureau, New York had the highest unionization rate of any state, at 24.2 percent, followed by Alaska, at 22.9 percent, and Hawaii, at 21.8 percent. North Carolina had the lowest rate, at 3.2 percent, with Arkansas and Georgia tied for second-lowest at 4 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); HISTORY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



562 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Mayors See No End to Hard Choices for Cities, Including Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Despite having one of the highest crime rates in the nation, Camden, N.J., laid off nearly half its police force this week after failing to win concessions from its unions. On the other side of the country, Vallejo, Calif., was filing a bankruptcy plan that proposed paying some creditors as little as a nickel or 20 cents on each dollar they are owed.
These are hard times for cities, and the mood was grim as more than 200 mayors gathered here this week for the winter meeting of the United States Conference of Mayors.
Many mayors have already raised taxes, cut services and laid off workers, even police and firefighters. Now they are girding themselves for more tough times, as falling home values are belatedly showing up in property tax assessments, and struggling states are threatening to cut aid to cities. 
''I came in full of idealism -- I was going to change my city,'' said Mayor Bill Finch of Bridgeport, Conn., who has laid off 160 workers. ''You get involved in government because you want to do more for the people, you want to show them that government can work and local government, by and large, really does work for the people -- directly, you can't hide. But then you say you've got to pay the same amount of taxes, and you're going to get less.''
Some mayors said that they expected more cities, mostly smaller cities, to seek bankruptcy or possibly even default on their loans as the downturn grinds on, though municipal analysts see defaults as unlikely.
In interviews, mayors spoke about their efforts to keep their cities afloat by raising taxes, consolidating services, selling off city assets and shrinking their work forces.
Many of them, including Democrats who have been historically close to unions, said they were taking aim at public pensions, which they said were no longer affordable.
''That's not a Democrat or Republican issue,'' said Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, a Democrat who is supporting measures that would lower the cost of pensions for new police officers and firefighters and require employees to contribute toward the cost of their retirement health benefits. ''The fact is, our pensions aren't sustainable.''
Mr. Villaraigosa disputed a prediction made last year by one of his predecessors, Richard J. Riordan, that Los Angeles's pension woes would be likely to drive the city into bankruptcy. Saying ''there's no question you will see some cities that default,'' he insisted that Los Angeles would not be one of them.
''There is no scenario where we would ever be in the 'B' situation,'' he said. ''I don't even use that word, because we're going to make the tough decisions.''
The mayors descended on Washington amid great uncertainty over what the focus on deficit reduction by the new Republican majority in the House would mean for cities.
The jobs outlook is still bleak for many cities. An economic forecast prepared for the mayors' group projected that while hiring would pick up this year, 109 metropolitan areas would end the year with a 10 percent unemployment rate, or higher.
The forecast, prepared by IHS Global Insight, projected that 105 metropolitan areas would not return to their prerecession peaks for jobs until 2015; for 32 areas, including Toledo, Ohio, and Detroit, it would not happen until 2025.
So between the breakfasts and luncheons, the awards presentations and the tap water tasting contest, the mayors pressed their federal agenda here, meeting with President Obama and members of Congress and the administration.
They called for more transportation spending for cities and for preserving the Community Development Block Grant program, one of the few federal programs that sends money directly to cities without passing through statehouses.
In the interviews, they spoke of their uneasiness, and the hard steps they have already taken.
Philadelphia has raised its sales tax and property tax, trimmed 1,200 jobs, and joined a number of other cities in instituting ''rolling brownouts'' of fire stations, closing a few stations each day to save money. Mayor Michael A. Nutter of Philadelphia said that those ''brutal'' steps had helped stabilize the city's finances, but that there are still risks ahead.
''It's what I refer to as a triple threat,'' he said. ''I'm concerned about budget deficits at the state, I'm concerned about budget deficits at the federal government, and our local school district.'' The school district is separate from the city, but its woes could hurt the city.
When the housing bubble burst in Pembroke Pines, a city of 150,000 in Broward County, Fla., taxable property values plummeted, and the city responded by raising the tax rate and making a declaration of ''financial urgency,'' which allowed it to reopen its contracts.
Its mayor, Frank C. Ortis, said the city cut workers' salaries by 4 percent, privatized its buildings department, and ended the defined benefit pension plan for new nonuniformed hires.
Union officials decried the assault on public pensions, noting that the average pension is $19,000 a year, and that pension payments are usually only a small percentage of state and local budgets.
''There's no doubt that state and local governments are now under fiscal duress, but public service worker pensions are not to blame,'' said Lee Saunders, the secretary-treasurer of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
He said that many pension funds were troubled because officials had failed to make adequate contributions over the years. ''Employees should not pay the price when our elected leaders fail to lead,'' he said.
Many mayors are worried that their states will cut aid to cities. Mayor Jean Quan of Oakland, Calif., warned that Gov. Jerry Brown's plan to eliminate municipal redevelopment agencies would deal a terrible blow to her city. And Mayor Christopher B. Coleman of St. Paul said that while the city would have received $103 million in state aid last year if past trends had continued, it wound up getting only $47 million.
Mr. Coleman said that he had been forced to close a third of the city's recreation facilities in the five years he has been mayor, and that while his most recent budget had not raised taxes, it had been a struggle.
''Taxpayers don't want to keep seeing their tax bills go up,'' he said. ''But as unhappy as they are about that, try to close a library sometime.''
Walking into a lunch on Thursday, Mayor Donald L. Plusquellic, the long-serving mayor of Akron, Ohio, greeted a fellow mayor with a hug. ''It's no fun anymore!'' he told her. ''Things are tough!''
Mr. Plusquellic, who has revived Akron's downtown since taking office in 1987, has had to resort to layoffs of police officers and firefighters in the last two years.
''I want to say, let me go back to the world I lived in two or three years ago, where people would come in and say, hey, we need this new park, or this new recreation facility, and I could say, O.K., we'll just do that,'' he said. ''It's a different world now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayors outside the White House on Thursday included, from left, Mick Cornett of Oklahoma City, Michael A. Nutter of Philadelphia, Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles and Michael B. Coleman of Columbus, Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A11)
 Mayors watched from the White House as President Obama's helicopter took off on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CRIME RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HOME PRICES (69%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



563 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: The Loss Of A Good Man

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
It was like reading fiction. Scott Stossel, in his book, ''Sarge: The Life and Times of Sargent Shriver,'' described a harrowing World War II sea battle that erupted off Guadalcanal on the night of Nov. 14, 1942:
''The foremast was hit. Electrical fires erupted continuously, all around Shriver. Whole gun crews were killed by flying shells. The ship began to slow down, and more Japanese rounds ripped across the deck, killing an officer in the radar plotting room. Three rounds exploded in another battle station, killing a half dozen more men. Steam lines were severed, and the hot, hissing steam scalded numerous sailors. Ladders between decks got knocked out, making putting out fires and attending to the growing scores of wounded much more difficult. Shriver himself was wounded when metal shrapnel from an explosion lodged itself in his shoulder, a wound for which he was later to be awarded a Purple Heart.'' 
It was such a different time, an era when it was considered shameful for men to run and hide when their nation was at war. Now we send other people's children off to war willy-nilly, and the rest of us go shopping. (At least until someone steeped in the business philosophy of Neutron Jack Welch takes our jobs away.)
R. Sargent Shriver, one of America's great good men, died this week at the age of 95. He was best known as the brother-in-law of John F. Kennedy. Married for 56 years to Kennedy's sister, Eunice, who died in 2009, he was also the father of Maria Shriver, the former television personality who is married to Arnold Schwarzenegger. That Mr. Shriver was not better known for his own extraordinary accomplishments, and for his rock-solid commitment to the ideals that this nation ought to stand for, is not just unfortunate, but discouraging.
He was the founding director of the Peace Corps, the signature success of Kennedy's New Frontier. He founded Head Start, created the Job Corps and Legal Services for the Poor, and gave us Volunteers in Service to America, which was the domestic version of the Peace Corps. He served as president and chairman of the Special Olympics, which was founded by Eunice Shriver. Indefatigable and unrepentantly idealistic, Mr. Shriver may have directly affected more people in a positive way than any American since Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
He was the flip side of the cruelty and ugliness that has come to dominate so much of American public life. The U.S. has once again fallen into the hands of the forces who, rather than trying to help, would relieve the middle class and the poor of every last shred of economic security. Not only have millions been thrown out of work, but the squeeze is on to prevent them from getting the safety net assistance that might cushion the awful blow of joblessness.
Public services are being dismantled throughout the republic in the name of austerity -- school systems, libraries, police forces, transportation services, and so on. Any talk of raising taxes on the rich is verboten. Shared sacrifice? Not if you're wealthy.
Sargent Shriver had a different view of America -- warmer, richer and more humane. A young Bill Moyers, who joined Mr. Shriver at the Peace Corps and eventually became its deputy director, said a crucial component of the corps was Mr. Shriver's deep commitment to the idea of America ''as a social enterprise ... of caring and cooperative people.''
Here's an example: In 1964, as leader of the Office of Economic Opportunity in the Johnson administration, Mr. Shriver came across studies that showed connections between poor nutrition, lower I.Q. scores and arrested social and emotional development. He wondered whether early childhood intervention ''could have a beneficial effect on the children of poor people.'' Head Start followed in incredibly short order.
Mr. Shriver was the point man, the driving force of Lyndon Johnson's war on poverty. Between 1964 and 1968, nearly one of every three poor Americans left the poverty rolls, the largest drop in a four-year period ever recorded. Mr. Shriver's idealism was not of the dreamy sort. It was geared toward concrete results.
He was also a fighter for the rights and dignity of black people and other ethnic minorities. It was Mr. Shriver who suggested that John Kennedy, during his campaign for the presidency, make a phone call to Coretta Scott King, expressing his concern and offering assistance at a time when her husband, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., had been sentenced to a four-month prison term at hard labor for a bogus traffic-related arrest in Georgia.
Real courage, idealism, a commitment to service and a willingness to sacrifice -- Sargent Shriver had all of that and more. In an interview several years ago, he told me, ''We made an effort during that time to find out what was true, and what was needed by way of improvement.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGAL AID (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); OLYMPICS (50%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (50%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



564 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: In Shake-Up, Universal Music Makes Management Changes

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
A month after Universal Music Group hired away a top executive from Sony Music Entertainment, its chief rival, the company is making several changes in senior management positions and cutting about 60 lower-level jobs. 
The moves begin what is expected to be a series of staffing changes in coming weeks that could reshape the lines of power at the world's largest record company.
Universal has hired Larry Jackson, a former A&R (or artist and repertory) representative at Sony as executive vice president of Interscope Geffen A&M, a family of labels whose artists include U2, Eminem and Lady Gaga. Mr. Jackson, 30, who started his career in radio as a teenager in San Francisco, was hired by the music mogul Clive Davis of J Records in 2000, and he has since worked with Jennifer Hudson, Alicia Keys and Britney Spears, among others.
In October Mr. Jackson left his position as executive vice president for A&R at Sony's RCA Music Group after a falling-out with Barry Weiss, the RCA chief executive who last month was signed by Universal to a top job that has not been specified. Mr. Weiss is to start that job after his contract with Sony ends in April.
At Interscope, Mr. Jackson will work under Jimmy Iovine, Interscope's chairman, who recently took on an additional public role as an in-house talent coach on Fox's ''American Idol.'' Another top Universal manager, Ron Fair, who is associated with acts like Black Eyed Peas and the Pussycat Dolls, is expected to leave his post as chairman of Geffen Records in coming months and move into a new position on ''American Idol.'' Last year that show signed a distribution deal with Universal, ending a long association with Sony.
And in one of Universal's most closely watched staff changes, Antonio Reid, chairman of the Island Def Jam Music Group -- another cluster of labels, whose acts include Kanye West, Justin Bieber and Rihanna -- has declined an offer to run a new boutique label for the company, according to several people with knowledge of the negotiations who were not authorized to speak.
Mr. Reid is said to have more than a year left on his contract with Island Def Jam, but it was unclear whether he would seek an early release.
On Jan. 1 Lucian Grainge became the chief executive of Universal Music Group, taking over from its longtime leader, Doug Morris. There has been wide speculation in the industry about whether Mr. Morris, now Universal's chairman, would take over the top management job at Sony Music, but neither company would comment about those rumors. His current contract with Universal runs through the end of 2011.
In the midst of all its high-level executive changes, Universal is also trimming 60 administrative and technical jobs as part of broad cost-cutting measures.
''The current economic climate dictates that we continue to look for more efficient ways to run our business,'' a Universal spokesman, Peter LoFrumento, said in a statement confirming the layoffs. ''So we are taking steps to reduce costs while increasing our creative investment in a number of new areas and new businesses.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (77%); RECORD INDUSTRY (76%)

COMPANY: SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (94%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (85%); ISLAND DEF JAM MUSIC GROUP (81%); RCA MUSIC GROUP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (94%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (94%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (81%)

PERSON: JUSTIN BIEBER (79%); LADY GAGA (58%); BRITNEY SPEARS (58%); DOUG MORRIS (58%); KANYE WEST (58%); ALICIA KEYS (58%); JIMMY IOVINE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



565 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: China and U.S. Businesses See Gains in Deeper Ties

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- American corporate leaders took away from China's president this week a partly comforting, partly maddening view on which both sides could agree: like it or not, they will increasingly depend on each other.
Referring to the largest American corporations, China's president, Hu Jintao, told executives on Thursday that China was in many cases the ''biggest source of profits in their global operations,'' and that 70 percent of American companies doing business there ''remained profitable'' even amid the global economic downturn.
The executives' prevailing view was summed up by Muhtar Kent, the chief executive of Coca-Cola, who said: ''In the years ahead, we will become more, not less, dependent on each other for our own economic success.'' 
Two days of events involving the leaders of America's largest corporations and the delegation accompanying Mr. Hu reflected how much circumstances have changed since his last visit to Washington, in 2006.
Then, the housing boom driven by American consumer debt had not yet peaked. The value of China's currency was not a potent flashpoint, nor were anxieties about intellectual property theft and barriers to market entry.
Now, amid a halting recovery, ''this is the first time we're really looking at China to hit the gas and get the world out of the ditch,'' said Richard A. Gephardt, the lobbyist and a former House majority leader, one of many former top officials who attended the luncheon, organized by the U.S.-China Business Council and the National Committee on United States-China Relations.
In his speech, Mr. Hu did not directly mention the companies' biggest complaints about trade barriers, discrimination against imports and technology theft. ''He's not addressing their specific problems, he's addressing the overall tenor,'' said Charles W. Freeman III, a China scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
''The only people that lobby for them here is the business community, and if they lose the business community they lose the power they have in Washington, to the extent they have it,'' he added. ''They realize they need to get these guys on their side.''
Or as Vin Weber, a Republican lobbyist and former congressman from Minnesota, put it: ''This is his audience in America, not the human rights or anti-Communist crowd.''
The luncheon drew a crowd of prominent political and corporate leaders, including Henry A. Kissinger, the former national security adviser and secretary of state who helped normalize relations with China in 1972.
Mr. Kissinger introduced Mr. Hu by saying, ''We can call this summit a success -- not because it resolved every problem, but because it has shown the way by which problems can and will be solved.''
Mr. Hu met Wednesday with Mr. Kent and the chief executives of Microsoft, Goldman Sachs, Motorola, Boeing, Intel, General Electric and other large corporations. The luncheon on Thursday was an even broader gathering, with representatives of scores of companies as well as foreign policy and trade experts.
Robert S. Nichols, president of the Financial Services Forum, which represents the biggest Wall Street institutions, said Mr. Hu's visit was ''more formal, more deep, more robust'' than his previous visit, in 2006, with President George W. Bush.
Despite a number of trade-related announcements this week -- including the purchase of 200 Boeing airplanes valued at $19 billion -- the expectations for substantial policy shifts by the Chinese were low.
Calman J. Cohen, president of the Emergency Committee for American Trade, a business group that supports trade expansion, called Mr. Hu's speech ''very diplomatic,'' but added: ''I do not believe it broke, in any way, new ground. The question ahead is what deeds will follow the good words.''
Still, Mr. Hu's emphasis on a ''win-win strategy of opening up'' China's economy resonated with people like Mr. Gephardt, who is also a director of the Ford Motor Company. ''More and more Americans are better understanding that we are truly in a world economy, and that the largest other player in that economy is China,'' he said.
While acknowledging continuing disagreements on human rights and strategic relations, Mr. Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, said: ''Frankly, there's no denying the singular focus of the government and people in China on economics as their dominant overwhelming goal.''
Mickey Kantor, who was the United States trade representative under President Bill Clinton, said increasing tensions was a necessary byproduct of greater interdependence. ''The closer we become, the more issues we will have -- we have more trading disputes with Canada than with anyone -- but that's O.K. because they're solvable,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); HOME PRICES (72%); LARCENY & THEFT (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (66%); PROPERTY CRIMES (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (57%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (79%); MUHTAR KENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



566 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Leader Gets Ride on Chicago's Big Shoulders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Jonathan Ansfield contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- President Hu has left the building.
After three days of rock-star treatment -- a glittering state dinner at the White House, a lunch with hundreds of American business and policy leaders who fairly gushed praise, a Thursday evening dinner here capped by a $1 million gift to Chinese students -- President Hu Jintao of China and an entourage of senior officials departed for home on Friday.
Perhaps nowhere was he celebrated more than in Chicago, which is working feverishly to establish itself as the go-to city for Chinese corporate offices and investment. Mayor Richard M. Daley has been to China four times in six years to promote his (and President Obama's) hometown. Chicago's public schools have enrolled 12,000 students in Mandarin classes. 
And one of Chicago's elite public schools, Walter Payton College Prep, is host to the Chinese government's most ardent effort at image-polishing -- a Confucius Institute, one of roughly 280 established worldwide. On Thursday, Mr. Hu dined on filet mignon with civic and business leaders and Mayor Daley, who announced a $1 million grant from the Margot and Tom Pritzker Family Foundation to bring promising Chinese designers and architects to study at the Art Institute of Chicago.
The following morning, Mr. Hu reciprocated. During a visit to Payton College Prep, he announced that his government would bring 20 of the school's faculty and students to China during this summer, prompting cheers from students -- all of whom are studying Mandarin and needed no translation to understand his remarks. Whether Chicago's courtship of Mr. Hu will pay off remains to be seen. But so far, it has not done badly. About 30 Chinese companies have offices in the city, officials say, and about 300 Chicago companies operate in China.
Translation Tweak
''President Hu realizes that -- and told the world -- that China has to do better.''
That was the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, on Thursday, a day after Mr. Hu said at a news conference with Mr. Obama that ''a lot still needs to be done in terms of human rights'' in China.
One would have to work hard, Mr. Gibbs added, to recall any Chinese leader ''making such a frank admission.''
True enough. But on closer inspection, it appeared that -- publicly, at least -- Mr. Hu actually conceded nothing. The problem begins with China's definition of human rights. Practically, the government defines them in terms of economic development: a 2008 statement to the United Nations, for example, mentioned poverty, famine, disease, war, climate change and food, and financial and oil crises as threats to human rights. Political rights went unmentioned.
And Mr. Hu's remarks that China had a long way to go? ''They say that all the time,'' said Susan Shirk, a professor at the University of California, San Diego.
Consider the 2009 edition of ''Progress in China's Human Rights,'' a high-level government document. ''Due to its inadequate and unbalanced development,'' the report says of China, ''there is still much room for improvement in its human rights conditions.''
Finally, Mr. Hu caught the ears of some American officials and China watchers when he said on Thursday that China accepted the ''universal value'' of human rights. That would signal a shift in official policy; up to now, the state media has condemned the notion that human rights are a universal value, dismissing it as a Western belief that is unsuited to China.
But in fact, it was Mr. Hu's translator, not the Chinese president, who uttered the words ''universal value.'' What Mr. Hu actually said, it was later discovered, was ''universal principle'' -- government boilerplate that underlies China's longstanding policies.
Piano Politics?
One of the highlights of the state dinner was a performance by Lang Lang, a Chinese pianist who has been a sensation in music circles. Mr. Lang played a duet with the American jazz pianist Herbie Hancock, then a haunting traditional Chinese melody called ''My Motherland.''
In China, it turns out, ''My Motherland'' is better known as the theme from the film ''Battle on Shangganling Mountain,'' a 1956 Chinese classic about a Korean War battle in which a vastly outnumbered band of Chinese soldiers held off American and United Nations forces for 42 days.
If, in retrospect, ''My Motherland'' might seem to be a regrettable choice for a state dinner, it clearly was unintentional. Mr. Lang, an American-trained pianist who divides his time between the United States and China, is an artist who melds American and Chinese cultures.
The Onion Weighs In
Not many American policymakers would disagree that the United States' growing indebtedness to China, which has financed American spending through its purchases of Treasury bonds, is an issue of concern. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton put it succinctly when, according to one of the WikiLeaks cables made public last year, she asked the Australian prime minister, ''How do you deal toughly with your banker?''
But leave it to The Onion, the satirical news outlet, to come up with a bright side to making your competitor rich. After the state dinner, the editors posted this flash on Twitter: ''> @TheOnion: BREAKING #NEWS: Chinese President Hu Jintao Pays For #StateDinner While President Obama in Bathroom''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hu Jintao of China at the United States Midwest Enterprises Exhibition in Woodridge, Ill., a Chicago suburb, on Friday. About 300 Chicago-area companies do business in China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK POLICH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); FAMINE (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



567 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: A Newly Cooperative China

 BODY:
After months of rancor, China is suddenly talking up cooperation on North Korea, the economy, and other difficult issues. There are several possible explanations for the change in tone -- and, we hope -- substance.
Beijing's bullying has alienated pretty much everyone out there, and China's leaders may have finally figured that out. The Obama administration's recent tough talk, coupled with President Obama's pomp-filled welcome this week of President Hu Jintao, were also clear reminders of the cost of alienating the United States and the benefits of getting along.
Mr. Hu appeared eager to make his American hosts happy, pledging to work to resolve differences over market access and the protection of intellectual property. He also came bearing gifts. The White House announced $45 billion worth of American export deals to China, which it said would support 235,000 jobs. Many of these deals had been reached as far back as three years ago, but Mr. Hu and Mr. Obama were eager to claim credit. 
It is too early to know how far China is really prepared to go, but Mr. Hu made several potentially significant concessions. He said the country would now audit government agencies' software purchases and publish their results in an attempt to end their widespread use of pirated software. And he signaled that his government is willing to temper the most controversial aspects of its ''indigenous innovation'' plan to favor domestic companies in government procurement deals.
The plan, as initially conceived, only allowed Chinese state entities to buy certain technology products if their patents were developed and registered in China, excluding foreign suppliers. According to the White House, China dropped the registration requirement and agreed government procurement would not be based ''on where the goods' or services' intellectual property is developed or maintained,'' and that ''there will be no discrimination against innovative products made by foreign suppliers operating in China.''
If these policies change, it could defuse some of the biggest sources of tension in the growing economic relations between China and the United States.
There's even a modicum of good news on China's artificially cheap currency, the renminbi. Beijing has made a lot of promises, but is still refusing to let the renminbi rise by much. But higher Chinese inflation means that -- in real terms -- it is appreciating at a rate of about 10 percent a year, which is helping American exports.
President Hu was also more accommodating than usual on North Korea and publicly acknowledged that ''a lot still needs to be done in China in terms of human rights.'' On both those issues, we'll take verify over trust. Mr. Hu could start by releasing Liu Xiaobo, the pro-democracy activist and Nobel Peace Prize winner.
At Washington's urging, China finally expressed concern over North Korea's recently unveiled uranium enrichment plant. It still has not denounced North Korea's torpedoing of a South Korean warship. As the North's main supplier of fuel and food, China may be the only country that can rein in Pyongyang. American officials said that, in private talks, Mr. Hu agreed to try -- but only after Mr. Obama warned that the United States may have to redeploy its military forces in Asia to protect itself from the North's belligerence.
It is far too early to assume that the Chinese government has decided to turn a new strategic leaf. But it is clearly taking a second look at things. Regular contact is essential. Cajoling and flattery may also help. The lesson of the last few months is that they need to be backed up with regular, firm pushes in the right direction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (88%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (88%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (87%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (74%); PATENTS (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



568 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: From China's Perspective, Relief After a Successful Trip

BYLINE: By IAN JOHNSON; Zhang Jing contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- As President Hu Jintao completed his groundbreaking trip to the United States, the sense of relief here over how well it went was almost palpable.
Unlike Mr. Hu's previous trip five years ago, when he was not accorded full honors and a series of gaffes marred the visit, this one seems to have gone exactly according to script -- which is how Beijing likes largely ceremonial events like state visits. There was a 21-gun salute, a gala dinner, and a live news conference that went about as well as could be expected for the press-shy Mr. Hu. Business deals were signed, a small child was hugged, and a major speech was delivered.
From China's point of view, the trip was intended to do two things. The first was to show Mr. Hu being accorded the respect he is due as head of a powerful country. That was the Washington part of the trip, with all of its pomp and circumstance. 
It was also meant to highlight China's soft power by having Mr. Hu visit Chicago and inspect a Chinese company -- to show that China is not just the world's factory but an investor and job creator itself overseas. Also on the agenda was a visit to a Confucius Institute, one of the country's new chain of cultural centers that Beijing is banking on to spread its influence in more subtle ways.
These goals contrasted with the more contentious concerns that Washington wanted to address, especially the tensions with North Korea, growing trade problems and the stubborn issue of human rights.
These issues could have made the trip much rockier than it was, especially since China today is more powerful than it was at the time of past visits.
''China and the United States both had some doubts about the other in 2010, but this trip has successfully cleared people's minds,'' said Yuan Peng of the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations in Beijing. ''The Chinese media lavished attention on this trip.''
The media's interest was on full display on Thursday, when the Communist Party's flagship newspaper, People's Daily, did not appear as usual in the morning. In years past that would have been an epochal event, perhaps signaling an internal struggle over the wording of an editorial or the placing of a picture, so carefully written and designed is the party mouthpiece.
Thursday's delay was less mysterious, but did reflect the visit's vital importance to Beijing. Leaders had held the presses until the end of the state dinner on Wednesday night to get in Mr. Hu's great moment. Given the 13-hour time difference between Washington and Beijing, that meant the Thursday paper went to press only late Thursday morning in Beijing. Other top party newspaper followed suit.
Most accounts were fairly factual, detailed and dull. One article in People's Daily was titled ''To Open a New Chapter in the Sino-U.S. Cooperative Partnership.'' When the American concerns were addressed in the media, the intention of the reports was to rebut those concerns by contending, for example, that China is a fair trader and doing its bit for the world economy by growing.
The one exception could have been human rights but it was deftly dodged. On Wednesday, two Western reporters asked Mr. Hu about human rights. But he was well-prepared and had a stock answer at hand: China values human rights but is a big, developing country and still needs to improve. The answer echoed the country's official position paper on human rights and was not given much prominence in China. The news conference was not broadcast live on Chinese television, but a video recording is available on major Chinese Web sites, like tudou.com.
''Hu's comments reflect his nonconfrontational political style,'' said Russell Leigh Moses, a Beijing-based political analyst. ''He's simply not going to get into a public debate with Obama on human rights, for he sees that as creating a poor atmosphere for other issues that Beijing deems more important to stabilizing the relationship.''
There are no major polls that track public opinion on matters like this, leaving observers to rely on extremely selective sources, like Internet chat rooms or casual chats with people on the street.
Most comments in chat rooms called the trip a success. One bellicose commentator in a military affairs chat room said the question about human rights was meant as a ''provocation'' to Mr. Hu because it was brought up only to embarrass him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



569 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Obama May Find Useless Regulations Are Scarcer Than Thought

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- There is a federal regulation that dictates that place names on new highway signs must be spelled with just one capital letter -- like This, not THIS.
Federal rules say that beef from a state-regulated slaughterhouse cannot be sold in other states, but bison from the same slaughterhouse can.
And as President Obama told the nation on Tuesday, one federal agency until recently listed saccharin, an artificial sweetener, as a form of toxic waste.
It has become an article of faith in Washington that the government's extensive rulebook is riddled with burdensome requirements that are unnecessary, contradictory or, to borrow a phrase from the president, ''just plain dumb.'' 
His administration, like its predecessors, has now promised a thorough weeding.
But specialists on both sides of the political aisle say that the president is wasting the government's time. They say there are few rules so dumb, duplicative or outdated that everyone can agree they serve no purpose. Rather, most regulations reviled by some are cherished by others, meaning that any effort to reduce regulation is a political process, not a question of housekeeping.
''The history of these kinds of efforts is that they don't matter very much,'' said Peter Van Doren, editor of Regulation magazine, a publication of the libertarian Cato Institute, which generally advocates for less regulation.
Gary Bass, executive director of OMB Watch, a nonprofit that generally advocates for more regulation, said the cost of the search was likely to outstrip the benefits.
''If saccharin is the most serious example the administration can come up with, then it does not justify doing these lookbacks,'' he said.
It is clear that the government's rulebook keeps getting longer. The amount of time businesses and individuals must spend answering questions from the government -- filing taxes, applying for permits, submitting reports -- has increased by more than 30 percent in the last decade, federal data show. The annual burden now amounts to more than one day per person.
The Obama administration has championed expansions of financial and health care regulation, and it has toughened a wide range of other rules.
The efforts are deeply controversial. House Republicans voted this week to repeal the health care law. Business groups have accused the administration of impeding job growth and dampening the economic recovery.
But those are not the rules the White House is pledging to prune. Instead, echoing a promise made by every president since Jimmy Carter, it is promising to find the regulations that are not controversial at all -- just plain dumb.
There is little reason to think this search will prove more fruitful than its predecessors.
Even the rules of the road signs have powerful friends. Advocates for senior citizens say that This is easier to read than THIS.
Those who complain about the prevalence of silly and outdated rules rarely cite specific examples. Several business groups asked to name specific candidates for the president's project, including the United States Chamber of Commerce, never called back.
The Business Roundtable, an association of chief executives of nearly 200 large American companies, cited a proposed expansion of protected habitats for the spotted owl under the Endangered Species Act.
The government ''is restricting activity on lands that may be suitable habitat for the spotted owl, irrespective of whether the owl is present in that region,'' the group said in an e-mail. ''This draft plan has the potential to shutter mills and destroy jobs as fiber supply from both federal and private lands is constrained.''
Of course, while spotted owl protections are opposed by the timber industry, they are supported by environmental groups.
There also are institutional obstacles to erasing regulations. When agencies are told to conduct reviews, they usually conclude that the current rules should be kept, according to a 2007 report by Government Accountability Office, an arm of Congress.
Even when agencies find that the cost of a given regulation does exceed the benefit, political considerations often keep the rules on the books. In 2007, Congress passed a law, named in honor of a 2-year-old child crushed as his father backed down the driveway, that effectively required the installation of rear-view video cameras in cars.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, charged with writing the new rules, found that the technology would save lives but -- assuming a human life was worth about $6.1 million, a figure used by the agency for its calculations -- that the cost would exceed the benefits by more than $1 billion.
Nonetheless, the agency proposed the requirement, noting that it was responding to the will of Congress and that ''there is a special solicitude for protection of children.'' Under the rule, automakers will be required to start installing cameras by 2014.
A federal law already requires agencies to review regulations that affect small businesses every 10 years. Congress also created an Office of Advocacy in the Small Business Administration as an ombudsman for the concerns of businesses. Since 2007, that office has asked businesses to nominate ''outdated and ineffective rules.'' It then produces a Top 10 list of rules that it presses other agencies to rewrite.
So far, only one highlighted rule has been changed. After four years of lobbying, the government agreed to end a practice of withholding 10 percent of architects' and engineers' fees for work on federal projects until the job was done.
Other industries still are waiting. Dry-cleaning machines, which emit hazardous gases, must be tested for compliance with the Clean Air Act. The machines have changed considerably since the rules were written in the 1980s, making it difficult to conduct the tests. The industry has long petitioned the E.P.A. to update the rules, so far without success. An E.P.A. spokesman declined to comment.
''They say they're working on it, but not with any great diligence,'' said Bill Fisher, chief executive of the Drycleaning and Laundry Institute, the industry's trade group.
Persuading the E.P.A. to lift saccharin from the list of toxins took seven years. The agency declared the sweetener a hazardous substance in 1980, after the Food and Drug Administration declared it a potential human carcinogen. Over time, science bent in the other direction, and in December 2000, President Clinton removed the requirement that saccharin-sweetened products carry a warning label.
In April 2003, the Calorie Control Council, an industry group representing makers and users of artificial sweeteners, petitioned the E.P.A. to remove saccharin from the list of hazardous substances. But not until April 2010 did the E.P.A. propose a revision. There were no objections and, in December, the change was made.
The result of this seven-year slog?
Lyn O'Brien Nabors, the president of the Calorie Control Council, said she did not think it would produce significant business savings or lower prices. ''Saccharin is a very inexpensive food ingredient,'' she said. ''I don't think it would have enough of an impact on the costs to make a difference.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Even typography rules for road signs have their supporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE BERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Saccharin, found in Sweet'N Low, was only recently delisted as a hazardous substance, years after scientists decided it wasn't. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIANE BONDAREFF/CUMBERLAND PACKING, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); SUGAR SUBSTITUTES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (57%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JIMMY CARTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



570 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Obama Names G.E. Chairman To Fiscal Panel

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and ANAHAD O'CONNOR; Christine Hauser contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
SCHENECTADY, N.Y. -- President Obama, sending another strong signal that he intends to make the White House more business-friendly, named a high-profile corporate executive on Friday as his chief outside economic adviser, continuing his efforts to show more focus on job creation and reclaim the political center.
Here in the birthplace of General Electric, Mr. Obama introduced the new appointee, Jeffrey R. Immelt, the company's chairman and chief executive officer, who will serve as chairman of his outside panel of economic advisers. Mr. Immelt succeeds Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, who is stepping down.
The selection of Mr. Immelt, who was at Mr. Obama's side during his trip to India last year, and again this week during the visit of President Hu Jintao of China, is the latest in a string of pro-business steps taken by the president. He has installed William M. Daley, a former JPMorgan Chase executive, as his chief of staff; is planning a major speech to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce next month; and just this week ordered federal agencies to review regulations with an eye toward eliminating some. 
Together, the moves amount to a carefully choreographed shift in strategy for the White House, both substantively and on the public relations front. Mr. Obama has started making the case that the United States has moved past economic crisis mode and is entering ''a new phase of our recovery,'' which demands an emphasis on job creation.
And with corporate profits healthy again, the president has begun engaging business leaders more on what it will take for them to start investing again in new plants and equipment and stepping up hiring.
As he moves into the second half of his term and lays the foundation for his 2012 re-election campaign, Mr. Obama is trying to frame the national conversation on the economy around this crisis-to-job-creation narrative. Republicans, who have spent their first weeks of the new Congress talking about repealing Mr. Obama's health care bill and cutting federal spending, have given the president an opening to do so.
The themes the president struck here, on competitiveness and the turning point in the economy, are expected to be at the heart of the State of the Union address he will deliver Tuesday.
''The past two years were about pulling our economy back from the brink,'' Mr. Obama said, standing against the backdrop of a huge generator in a well-lighted plant, with a giant American flag hanging from the ceiling.
''The next two years, our job now is putting our economy into overdrive.''
He went on, ''Our job is to do everything we can to ensure that businesses can take root and folks can find good jobs and America is leading the global competition that will determine our success in the 21st century.''
It is not clear how much substantive influence Mr. Immelt's new role will give him. Under Mr. Volcker, the panel met relatively infrequently, and Mr. Volcker at times appeared frustrated by a lack of access to the inner circles of White House decision-making.
The appointment of Mr. Immelt, who will retain his posts at G.E., is not without complications for Mr. Obama. G.E., one of the nation's largest companies, routinely has a wide variety of regulatory, trade, contracting and other issues before the federal government, on matters as varied as television mergers, military hardware and environmental cleanup.
During the 2008 financial crisis, the Federal Reserve provided $16.1 billion to General Electric by buying short-term corporate i.o.u.'s from the company at a time when the public market for such debt had nearly frozen. Having the chief executive of such a company advising the White House on job creation at a time when Mr. Obama is assuming a more deregulatory posture could further alienate liberals and be seen as undermining the White House's commitment to reducing the influence of lobbyists and special interests.
Another complicating factor is union uneasiness about outsourcing by G.E. Officials at the United Electrical Workers Union say the company has closed 29 plants in the United States and one in Canada in the past two years, eliminating more than 3,000 jobs.
''We understand the logic of asking someone like that to step up and play a leading role,'' said Damon Silvers, the policy director for the AFL-CIO. ''But there's a real tension there in making a G.E. executive a central figure thinking about U.S. jobs.''
But Gary Sheffer, a General Electric spokesman, said the company has also been shifting operations back to the United States, and has added 6,000 jobs in this country, for a net increase. For example, Mr. Sheffer said, G.E. is moving all of its refrigerator manufacturing business back to the United States. He said 60 percent of G.E.'s revenues come from outside the country.
At the same time, G.E.'s exports have roughly doubled in the past five years, which makes the company a good showcase for a president who is trying to promote trade and exports as a way to repair the battered economy. Exports were a major theme of the president's India trip and the state visit by President Hu; Mr. Immelt was among the business leaders who attended a high-level meeting with Mr. Hu, as well as the state dinner at the White House on Wednesday.
General Electric is benefiting from Mr. Obama's emphasis on exports. When the president was in Mumbai, he announced a string of deals involving American companies, including a $750 million order from Reliance Power Ltd., in Samalkot, India, for steam turbines manufactured by G.E. Those turbines will be made here in Schenectady, a point Mr. Obama drove home in his remarks.
''This plant is what that trip was all about,'' Mr. Obama said. ''That new business halfway around the world is going to help support more than 1,200 manufacturing jobs and more than 400 engineering jobs right here in this community, because of that sale.''
Mr. Immelt's White House job will be as chairman of the Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, a newly named panel that Mr. Obama is creating by executive order; the president said Friday that he intends to name additional members, including business and labor leaders and economists, ''in the coming days.''
The change in the council's name is intended to signify a shift in White House focus. It will be a reconfigured version of the board that Mr. Volcker led, the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, of which Mr. Immelt was a member.
That body, created by Mr. Obama when he took office in the thick of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, is set to expire Feb. 6.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at the G.E. plant in Schnectady, N.Y., where he named Jeffrey R. Immelt, right, as an economic adviser Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JEFFREY IMMELT (90%); HU JINTAO (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



571 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Bank to Buy Stake in U.S. Arm of Bank of East Asia

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China signed an agreement on Friday to obtain an 80 percent stake in the American arm of the Bank of East Asia, according to a person briefed on the agreement. The deal, if approved by regulators, would mean that for the first time, a state-owned Chinese bank would have a controlling stake in a United States financial institution. 
Although the deal had been in the works for several weeks, the final terms were struck as China's president, Hu Jintao, wrapped up a state visit to the United States focused on improving economic relations between the nations.
Federal Reserve officials and other government authorities were briefed on the proposed acquisition and raised no objections, the person with knowledge of the deal said. Still, regulators are expected to conduct a lengthy review, delaying the deal's completion until the end of 2011.
Barbara Hagenbaugh, a spokeswoman for the Federal Reserve, said the Fed had not received an application required for such an acquisition.
Federal regulators are expected to examine the Chinese bank's operations to ensure that its financial reporting, risk management and money-laundering controls meet United States standards. The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States may also weigh in, given the involvement of the Chinese government in the acquiring bank.
Although China's banks appeared to emerge from the global financial crisis on a strong footing, analysts in the West have raised questions for years about the true condition of many Chinese banks.
The deal, which could open the door for other Chinese banks to acquire deposit-taking institutions in the United States, was formalized in Chicago, at a ceremony arranged by commerce officials from both countries. Chinese banks are aggressively seeking to expand overseas, hoping that they can support Chinese companies abroad instead of losing them to American and European financial companies.
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China previously had one commercial bank office in New York but had no retail branches there. The deal is considered a cornerstone of its North American expansion plans, giving it access to American depositors. The deal could also allow American customers to open accounts containing Chinese currency.
Under the terms of the deal, I.C.B.C. will pay about $100 million for the 80 percent stake in the United States subsidiary of the Bank of East Asia, which is based in Hong Kong and has 13 branches in New York and California. Last year, I.C.B.C. bought a 70 percent stake in the Canadian operations of the Bank of East Asia, which is now known as the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (Canada).
Bank of China Mainland, another state-owned bank, is the only Chinese bank that operates retail branches in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANK BRANCHES (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (52%); MONEY LAUNDERING (52%)

COMPANY: INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (94%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF EAST ASIA LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES (55%)

TICKER: 1398 (HKSE) (94%); BK (NYSE) (92%); 0023 (HKSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



572 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Profit Rises 51%, Topping Forecasts

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
General Electric said on Friday that it closed the books on 2010 with strong earnings and a backlog of new orders that position the company for growth in 2011.
Fourth-quarter income rose 51 percent, to $4.5 billion, or 42 cents a share, from $3 billion, or 28 cents a share, a year earlier.
Earnings from continuing operations were $3.9 billion, or 36 cents a share, compared with $3 billion in the quarter a year ago. The results topped analysts' forecasts of 32 cents a share, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. Net income for the year was $11.6 billion, compared with $11 billion in 2009. 
''G.E. exits 2010 with significant momentum,'' the chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, said in a statement.
The company ''ended 2010 with three consecutive quarters of strong earnings growth,'' which was expected to continue in 2011 and 2012, he said.
Revenue rose 1 percent to $41.4 billion in the fourth quarter, exceeding analysts' estimated revenue of $38.9 billion. For the year, revenue was $150.2 billion, compared with $155.3 billion in 2009.
Stock in G.E., which is based in Fairfield, Conn., rose $1.31, or 7 percent, to $19.74 a share.
With its diverse portfolio of business and finance units, including the nation's largest nonbank financial institution, G.E.'s report presented a glimpse of expectations for the economy as it recovers from the downturn, and for the potential of global markets where the company is casting around for opportunities.
''It is like a very diversified little country,'' Richard Tortoriello, an equity analyst with Standard & Poor's, said in an interview before the release of the report.
G.E. increased its dividend twice in 2010, the report noted. In July, it rose to 12 cents a share from 10 cents. In December, it rose to 14 cents, the report said.
That was less than the 31 cents a share the company paid until February 2009, when, for the first time since the Great Depression, the board cut it to conserve cash.
In a conference call, Mr. Immelt said the transportation, health care and finance units would drive earnings in 2011.
Infrastructure orders in the fourth quarter were up 12 percent. ''This is the highest order intake since 2007,'' he said.
Orders in the fourth quarter were up 20 percent for equipment and 5 percent for services. Energy infrastructure orders expanded 4 percent. ''We feel very good about the backlog and how we are positioned,'' he said.
The total backlog increased to a record $175 billion at the end of the year, according to the report.
But some analysts said G.E. would have to address concerns about pricing. ''The pricing in orders was down about 1 percent, and that was something that needed to be watched,'' said Steven Winoker, an analyst at Bernstein Research, ''given excess capacity and increasing competition globally.''
He added: ''They put up a relatively good and clean quarter.''
The company said GE Capital reported net income of $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter, almost a billion more than a year ago, helped by lower loss rates.
Analysts and investors have tried to see if the company is deriving strength from industrial lines rather than from a recovery in the finance unit, which struggled in the collapse of the commercial real estate market and from defaulting consumers.
The conglomerate has been simplifying its portfolio and shedding noncore financial assets.
On Tuesday, a proposed deal to combine Comcast and NBC Universalwas approved by the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department. The decision clears the way for General Electric to sell Comcast a majority stake in the network.
Mr. Immelt said the company had expected the deal to close in the last quarter of 2010; now it is scheduled to close on Jan. 28.
''This delay resulted in a lower-than-expected tax rate in the fourth quarter and will lead to a higher tax rate in the first quarter,'' he said in the statement. ''We expect this will contribute to a significantly higher G.E. tax rate for full-year 2011.''
Mr. Tortoriello said the company should continue to benefit from emerging market strength and a modest recovery in consumer spending in the United States and Europe.
This week, G.E. announced that it was completing five agreements in aviation, energy and rail sectors that were expected to deliver more than $2 billion in revenue.
In November, during a visit to India with President Obama, Mr. Immelt said that G.E. had completed deals for power turbines and jet engines worth more than $1.4 billion and planned to double overall exports in five years.
G.E. also announced a series of investments in late 2010 that reflected its intentions to bolster businesses in crucial sectors, especially in the energy division. In October, it said it had agreed to buy Dresser, a privately held energy infrastructure and services company, for $3 billion.
In December, General Electric said that it would buy Wellstream Holdings, a British oilfield services company, for $1.3 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama toured a G.E. plant in Schenectady, N.Y., on Friday with Jeffrey Immelt of G.E. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); NEW ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); EQUITY RESEARCH (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011



573 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CORNER OFFICE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1929 words

HEADLINE: How to Shape the DNA of a Young Company

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
EDITORS' NOTE APPENDED
This interview with Jeremy Allaire, chairman and chief executive of Brightcove, an online video platform for Web sites, was conducted and condensed by Adam Bryant. The New York Times Company owns a small stake of less than five percent in Brightcove.
Q. What were your most important leadership lessons?
A. One of the most important influences early on was being educated in a Montessori setting. The Montessori ethos was very formative for me because it built into me a belief in self-direction, in independent thought, in peer collaboration, in responsibility.
Those even became tenets for me in terms of my management style -- a kind of laissez-faire approach to allowing people to self-direct and peer-collaborate to figure things out and get things done here. That attracts a certain kind of person. There are other people who can't thrive in that -- they need things spelled out, they need their five tasks. 
Another was that I took an interest in high school in extracurricular activities that were really about critical thought, analytical thought and leadership. I was on the debate team. I did model United Nations. So at a very young age I became very comfortable with speaking in a leadership capacity, conveying ideas, arguing for ideas and synthesizing information.
Q. What else?
A. In college, I had a mentor, a professor at Macalester College in political science named Chuck Green, who taught me a lot about how things actually get done in the world. It wasn't just, ''Let's read about politics or political theory.'' It was about getting things done. How do people actually solve problems? How do people collaborate?
We also had to sponsor a project and run the project, in an entrepreneurial capacity. Several of us decided we were going to build something called native.net, which was basically a network using the Internet to enable communication and collaboration among Native American tribes that had been siloed in the past. We had to raise money, set it up and run it.
Q. What about your parents?
A. Neither of my parents have really had anything to do with business. They've been social workers, they've run mental health institutions, they've run halfway houses, they've been writers. It's true of both my parents, but I'll call out my dad in particular on this -- he would reinvent his career every four or five years, and it was a really powerful thing. It was just, ''This is what I want to do and I'm going to do it.'' He believed that if you have something you're really passionate about, you can do it. That was always very inspiring to me.
Q.How do you hire?
A. I'm one of those people who believe that there are certain phases of building an institution when you really shape the DNA of the company. I hired 10 people early on who worked for me directly, who were setting the foundation of the company. You have to get that right, because they're going to be the people who hire the next 50 to 100 people. The die is cast, and now we're approaching 300 people. For that foundation, I had a very clear idea of what the DNA needed to be.
Q. Can you elaborate?
A. There are several core attributes that I really sought, and with each attribute there's some fine-grain subtlety underneath it as well.
The first attribute: I put a huge premium on intelligence, so I wanted people who were extremely bright. It doesn't mean they had a certain pedigree, but I was looking for bright people with whom I could have a high-bandwidth conversation, and who could synthesize really quickly and challenge my thinking.
The second was, I wanted this kind of interdisciplinary approach, and it relates to intelligence. How does this person think about the world as a whole? Are they able to think about multiple facets of things? Are they passionate about different dimensions of our business?
As an example, my head of engineering is just incredibly passionate about pricing strategy. I wanted people who have that quality. It wasn't about, ''Hey, what hobbies do you have?'' It was much more about whether they could step out of their area of expertise.
Q.And how do you test for that?
A. I'm in a unique position in that I have a view across every dimension of the business. And so you have conversations about different parts of the business and you see how quickly they can connect to it, parse it and ask good questions about it. If they ever say, ''Yeah, I don't really know much about that,'' that's a real problem.
Another attribute, which has been really important from a cultural perspective, is that I want people who are nice, who are genuinely good people, who have humility. If I had the opportunity to have someone who is the most brilliant person in the world but they were a prima donna, I wouldn't want them. We've had a couple people like that and they just kind of get ejected from the organization. They can't thrive, because they turn people off and they can't operate in this kind of environment.
The last piece is sort of basic, but it relates to this concept of running a meritocracy. I just want people with a really relentless work ethic, and a pursuit of excellence. You have to get a sense for that from what they've done in the past -- how have they pursued things, how passionate have they been about their work? I just want people who figure things out and will do whatever is necessary to get something done. I didn't want to create a culture of burn the midnight oil, and sleep in cots. That was not the intention. It's just a really, really great work ethic.
Q.How has the culture evolved as your company has grown? How do you maintain that original DNA, as you call it?
A. It's a huge challenge. One point is that you always need to have everyone feel like they're on some broader mission. In the early stages, the mission is: Are we going to survive? Is there a product? Does it work? Is anyone going to want it? Is there a market? They're like existential questions for a business, but I think those core mission tenets remain important through that growth stage. It's something that people can attach themselves to, so people aren't just coming into a job. So I've tried to really provide that narrative over and over, even as the milestones just keep changing.
The other thing is to hold onto that feeling of being a start-up, and it actually relates very deeply to how you go to the next phase of growth. Companies that figure out how to really become significant in scale reinvent themselves and create completely new things. Just as an example, a little over a year ago, we created a start-up inside the company to create new products. That was so galvanizing and so energizing, and it kind of cascaded across the company. People were saying, ''This isn't the kind of same old, same old -- we're reinventing ourselves.''
Q. Are there other things you do to maintain that start-up feel?
A. There's the core communications piece. In the last year, we grew to a size where I was feeling kind of out of touch with everybody, and that felt a little bit scary. We went from 180 people to almost 280 in less than a year, so that's a lot of change.
I actually was inspired by one of the rituals the founders of Google established -- every Friday they would invite anyone in the company on a worldwide basis to join a town hall to just talk about anything that's happening in the company. So every Friday at 10 a.m., we tell people, you've got an hour and we're going to talk about anything. Everything is on the table, and we'll bring some topics, too. It is completely open book, we could talk about anything, and people can ask any hard question. Not everyone shows up, because people have a lot going on. But it just creates this sense for people that they've got access to anything that's going on in the company strategically. It's a really helpful thing.
Q. What about other big influences?
A. Another was David Orfao, who was a seasoned software industry executive who helped build and scale five companies from a start-up period through a public offering. He taught me quite a bit. He's able to calmly step back and consider everything. His management style was to read people's emotions, to go into a room and just constantly and quietly listen and read people's energy, and then figure out from that what the real problems were and who needed to solve them, because he understood everyone's capabilities.
He was also exceptional at helping people think about their careers -- constantly asking, ''What are you trying to do? Where are you trying to get to? How are we going to get you there?'' -- and making sure the company is helping you move in that direction.
Q.And you do that yourself now?
A. I do. ''What are you trying to do? Where are you trying to head?'' I'm constantly trying to help people on that front.
Q. How do you handle people who have kind of unrealistic expectations?
A. I definitely have run into that over the years. You have to be fair and honest with people. It sort of gets to the points I made about humility and kindness. I might say, ''Hey, I want you to get to this next level, but let's focus on the realm of the possible today.''
Q.Can you talk about a time you faced adversity in your life?
A. I've had a lot of different experiences with adversity in the businesses that I've been involved in. In the company that I helped my brother start, we were basically out of money and couldn't get a bank loan. It was really, really stressful. We got lucky in that case, when someone stepped in and said, ''Here's some money.''
We went through the collapse of the Internet economy in my first company, and then later when it collapsed a second time in 2001. I think those economic challenges and adversity force you to make extremely difficult choices about people because you have to usually lay people off. You just can't hope that things will rapidly get better. You have to be conservative.
That's also led me to believe -- and I tell this constantly to my leaders in the company -- to always be thinking about which people are part of the bottom 10 percent. You have to be really diligent about not letting mediocrity grow, and to be constantly going through a cycle of regeneration with new people to really remain healthy.
Adversity also really forces you to become extremely clear about your core competency and what's extraneous. You have to be honest with yourself, or as a company, about initiatives or agendas that you're myopic about. Sometimes you just have to whack, whack, whack. A real weakness of some companies is myopic kind of behavior.
It's like, ''Well, if we give it another quarter, the market is going to change.'' You can nurse these things for so long and just drain value from a company so easily. It's a huge trap and you have to be kind of ruthless. New initiatives all look so promising, but they're either hitting or they're not.
This interview has been edited and condensed. A longer version is at nytimes.com / businessday. A collection of past interviews, searchable by topic, is at nytimes.com/corneroffice.nThis is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Editors' Note: January 30, 2011, Sunday
The Corner Office interview last Sunday featured Jeremy Allaire, chairman and chief executive of Brightcove, an online video platform for Web sites. After the column was published, editors learned that The New York Times Company owns a stake of less than 5 percent in Brightcove. Though the existence of the investment would not have affected the decision to publish the interview, it is the policy of The Times to include such information.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeremy Allaire, chairman and C.E.O. of Brightcove, an online video platform for Web sites, says the initial hires are key in building a business. In his case, he sought bright people ''with whom I could have a high-bandwidth conversation.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY EARL WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET VIDEO (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); WRITERS (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (67%); NATIVE AMERICANS (67%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (91%); BRIGHTCOVE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (91%); BCOV (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2011



574 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: A Necessary Clash of News and Advertising

BYLINE: By ARTHUR S. BRISBANE

 BODY:
Views from readers, responses from the staff and thoughts from Arthur S. Brisbane, the public editor.
I am writing to draw your attention to a recent two-page spread (''A Year Later, Haunted but Hopeful, Haiti Struggles Back,'' Jan. 4). As I glanced at the incredible front-page photograph of a young Haitian girl holding her prosthetic leg, I was struck by the glee on her face despite the loss of her limb in the earthquake.
Wanting to read the full article, I opened to Page A6 and was immediately dumbstruck by the juxtaposition of the continuation of the article next to a full-page color advertisement on Page A7 for ''Escape Winter at Atlantis'' -- from $399, wine, sushi, martinis, with care-free, debt-loving Americans splashing their way down a water slide.
The unfortunate placement of the color advertisement next to the black and white photos of the devastating personal stories of loss and survival following the earthquake in Haiti was disturbing and shocking. While I understand that The Times is under financial pressure and that such advertising is necessary, this demonstrates poor judgment and a lack of sensitivity, and suggests that nobody is looking at the big picture. 
TRICIA ZIMIC Maplewood, N.J.
Brian Fidelman, deputy director, news design: News and advertising are separate departments, on different floors and with different staffs. The content of advertising does not dictate how or where we present the news.
There are exceptions, of course. If an ad for Brand X is on the same page as a story about Brand X, we will make an effort to move one of them. But the certainty of that happening is dependent on a number of factors: the flow of news that day, the geometry of the page and the advertisement, and even the size of the paper (which has an impact on where color pages fall).
The determining factor in the story placement is where it best serves readers: Is a story in the section where it belongs? If it runs with a related story, is there room for both? Is there enough space for a photograph that goes with the story? In other words, while we make efforts, we're not always successful.
Arthur Brisbane: Ms. Zimic's letter exposes an awkward reality underlying the basic premise of a newspaper: that it aspires to truth-telling in its news coverage while selling advertising that aspires to put the best possible face on a service or product. To put it bluntly, the basic business proposition is a stark conflict of purposes.
For this reason, newspaper managements (including The Times's) recognize the need to keep the news department and advertising department separate, and even limit communication between the two. Although the effect, as in this case, can be extremely jarring, I believe that readers should take it as a good thing that the ad department and the news department appeared to be blissfully disinterested in each other's work product on that day.
Fairness and Links
Is it against Times policy to promote one business at the expense of another in its reporting? If it is, The Times should not link to Amazon whenever a book is mentioned online. (I have just finished reading a post by Stanley Fish in which he links to Amazon's page for Martha Nussbaum's new book. Paul Krugman also does this frequently on his blog.) By automatically linking to Amazon, The Times is favoring one retailer of books over all others. I own an independent bookstore, and you are sending business to our competition for no reason having to do with journalism.
These links are not purely informational, they are commercial; if you want purely informational links, they are available at publishers' Web sites. I have to believe that this is against Times policy, and I hope you will act to correct it.
MICHAEL HERRMANN Concord, N.H.
Philip B. Corbett, standards editor: The guidelines on links for reporters and editors suggest that for commercial products, it's best when possible to link either to the company (or publisher's) site, or to a comparison-shopping site where a reader has options. This avoids the problem of seeming to favor one merchant over another.
We do not routinely link to Amazon or any other seller from book reviews, etc.; our online ''best-seller'' lists have a ''buy'' button that offers several options.
Arthur Brisbane: My assistant, Joseph Burgess, and I have checked to see whether this link to Amazon was an aberration and found that a number of blogs on NYTimes.com at times have incorporated links to Amazon, including prominent blogs like Conscience of a Liberal, On the Ground, Economix and The Caucus. It's commendable that bloggers use links to enable readers to learn more about the subject at hand. But as the reader suggests, and as Times policy requires, it is important to avoid creating a commercial preference for Amazon. I hope The Times will vigilantly observe its policy in the future, as bookstores provide something -- a real-world browsing environment -- for which there is no online substitute.
Playing by Airline Rules
In the ''On the Road'' column of Dec. 28 (''Blizzard, and Inflexibility, Knock Out Air Travel''), Joe Sharkey interviews G. Bruce Hedlund, ''who, like all major airline pilots, cannot mention his airline by name in interviews.'' Mr. Sharkey does not suggest that he didn't know what it was, just that the interviewee could not ''mention'' it.
A very brief Internet search reveals that it is American Airlines. The same search reveals that Mr. Hedlund has spoken out publicly many times, and therefore is well known. What possible justification is there for letting him play peekaboo with his credentials? Is there a policy here, and is there any reason why a reader should not find this sort of thing extremely annoying?
KEN DORAN Madison, Wis.
Joe Sharkey, freelance business travel columnist: There are longtime restrictions on flight crews' naming their airlines in interviews that haven't been set up by the company P.R. No pilot or flight attendant I know will talk on the record unless it's agreed that they will not be identified by airline. They get in trouble for doing so. On the other hand, once they're assured they're not going to be called on the carpet by management, they can be pretty candid, as there are no restrictions on what they can say.
I regularly speak to lots of pilots and flight attendants, but when I want to quote one on the record, not naming the airline is always the condition they set. If the comment were specific to the airline-employer, I would not agree to this, but in generic air-travel comments I see no problem.
Arthur Brisbane: It's exasperating that the airline companies dictate such a policy; perhaps that's one reason there are so few lovable airlines. I would encourage The Times, and other news organizations, to push back against this.
The public editor serves as the readers' representative. His conclusions are his own. E-mail: public@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (77%); EARTHQUAKES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (55%) HAITI (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



575 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Enter the Teacher To the Dragon Of Martial Arts Films

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
NEARLY four decades after his death, Bruce Lee remains one of the most potent symbols of Hong Kong cinema's golden age. The original crossover martial artist, a local child star turned celebrated creator of Jeet Kune Do, the art of the intercepting fist, Lee made only a handful of films after his international breakthrough. (He died in 1973 at the age of 32.) But kung fu classics like ''Fist of Fury'' (1972) and ''Enter the Dragon'' (1973) are the stuff of countless homages and imitations, and Lee's life and career have been chronicled in dozens of books and films. While the Hong Kong martial arts drama has long been in decline, it's only fitting that the latest stirrings of a revival are connected to Lee: the most popular kung fu screen hero of the moment is none other than Lee's mentor, Ip Man. 
Born in the southern Chinese city Foshan, Ip Man (1893-1972) settled in Hong Kong after the Communist takeover of 1949 and devoted his life to the practice and popularization of the Wing Chun fighting style, known for its explosive, close-range strikes. Until recently his cinematic afterlife has been confined to brief appearances in films about his most famous student, but a growing wave of Ip Man movies has elevated him to a folk hero in his own right.
First came Wilson Yip's ''Ip Man'' (2008), a biopic set in the 1930s, before and during the Japanese occupation, with the action star Donnie Yen in the title role. (A big hit in Asia, it received a brief theatrical run in the United States last year.) Mr. Yen and Mr. Yip reteamed -- along with the illustrious fight choreographer Sammo Hung -- for ''Ip Man 2,'' which covers its hero's years in 1950s Hong Kong, as he contends with rival instructors and thuggish British colonialists. The top-grossing local film in Hong Kong last year, ''Ip Man 2,'' opens Friday in New York and Los Angeles.
Rushed into production on the heels of the first ''Ip Man,'' ''The Legend Is Born -- Ip Man,'' directed by Herman Yau, is a prequel of sorts, focused on a teenage Ip. The filmmakers behind ''Ip Man'' and ''Ip Man 2,'' in taking on bite-size portions of their protagonist's life, are leaving themselves open to a continuing franchise.
And Wong Kar-wai, perhaps the most revered and singular of Hong Kong auteurs, is finally shooting the Ip Man project that he has been developing for years. Titled ''The Grandmasters'' and featuring Mr. Wong's regular collaborator Tony Leung in the lead role, it remains, as tends to be the case with Mr. Wong, shrouded in secrecy. (The fights are being choreographed by Yuen Wo-ping, known for his work on the ''Matrix'' trilogy and ''Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.'')
Mr. Yen said in an e-mail interview that the films have sparked interest in Ip Man's biography and philosophy. ''People now see Ip Man as a legendary master of his time,'' Mr. Yen said, adding that the movies have done ''a good job promoting Wing Chun to the world.''
Many a kung fu film is predicated on a contrast of fighting techniques -- the saying ''Northern leg, southern fist'' broadly sums up the regional differences. To prepare for the role, Mr. Yen, who described himself as a mixed martial artist, lost 10 pounds and boned up on Wing Chun, a characteristic of which, he said, is ''conquering the unyielding with the yielding.''
He spent hours late into the night practicing with a wooden dummy. Character research was inseparable from mastery of the discipline. ''Using your bare fists with this traditional equipment is the best way to experience the character and his martial arts legacy,'' Mr. Yen said.
Less a flesh-and-blood character than an allegorical abstraction, Mr. Yen and Mr. Yip's Ip Man continues the long tradition of the kung fu master hero, exemplified by the much mythologized 19th-century physician and martial artist Wong Fei-hung (incarnated on screen by, among others, Jackie Chan and Jet Li). He also echoes the Bruce Lee persona in being an emblem of racial pride.
Born in San Francisco and raised in Hong Kong, Lee appeared on American television in the late '60s (on ''The Green Hornet'' and ''Batman''). But it was his Hong Kong productions of the early '70s that ignited his global superstardom. There was often a chauvinistic edge to Lee's self-appointed role of kung fu ambassador: his films were designed as showcases of his skill, and by extension, of the superiority of Chinese martial arts. (Still, he was hardly a purist, inventing his own camera-friendly style and often incorporating non-Chinese elements.) ''Fist of Fury,'' set in the early 20th century in the Shanghai International Settlement, pits Lee against a variety of colonialist adversaries; ''Return of the Dragon'' builds to a gladiatorial showdown with Chuck Norris in the Roman Colosseum.
Mr. Yen's Ip Man is likewise compelled to demonstrate the dominance of his technique, facing down northern interlopers in ''Ip Man'' and a rival master of the Hung Ga school (played by Mr. Hung) in ''Ip Man 2.'' The main villains are caricatured foreigners: a glowering Japanese general and karate expert in the first film and a barbaric British boxing champion in the second.
The Ip Man films speak to the tricky economics and politics of post-hand-over Hong Kong cinema. For many the return of the British colony to Chinese rule in 1997 brought down the curtain on what was once one of the world's scrappiest and most vibrant film industries.
The scholar David Bordwell points out in the updated edition of his landmark study ''Planet Hong Kong'' that the decline was already under way before 1997, thanks to a combination of factors that included piracy, a defection of talent, the iron grip of Hollywood and the ascendance of other Asian cinemas. The upshot: In the past decade Hong Kong cinema, an export business even in its prime, has grown more dependent on the financing power and large audiences of mainland China.
Li Cheuk-to, a film critic and the artistic director of the Hong Kong International Film Festival, had a twofold explanation for the nationalist bent of the Ip Man films, which are Hong Kong-China co-productions. ''On one hand it is an homage to, or an exploitation of, the Bruce Lee films,'' Mr. Li said by e-mail. ''On the other hand it is a calculated move to please the audience, especially the Chinese in the mainland market, where anti-Japanese and xenophobic sentiments are stronger than in Hong Kong.''
Mr. Yip, the director of the films, acknowledged that their patriotic tenor might partly account for their appeal. Ip Man, he said, ''survived a difficult period in his life, as did China, and still became one of the great masters in martial arts.''
But politics is ultimately secondary. As martial-arts throwdowns, the Ip Man movies live or die on the strength of their fight scenes, and the response from the kung fu cognoscenti has been mostly favorable. Mr. Li characterized the fights as a continuation of the ''hard-hitting, dynamic yet intricate style'' that Mr. Yip, Mr. Yen and Mr. Hung developed in their first collaboration, the crime thriller ''Kill Zone'' (2005).
In Hollywood brawls, digitally abetted staccato edits and shaky, off-center perspectives increasingly create a visceral impression of tumult at the expense of coherence (as in the Bourne and Batman movies). But even at their most kinetic the best Hong Kong movies generally ensure that a viewer is able to follow the action in an action sequence. Even in an age of computer-generated imagery, Mr. Li said, the priorities of Hong Kong genre cinema remain ''intricate action choreography and a shot breakdown that shows each movement clearly.''
This visual legibility is a point of honor for the martial arts performer, a confirmation of his bona fides. Bruce Lee was often filmed in shots that framed him head to toe, the better to show off his moves. ''New technologies should really only be used to enhance the visual quality, not to manipulate the entire fight choreography,'' Mr. Yen said. He noted with pride that an especially demanding scene in ''Ip Man 2,'' in which he and Mr. Hung square off on a teetering table surrounded by upturned benches, took eight days to film.
For the kung fun fan sheer physical ability remains the greatest special effect. ''To do an action as simple as standing on a wooden pole takes great skill,'' Mr. Yip said. ''No amount of technology can recreate that, even today.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sammo Hung, left, and Donnie Yen as the hero in ''Ip Man 2: Legend of the Grandmaster.'' (AR10)
 Donnie Yen, center, in ''Ip Man'' (2008), directed by Wilson Yip. The hero was a master of martial arts in real life. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILL GO USA/EVERETT COLLECTION)(AR18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARTIAL ARTS (93%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); FILM (89%); FILM GENRES (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); CHOREOGRAPHY (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); SOUTH CHINA (73%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (55%) HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (58%)

TITLE: Ip Man (Movie); Ip Man 2 (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



576 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2610 words

HEADLINE: Quarterback for a Team of 1,900

BYLINE: By SRIDHAR PAPPU

 BODY:
''WE are at war!'' DeMaurice Smith yelled.
Mr. Smith, the hard-charging executive director of the union that represents 1,900 N.F.L. players, was pacing in a conference room in downtown Washington. Sitting before him were nearly 20 professional players, all recently elected to represent their fellow athletes.
They listened as this former federal prosecutor and corporate lawyer called for them to be leaders for their union, the National Football League Players Association. They are facing the unthinkable: no professional football next year if the N.F.L. owners and players cannot reach a collective bargaining agreement by March 3. At this meeting last Tuesday morning, Mr. Smith, known as De, had the attention of the player reps. Although only 5 feet 9 inches tall -- diminutive by football standards -- he is powerful both in his build and in his ability to command a room. Thoroughly dapper, he took off his black-and-white pinstriped suit jacket -- with its pocket-square flair -- and weaved in and out among them, his voice ever rising.
''Nobody gets strong without fighting,'' Mr. Smith, 46, said to the players. ''Nobody stays strong without fighting. Nobody negotiates their way to strength. Nobody talks their way to a good deal. Nobody sits down and just has miraculous things happen.'' 
He will need his eloquence and toughness in the coming months. Talks with the league are at an impasse, though the union has pledged that its members will not strike. This leaves Mr. Smith with the task of standing against the owners, who appear ready to lock out their players, as he fights the owners' demands for more regular-season games and against the players' giving up 18 percent of the revenue -- $1 billion -- that the N.F.L. shares with them.
More than a month earlier, in slightly better spirits, Mr. Smith took the Acela train from Washington to an N.F.L.P.A. event in Philadelphia. Held at the Water Works Restaurant and Lounge near the Philadelphia Museum of Art, and paid for by the restaurant's owner, the gathering had all the gaudy fanfare that surrounds an N.F.L. stadium on a Sunday. As stiff winds blew off the Schuylkill River, fans stood outside, drinking around fire pits glowing in the darkness while they waited for barbecue. Inside, the staff wore Philadelphia Eagles jerseys as a man dressed like Captain Morgan, the face of the rum brand, hammed it up with a group of scantily clad women called ''Morganettes.''
The event was to be a show of fan support for the union. But it was really a chance for Mr. Smith to mingle with other labor leaders, whom he has actively courted since taking the job in 2009.
Eager to impress a few Teamsters from Local 384 near Philadelphia, wearing blue union jackets and drinking beer, Mr. Smith boasted: ''I'm having dinner with Jimmy. He's taught me a lot.'' Jimmy is James P. Hoffa, the longtime Teamsters union president and son of the labor leader who disappeared in 1975.
It was not posturing. For months now, Mr. Smith has sought the counsel of traditional labor powers, like Leo W. Gerard, the United Steelworkers president. Mr. Gerard said he was surprised because Gene Upshaw, the former head of the players' union, ''sat only a few seats away from me at the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and very, very rarely would he make any comments about forming alliances with any of the groups in the room.''
Mr. Smith says such relationships are important. ''The N.F.L. at every step has done everything to drive this union out of business,'' he said. ''So when we get in times of labor fights, you quickly look around to who your friends are, and organized labor has always been there for those who've gotten their fingers dirty and broken their nose doing their job. Disparity never enters the picture.''
STANDING in the crowd at the Waterworks event was Ellis Hobbs, a defensive back for the Eagles. On Nov. 21, while returning the second-half kickoff against the New York Giants, Mr. Hobbs suffered a helmet-to-helmet blow. He fell to the ground, unable to move for 10 minutes. He left the field on a stretcher, giving a thumbs-up to the fans, but his season had ended because of a neck injury. Now he was at the center of the restaurant as young girls and older men approached him, patting him on the shoulder, seeking his autograph, asking how he felt and telling him to take care of himself.
''It gets old,'' Mr. Hobbs said. ''But it could be worse. I'm up and walking and talking.''
In many ways, Mr. Hobbs's injury is at the center of the union's impasse with the league. Before the start of the season, the N.F.L. floated the idea of expanding the regular season to 18 games from the 16 played now. Having more games, of course, means more chances of both drastic injuries and routine bodily abuse inflicted on the players.
When the union and its players talk about concussions and traumatic injuries, it is not in terms of the frightening collisions that leave men like Mr. Hobbs motionless. Rather, they talk about the number of impact points, those moments when N.F.L. players move fast and aggressively to hit one another, whether in a game or practice. When it comes to many players' health, the best it will ever be is on the first day of training camp. Most regulars will play very little in preseason games, sparing their bodies for the punishing season ahead.
This year, according to the union, 352 players were placed on injured reserve, ending their seasons. While fans might revel in violent hits, there is only so much that an N.F.L. player can physically stand. Bone fractures, torn cartilage and tendinitis are standard in the N.F.L.
''Anytime a star player or the 53rd guy on the practice squad runs the risk of getting hurt, it's not good for the player, and it's not good for the game.'' said Kevin Mawae, the N.F.L.P.A. president and a former All-Pro center.
The league, headed by Commissioner Roger Goodell, says that more games would strengthen the N.F.L. brand. In theory, a normal N.F.L. season is 20 games -- including four preseason games that often don't stir much fan interest. First-string players often see little action in these summertime contests, as their backups (and the backups' backups) fight for spots on the roster. Near the end of even an exciting preseason game, it's not rare to see a listless, nearly empty stadium.
The league wants to turn two of those preseason contests into regular-season games. ''We would take two games that are low-quality, difficult to sell and meet high-resistance from your customer and change them into much more attractive, higher-value games that would benefit the fans and financially benefit players,'' said Jeff Pash, the N.F.L.'s executive vice president and legal counsel. ''You could have more than a once-a-year game in London, for example. You could start going into foreign markets. And who knows, maybe you'd even have teams in these locations, which would mean more jobs, more revenue, more growth.''
Mr. Smith says he is in favor of growth as long as the players' interests are protected. While owners have financial risks, he says, the players risk much more, including their health.
He cited the suits filed by the N.F.L. against former players over disputes about worker compensation claims.
Many players leave football as uninsured men, unable to find coverage for pre-existing conditions they suffered playing the game. For those who do meet minimum qualifications -- being on a team for three consecutive games for three consecutive years -- the league's plan provides only five years of post-career health benefits.
''The economics of football remain pretty basic when it comes to issue of the careers of players,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Fundamentally the business model in football is, players trade what they can do physically and mentally for compensation.''
WITHIN days of being approached for the union job, Mr. Smith turned to the writings of Marvin Miller, the labor economist who moved from the United Steelworkers union in the late 1960s to lead the Major League Baseball Players Association. As an outsider schooled in organized labor, not baseball, Mr. Miller spent the early days of his tenure explaining their rights, or lack of them, to the players in a system that limited not only their salaries but where they could play.
After negotiating the first collective bargaining agreement for his union, Mr. Miller went on to lead it through several strikes and lockouts and forced the owners to accept a system allowing for free agency, which lets players move from one team to another once they've accumulated six years of major-league service. He transformed the players association not only into the most powerful sports union, but arguably into America's most powerful union, period.
''When it comes to this job, he remains my idol,'' Mr. Smith said. ''He walks into a union that did not have a significant amount of information coming to the players, he had a very hostile reception from management, and what he brought to the players was the meat and potatoes of what organized labor unions do.''
But it is inevitable that Mr. Smith will instead be compared with Mr. Upshaw, the N.F.L.P.A. chief who died in 2008. He and Paul J. Tagliabue, the former N.F.L. commissioner, seemed to backslap their way from agreement to agreement. Their easy relationship over a quarter-century firmly entrenched the N.F.L. as the pre-eminent professional sport in America.
Everyone benefited. An average N.F.L. player today makes $1.7 million a season. According to Forbes, the average N.F.L. franchise is now worth $1.02 billion. Because of salary caps and revenue sharing of national TV broadcasts, a team's home market has proved irrelevant to its on-field success. The Green Bay Packers, tucked away in a minor media market, can compete with teams from New York and Chicago. In fact, the Packers battle the Bears in Chicago on Sunday for a spot in the Super Bowl.
But that period of N.F.L. peace has officially ended. In addition to fighting over shifting to 18 games, owners want $1 billion back from the players and a wage scale for first-year players.
The two sides can't even agree on the amount of revenue they are fighting over, much less how it is distributed. The league says it is splitting revenue 60-40 in favor of the players, just as Mr. Upshaw boasted about when the last contract was reached in March 2006. But for months, the union has said that its members get only about 50 percent of the estimated $9 billion the N.F.L. brings in annually, and that it wants more financial transparency.
The owners, meanwhile, also like to hammer home the income disparity between the average player's compensation and the $51,425 median annual household income of a typical N.F.L. fan. The union is quick to remind people that many owners are billionaires.
Mr. Smith, of course, defends the players' pay. ''Our players are fortunate to work in a business where they are compensated in ways unimaginable to other people their age,'' he said. But he makes a larger point: ''There is no free market in football. It's a monopoly. You either play in this league at the highest level or you can't play anywhere else.''
The league also contends that a lack of revenue in the current system has hindered teams' abilities to build, maintain and operate new stadiums. ''We have never said the N.F.L. is not a viable business,'' Mr. Pash said. ''We have never said the N.F.L. is a money-losing business. But it's no accident that no new stadium project has started since this agreement has taken place in 2006.''
In other words, owners say, the game is healthy but could be healthier for everyone.
To many N.F.L. watchers, the current gridlock seems unfathomable, and a potential lockout almost unreal.
''The game's popularity is at an all-time high and we've managed to not have a work stoppage all these years and I don't see why we would have one now,'' said Drew Rosenhaus, the boisterous N.F.L. super-agent who counts the equally outspoken wide receivers Terrell Owens and Chad Ochocinco among his clients. ''But I'm preparing all of my clients for the lockout and telling them to take it very seriously.''
MR. SMITH'S office is in Upshaw Place, the union's headquarters in Washington; he sits not far from a scuffed, scarred helmet that Mr. Upshaw wore in his pro career. But Mr. Smith tends to tiptoe around the subject of his predecessor's close relationship with management.
''When people talked about the model in the past, that Gene and Paul had such a great relationship so they were able to make these deals work out, well, neither of those guys is here anymore,'' he said.
But Mr. Upshaw alienated many retired N.F.L. players who wanted better benefits and more respect. When asked about retired players in 2006, Mr. Upshaw said, ''The bottom line is, I don't work for them.''
Mr. Smith -- who often describes his interests as defending those who ''play, have played and will play'' football -- has made a point to extend a hand to N.F.L. alumni by adding two seats for former players on the union executive committee, as well as combining meetings of active player representatives with those representing former players.
As a corporate lawyer at Patton Boggs, the high-powered Washington firm, Mr. Smith dealt with companies that were either ''in crisis or were about to be.'' As a candidate for the N.F.L.P.A. job, he composed what he called ''Playbook: An Enterprise Philosophy to Maximize the Business and Political Interest of the N.F.L.P.A.'' ''About 60 percent of it,'' he said, ''was envisioning what the chances were of a lockout and what to do to prepare for it.''
It was a useful exercise. ''The only bad thing is that everything we thought and contemplated the league would do they've done,'' Mr. Smith said.
The prospect of a lockout has only increased in recent months. During the first full week in January, when reports spread that ESPN was ready to extend its ''Monday Night Football'' contract for $2 billion a year beginning in 2014, the union was already taking legal action, arguing that the N.F.L. had wrongfully entered into new television agreements to create a lockout fund for owners. The N.F.L. gets $1.935 billion a year from its three network partners, $1.1 billion from ESPN and $1 billion from DirecTV for its ''Sunday Ticket'' package.
''De Smith is in a very difficult situation,'' said Marc Ganis, president of SportsCorp, a sports consulting firm. ''You want to start strong out of the gate, but Gene negotiated a deal that was very one-sided for the players. But now Gene's gone and De's going to have to go back to the players with what might be a lesser deal -- not in the long term but certainly in the short term.''
MR. SMITH, who grew up in Washington, played high school football, but never a professional sport. He began his law career in Washington prosecuting criminals for the United States attorney.
''You want drama?'' he asked. ''Stand up in a courtroom and be a prosecutor with a guy who just killed four people, set his girlfriend on fire and then shot her in the back of the head twice and you know if you lose this, he goes back on the street. How do you sleep at night? Good? I did because I knew I was going to do the best I could to win.''
He says he intends to do his best for the union, too. In speaking to the player reps, he said the owners ''always ask me, 'What can you sell to the players?' Sell to them? I work for them!''
He was on a roll. ''How condescending of a world is it where every time we sit down with these guys they say to us, 'What do you think you can sell?' '' Mr. Smith asked.
He told them: ''Love what you love and do what you do. We're in the business of football.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DeMaurice Smith, head of the N.F.L. players' union, spoke to players after a practice for the 2010 Pro Bowl. He is pushing to protect players' health as owners demand a longer regular season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN A. KOSKI/N.F.L.P.A.)(BU1)
Roger Goodell, the N.F.L. commissioner, with DeMaurice Smith, of the players' union, at last year's Super Bowl. They face a March 3 contract deadline. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Marvin Miller, with players in 1972. He built the Major League Baseball Players Association into the most powerful union in professional sports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Gene Upshaw, former head of the players' union, and Paul Tagliabue, right, the former N.F.L. commissioner, who had amicable contract negotiations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SPORTS FANS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); ATHLETES (76%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (75%); LAWYERS (73%); BASEBALL (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSOCIATION (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (85%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



577 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Farm Policy, Sugar Policy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In arguing that it is reckless to cut the budget during hard times and high unemployment but good to eliminate farm policy (''Here's an Easy One,'' editorial, Jan. 16), you miss both targets. 
Farm policy accounts for one-fourth of 1 percent of the budget. It would take 103 years of savings from the repeal of farm policy to eliminate this year's deficit, and 1,093 years to eliminate the debt.
On the economy, the Fed concluded that, thanks to agriculture, ''rural America is leading the U.S. economic recovery'' as it did in the last recession. But the Fed also warns that farm debt has risen ''the fastest since the prelude to the 1980s farm debt crisis'' that affected even New York.
Against all the misrepresentations about farm policy, I have some sobering news: if the bottom falls out on agriculture, existing farm policy is already too weakened to prevent a crisis.
Larry Combest
Lubbock, Tex., Jan 19, 2011
The writer, a registered lobbyist for several farm organizations, was chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, 1999-2002.
To the Editor:
I wasn't surprised to see the Jan. 16 editorial taking a swipe at sugar policy (''Here's an Easy One''). But I was surprised that this latest attack came in an editorial about the need to trim federal budgets.
Sugar policy operates at no cost to taxpayers and hasn't contributed to the debt. And the White House projects that sugar policy will remain no cost through at least 2020. It's hard to be more fiscally responsible than that.
Jack Roney Arlington, Va., Jan. 18, 2011
The writer is director of economics and policy analysis, American Sugar Alliance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); WRITERS (78%); LOBBYING (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LUBBOCK, TX, USA (53%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



578 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Bears and Packers: To Call Them Rivals Is Understatement

BYLINE: By DAN McGRATH. 
dmcgrath@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
If you had been on holiday in Siberia last week, you might not know that one of the longest-running, most hotly contested rivalries in sports has been kicked up to Defcon 9 levels in the area. It has been in all the papers, unblushingly described as the biggest game in Chicago history.
Yankees-Red Sox? Harvard-Yale? Conan-Jay? Those are schoolyard squabbles compared with Bears-Packers. The teams will meet Sunday at Soldier Field for the third matchup this season and the 182nd time in their shared history, and, hyperbole aside, the stakes have never been higher: the N.F.C. Championship and a berth in Super Bowl XLV in Dallas on Feb. 6 will be decided. 
If only the late, great John Facenda of NFL Films were around to provide Voice of God narration.
This is that big, even if some people intimately involved with the series can't pinpoint why it evokes such passion. They just know it does.
''I'd have people come up to me during the lean years and say, 'Well, we didn't do very well, but at least we beat the Bears,' '' said Bob Harlan, the Packers' chairman emeritus who worked for the team for 37 years and ran it as chief executive for 19. ''When Gene Ronzoni was hired to replace Curly Lambeau as coach, there was strong opposition to him because he had played for the Bears.''
Ronzoni lasted less than three years. There are other, more successful examples of Bears-Packers cross-pollination: Bob Harlan's son Bryan was the Bears' media relations director for 16 years, and brothers Jack and Jerry Vainisi were front-office operatives for the Packers and Bears, respectively, about 25 years apart.
The Vainisis grew up on Chicago's North Side, and their parents operated an Italian deli frequented by many Bears players. But young Jerry's Bears allegiance shifted abruptly when Jack, older by 14 years, took a job as a scout for the Packers after mustering out of the Army following his playing career at Notre Dame.
''I was a ballboy in training camp,'' Jerry said, ''and I became such a Packer fan that I didn't know if I could root for the Bears after they hired me. It was easier once the paychecks started coming in.''
But there are Bears, and there are Packers. Jim McMahon won a second Super Bowl ring as the Packers' backup quarterback in 1997, but he wore his Bears jersey on the team's White House visit because the Bears never got to go -- the space shuttle Challenger blew up on the day they were scheduled in 1986.
Packer backers might resent Chicago's uppity disdain for their small-town ways, but Green Bay probably owes its N.F.L. existence to George Halas, the Bears' founder and patriarch. As pro football was coming of age in the '50s, Halas backed the concept of pooled TV income and other revenue-sharing measures that meant economic survival for a minimarket team like the Packers. He also traveled to Green Bay to campaign for a new stadium, which the Packers needed to retain their place in the N.F.L. And when the team sought a new coach after a 1-10-1 season in 1958, Halas recommended Vince Lombardi.
He got the job, and he would cuff Halas's Bears around with gap-toothed glee, winning five titles in seven years, including the first two Super Bowls. Lombardi was a New Yorker, and influential New York writers like Red Smith helped shape the Lombardi legend as the Packers became pro football's glamour team, built around the nine Hall of Famers Jack Vainisi drafted from 1950 to 1960. The Bears, meanwhile, floundered -- the Halas mom-and-pop approach was hopelessly outdated in an increasingly sophisticated N.F.L.
Jerry Vainisi joined the Bears in 1972 and helped Jim Finks assemble the swashbuckling collection of characters responsible for their smash-and-grab victory in Super Bowl XX. Mike Ditka was the coach then, and didn't he relish winning 8 of 10 from the Packers while his crusty rival Forrest Gregg was their coach from 1983 to 1987.
The animosity spilled over to the field. In 1985, Ditka put Refrigerator Perry in the backfield and had him score a touchdown against the Packers in a Monday Night game.
A year later, Charles Martin wrecked McMahon's shoulder by driving him into the ground on a blatantly late hit. Thus began the Bears' deterioration, and it accelerated as Halas heir Michael McCaskey gradually purged them of all things Ditka. The Packers could empathize, having fallen off precipitously post-Lombardi.
Green Bay had three winning seasons and two playoff appearances in the '70s and '80s combined, Harlan said. ''We had to do better.''
Hiring Ron Wolf as football czar in 1991 was the first step. Wolf brought in Mike Holmgren as coach, traded for Brett Favre to play quarterback and signed Reggie White as a signature defensive player. Thirteen seasons of .500 or better followed, plus two Super Bowl trips. Now they're trying to replicate the formula with Ted Thompson as chief football brain, Mike McCarthy as coach, Aaron Rodgers as franchise quarterback and Charles Woodson and Clay Matthews anchoring the defense.
The Bears are a more eclectic mix. They finally tired of the 21 vagabonds who started games at quarterback while Favre was a Green Bay fixture and traded their future for Jay Cutler, with games like this in mind. Brian Urlacher and Matt Forte are products of the draft, and Julius Peppers represents an ambitious free-agent plunge.
So whose approach is the right one? We'll find out Sunday, after the hoopla subsides.
''I hear these players from Florida and Texas saying, 'I hate the Packers' -- where does that come from?'' Vainisi said. ''There's psychology at work here.''
Or something. I've got Bears, 16-13.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fans of the Chicago Bears and the Green Bay Packers will turn out Sunday at Soldier Field. The Bears defeated the Packers, 20-17, on Sept. 27, 2010. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: GREEN BAY PACKERS (94%); CHICAGO BEARS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



579 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Lawsuit Loans

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Lawsuit Loans Add New Risk for the Injured'' (''Betting on Justice'' series, front page, Jan. 17) usefully describes the growing and influential lawsuit-lending industry that, like payday lenders, pawn shops and loan sharks, generally targets low-income Americans with a convenient if usurious line of credit. And the article even supplies some recent background on relevant state legislation and court decisions, but it doesn't offer longer-term historical context or a bigger picture critique of such loans. 
The fact is that lobbyists and investors, like Sheldon Silver, the New York State Assembly speaker, are pushing states across the country to overturn laws and legal standards that had previously, for more than 2,000 years, proscribed third-party financing of litigation.
They want lawmakers and judges to forget that history -- from the ancient Greeks and Romans to Western lawmakers and jurists throughout much of the 20th century -- encapsulated succinctly in an 1850 law lecture by Abraham Lincoln: ''Never stir up litigation. A worse man can scarcely be found than one who does this.''
But on top of its predatory abuses, lawsuit lending can only encourage still more job-killing, growth-sapping lawsuits while our economy still struggles and personal bankruptcies again rise. So why in the world would policy makers in any state even consider carrying political water for such a pernicious industry?
Darren McKinney Director of Communications American Tort Reform Association Washington, Jan. 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LOBBYING (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (73%); CLASSICS (73%); TORTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); TORT REFORM (71%); HISTORY (70%); LEGAL EDUCATION (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



580 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Woes Are a Tourist Boon

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
For more than a year, the weakest economies in Europe have been struggling: Greece and Ireland have already received bailouts, and Portugal and Spain may be next. Lucky for travelers, the economic woes of these countries can mean opportunities for those who want to visit them. While the weak euro, which recently fell below the $1.30 mark, makes the entire Euro Zone cheaper for Americans, some of the best bargains can be found in the hardest-hit countries. Ireland, Greece and Portugal, in particular, are offering what amount to fire-sale prices as hotels and tour operators slash rates.
Yet, austerity measures meant to win back market confidence can also create issues for tourists. ''In any of these cities, public services, like buses and trains, might see their services scaled back,'' said Tom Meyers, founder of eurocheapo.com, which reviews inexpensive hotels in dozens of cities. ''There are very real budget problems being dealt with here -- and these could affect your trip.''
But travelers who are aware of the possibility of disruptions and have the flexibility to deal with them, will find a wide range of enticing deals. Below are some country-by-country options. 
Ireland
Visitors to Ireland dropped to about 6.6 million last year from 7.6 million in 2009, partly because so many flights were canceled after the Iceland volcano erupted. In a scramble to make up for lost revenue, hotels and tour operators created ever more attractive packages to lure visitors. Meanwhile, the bank-financed construction boom, which helped create Ireland's debt crisis, also left a wider array of accommodations for travelers to choose from. ''There has never been a better time to get great value offers -- whether you are looking to stay in a luxury castle, five-star hotel, cottage or B&B accommodations,'' said Ruth Moran, a publicity manager for Tourism Ireland. ''There is something to suit every budget.''
Take this six-night package from Sceptre Tours, based in Lynbrook, N.Y. The $899 per person price tag includes accommodations in a three-bedroom villa on the grounds of Adare Manor Hotel & Golf Resort, an 840-acre estate in Limerick; round-trip economy class airfare to Shannon from New York; and a weekly car rental. The cost, which is based on four people vacationing together between June 16 and Aug. 31 is less than it would be to buy the airfare alone.
Ashford Castle in County Mayo, on the shores of Lough Corrib and the River Cong, has reduced its rates across the board, bringing down the price for a 550-euro deluxe room in summer to 455 euros (about $700 to $580). On top of that, the castle is offering three nights for the price of two all year long. CIE Tours, International, which specializes in trips to Ireland and Britain, is maintaining 2010 prices in 2011; it is offering some attractive group tours, including a six-day Taste of Ireland trip from $658 that includes admission to popular tourist sites like Blarney Castle and the Cliffs of Moher; a medieval banquet at Bunratty Castle; a tour of Dublin with a local guide; and sheepdog demonstrations along the Ring of Kerry.
One caveat: Travelers interested in touring the West of Ireland may have a little more legwork to do this year as the economic downturn has resulted in air service cuts to the region. Aer Lingus suspended its trans-Atlantic service between New York and Shannon Airport between Jan. 5 and March 27. In response, some tour operators are reworking their trips to begin and end in Dublin. Sceptre's six-night $749 Castle Hotels package, which used to fly into Dublin and depart from Shannon, now begins and ends in Dublin, requiring travelers to double back.
Portugal
Portugal's Old World charm and cultural offerings have long offered bargain hunters an alternative to Europe's pricier destinations. But hotel rates have come down even more -- between 14 and 18 percent, according to the Portuguese National Tourist Office -- as both the down economy and competition from new hotels put pressure on rates.
A night at the new LX boutique hotel, which opened in September in the Baixa district of Lisbon, starts at just 80 euros a night. The Bussaco Palace Hotel, a former royal palace with original 19th-century furnishings and tapestries, offers an ''affordable luxury'' package from 120 euros a night that includes buffet breakfast, a bottle of wine and a free upgrade to a larger room if available. For other upscale accommodations at reasonable rates, check out Pousadas.pt, a government-supported network of Portuguese pousadas -- old monasteries, manor houses and castles that have been redesigned for travelers. Through March, the group is offering rates as low as 75 euros a night, including the Pousada in Viseu, which was originally opened as a hospital in 1842. It now offers two restaurants, 84 rooms with cable television, and a spa with a Turkish bath.
Meanwhile, flying to Portugal from the States is also getting easier. TAP Portugal, which already flies between Newark and Lisbon, is adding service between the Portuguese capital and Miami this summer.
Greece
After news of a huge bailout and wave of cutbacks last May, ''there was an instantaneous drop in prices,'' said Pavlos Yeroulanos, minister of culture and tourism for Greece. The discounts helped buoy visitor statistics, with roughly the same number arriving in 2010 as the previous year. To help keep tourists coming this year, the Greek Parliament reduced the so-called V.A.T. (value-added tax) charged to tourists by hotels to 6.5 percent from 11 percent.
Even before the tax cut, hotel rooms are cheaper. According to American Express Travel, average rates are down roughly 12 percent, even among high-end properties like the Blue Palace Resort & Spa or the Elounda Beach Hotel and Villas in Crete. TabletHotels.com reports a drop of 25 percent in rates last year and expects similar discounts this year. For example, the Periscope Hotel, a trendy boutique hotel in Athens, is offering double rooms from 145 euros a night in June on TabletHotels.com, down from 186 euros, the average rate booked last June on the site. Viator.com, which links travelers with local tour operators for sightseeing, is offering between 10 and 20 percent off excursions from Athens, including a two-day trip to visit the cliff-top monasteries of Meteora.
Travelers must be flexible as strikes and protests could disrupt travel plans. Just last month, public transportation workers walked off their jobs to protest pay cuts, and a general strike in Athens turned violent when youths clashed with police outside Parliament and other central landmarks. Working with a tour operator who has local connections can help mitigate any issues caused by protests and strikes.
Or you can just stay away from the capital entirely. ''The islands of Greece remain virtually unaffected by rioting,'' said Richard Bruce Turen, a Virtuoso travel agent who specializes in Greek cruises. ''The old men still sit in the village square drinking ouzo and playing with their worry beads.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FRANCISCO CACERES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AIR FARES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); RESORTS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); TRAINS (72%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); GOLF (64%); LAKES (60%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (92%); GREECE (90%); ICELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



581 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Transparency for ARMs

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
CHANGES to the Truth in Lending Act have helped make loan documents more understandable for many borrowers, but some people with more complicated, fluctuating mortgages may still struggle to grasp all the terms.
The Federal Reserve is now addressing some of those concerns. As of Jan. 30, lenders will be required to provide more detailed, easier-to-read disclosures -- in spread-sheet-style tabular format -- of the interest rates and monthly payments associated with all mortgages, most significantly adjustable-rate mortgages, or ARMs.
The Fed guidelines also apply to other types of variable mortgages, including negative-amortization loans, which involve monthly payments whose sums are less than the interest due, with the difference added to the loan balance. And they apply to: interest-only loans; introductory ''teaser'' rate loans; ''balloon'' payment loans; and ''step-rate'' loans, in which rates adjust one or more times. 
''All of these loans are really complex for the consumer,'' said Thomas Martin, the president of America's Watchdog, a consumer advocacy group. Many variable loans covered under the guidelines, he said, were at the center of the subprime meltdown and appear to be making a comeback.
The Fed's guidelines were issued in September, though some were clarified in a December ruling. Constituting a revision to the Truth in Lending Act, they seek to spell out how lenders must disclose changes in interest rates and monthly payments for all mortgages. The September rules go into effect Jan. 30; compliance with the December clarifications is optional until Oct. 1.
Terry H. Francisco, a spokesman for Bank of America, said the bank was ''fully prepared to implement these new documents.''
''The additional clarity included in the new documentation,'' he added, ''will fully illustrate when a borrower's payment will change, as well as the maximum amount of a future payment after a defined period.''
But Mr. Martin also expressed concern that borrowers might be ''further confused'' by the guidelines -- ''they're going to be awash in spreadsheets.''
Lenders must provide estimates of amounts to be put in escrow for payment of property taxes and mortgage or property insurance due on loans. They must also disclose that borrowers have no guarantee they will be able to refinance to lower the monthly payments.
In particular, the rules dictate that for adjustable and step-rate loans, lenders show the maximum interest rate and monthly payment due over the first five years of the loan, as well as an example of the ''worst case'' highest rate and monthly payment possible over the life of the loan.
Lenders will be disclosing maximum rates and amounts that consumers might actually have to pay, instead of forcing them to make do with hypothetical numbers. ARM rate adjustments typically do not begin until three, five, or sometimes even seven years after origination.
For interest-only mortgages, the December rules clarify that lenders must inform borrowers of the date that an interest-rate change takes place, rather than the date when the modified payment is due. A month or more can separate the two dates, and interest accrues over that time; consumers will know exactly when higher rates kick in.
The guidelines also cover loans with negative amortization features, and are designed to help consumers see the financial difference between ''minimum'' and ''full'' payments.
The guidelines are among the biggest buying aids since previous Truth in Lending requirements in July 2009, which allow loan applicants to review documents for three days before the formal loan process begins. Lenders were also required to issue fresh disclosure documents if loan terms worsen before the settlement date, restarting the review process.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%); PROPERTY TAX (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



582 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: The State That Went Bust

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
AS the states dream up budget plans for a new year, some find themselves staring at deficits in the billions of dollars, vanishing federal stimulus funds, mounting health care costs, their own struggling cities and a canyon of underfunded pension liabilities ahead.
That -- meshed with images from the European debt crisis -- has led some to begin fretting about the possibility, however remote, that a state, unable to pay its bills, might tumble into default. Some policymakers have begun quietly discussing whether states should be allowed to seek bankruptcy protection, a legal status granted to qualifying taxation districts, towns, cities and counties but not to entire states. 
Yet plenty of experts on municipal bonds and government finance -- who view as alarmist the notion that a state may default on its obligations -- note that it has been decades since any state actually defaulted on its bonds, or, in their view, even came close.
As it happens, the most recent such collapse occurred during the Great Depression, when Arkansas found itself, in the words of one state historian, ''plain, flat broke.'' There are familiar threads then and now, not least of all the overlay of a national financial slump.
But in many ways, the situation in Arkansas was a unique set of decisions and woes, piled one on top of the next, and a case study, some contend, in why this will not happen to states today. As that thinking goes, times now for states are undeniably grim, but not as grim as they once were in Arkansas. But should a state find itself near default, there is also a lesson in Arkansas, where the fallout lingered for decades.
In the 1920s, Arkansas made a push to build roads for the nation's fast-expanding automobile industry, hoping to pull the state into the modern age. Local road districts took on the task, borrowing money and building what they could, but the result was more a financially troubled mishmash than a statewide network, so the state eventually stepped in, said Ben Johnson, a history professor at Southern Arkansas University in Magnolia.
The state borrowed more money to expand roads as well as taking on the debts of the local road districts -- a move some now compare to states' offers of financial assistance to sinking cities (like Harrisburg, Pa., or Hamtramck, Mich.) and the imagined possibility that a state would ultimately be toppled by bailing out a rush of failing or bankrupt municipalities.
In 1927, the Mississippi River system flooded, covering a third of Arkansas and destroying infrastructure (including some of those precious roads) and miles of cotton fields, a key product in the state.
And so, by the early 1930s, after the crash of the stock market and another natural disaster -- this time, a cotton-withering drought -- Arkansas was looking at a catastrophic ratio of debt payments, said C. Fred Williams, a historian at he University of Arkansas at Little Rock. The total debt had grown to more than $160 million (a lot at that time), and the state's annual payments grew unsustainable. By some historians' estimates, the state owed half its annual revenue to debt payments, and others say the payments were even higher.
At one point, the state's treasurer reported that Arkansas's general revenue fund showed a balance of $4.62, Dr. Johnson said, and by 1933, Arkansas could not make its bond payments. Analysts tick off many reasons that such a crisis would not happen now, or at least not in exactly the same way -- with a default on bonds. For one thing, states' payments on bonds generally amount now to only 4 percent or 5 percent of their total budgets, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Still, states have other obligations that some view as vulnerable, including to pension systems.
In most states, some bonds are considered the first priority for payment, or a very high priority, even before ordinary services. Certainly, any serious talk of allowing states to seek bankruptcy protection under Chapter 9 -- which municipalities can currently pursue -- could create doubts in an anxious municipal bond market.
Perhaps the largest protection against a repeat of Arkansas 1933 is the simplest: states have straightforward -- if not always politically palatable -- ways to pay their obligations if problems arise. They can raise taxes or cut spending. Arkansas had those options too, but its costs had grown monstrous (for a while, the state had among the highest per capita debt in the nation), and the prospect of new taxes seemed impossible at a moment when per capita income was among the lowest in the country and the state's revenues were rapidly shriveling. ''The problem is,'' said James E. Spiotto, a municipal bankruptcy expert at Chapman & Cutler, a law firm in Chicago, ''if you don't address the problems, then the problems sometimes get larger.''
For the record, Arkansas 2011 is not facing the level of economic misery of some other places. State officials are predicting a slight rise in revenue. Some leaders are talking of cutting the sales tax rate on groceries. And the state owes 2.6 percent of its spending -- among the lowest in the country -- to debt interest.
After 1933, Arkansas officials eventually restructured their debt, under pressure from unhappy bondholders who had filed suit. But the fallout would leave its mark for years.
Whatever political wind had rolled in with so much excitement (and borrowing) in the 1920s turned the other way. New leaders promised to retrench. They adopted rules that required more approval for any borrowing. One state leader even briefly entertained a plan to end the state's support of education after eighth grade as one more way to save, Dr. Johnson said.
In the eyes of John A. Dominick, a professor of banking and finance at the University of Arkansas, a series of financial struggles -- including the experience of 1933 -- has created an unwritten tenet that still ripples through the state's culture: Never spend more than you have.
For years, infrastructure updates were all but forgotten. Roads were left as they were. Another highway bond issue was not approved until 1949. And the state's financial and psychic image to the nation, already tenuous, was further set back. ''1933 was a good lesson, one of those things that's hard to learn about debt until it happens to you,'' Dr. Williams said. ''But it also held back ambitions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: POOR: Arkansas sharecroppers in 1935. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (86%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EURO CRISIS (73%); HISTORY (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



583 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: House's Grim Budget Sounds the Alarm

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, the managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column.
Let's assume that the budgeteers in the Texas House are serious about the $156.4 billion biennial spending plan they proposed last week. That they really aren't going to put up the money to educate the 80,000 new students who join the state's public school systems every year (that number also takes into account the students who leave each year) and that schools will get $9.8 billion less than due under the Legislature's current financing formulas.
That they're going to cut the number of college students who receive financial aid from Texas Grants to 27,135 in 2013 from 86,830 in 2011. That they're so pressed for cash that they're going to charge state employees to park in state garages while they're doing their state jobs, and ask them to order double-doses of prescription pills and split them in half to save the state around $700,000 (bonus points for creativity; that's Depression-era ingenuity, like reusing tin foil or hoarding soap chips). 
That there's no money for new enrollees to Medicaid or for inflation and increased use of the program by people in it now. That providers -- doctors and hospitals and such -- will get a 10 percent cut in their reimbursements and still accept Medicaid patients. That four community colleges and a state prison (that's a first) should be closed. That financing for the state's environmental monitoring of water and air quality should be halved. That the state's Parks and Wildlife Department should lose a third of its financing.
The parade of horribles goes on for hundreds of pages. But the people putting on this show are presenting it to prevent it from happening.
In January 2003, with the state facing what seemed at the time to be a huge shortfall --$10 billion, as compared with $15 billion to $27 billion this time -- Gov. Rick Perry laid out a 400-page budget with zeros where the dollar amounts usually go. It was a political stunt, meant to say the state should start from the bottom and work up, to assume that nothing in the previous budget was automatically included.
The budget is the government's central policy document. Whatever lawmakers eventually approve will serve as the working blueprint for the state for the two years starting Sept. 1. But the budget released last week isn't a blueprint -- it's a political document. It marks the shift from the theoretical rhetoric of the campaigns to the reality of government, from ''We're not going to take it anymore!'' to ''What is it we want government to do?''
In some ways, this House plan is the sort of stunt the governor pulled in 2003. Nobody has leaped up to say they'd vote for it, or really even to defend it. Representative Jim Pitts, the Waxahachie Republican who leads the Appropriations Committee and whose name is on the bill, told his colleagues in a session explaining the proposal that it would change as the session went along -- a way of saying things will be bad, but not this bad.
So what's the point of introducing it? To sound the alarm and see who answers. It's a Chicken Little budget. ''You know, there's nothing in this bill that's not painful,'' Mr. Pitts said.
The shock comes from the attachment of things to numbers -- the moment when the boring, dry math of the budget is translated into the programs and services provided by the state, when campaigners become lawmakers.
Remember when your favorite candy bar got smaller and the price stayed the same? That was effectively a price increase. And it's just what's happening in government at the moment, in Texas, in other states, and maybe, at some point, in Washington. Voters say they want to pay less. Governments -- legislators -- now have to show those voters what they're giving up. And then they'll make the choice between the need for thrift and the need for government and the things it provides: public safety, education, health care, roads and such.
It runs, in that way, just like a business. Want it? Pay for it. Don't want to pay for it? Thanks for your interest -- come back when you have the money.
Democrats don't like it. They also don't have the numbers to stop most of it. They have the small consolation of being able to blame the results on the other party, but it's the results, and not the consolation, they're interested in.
What about the voters? Representative Sylvester Turner, Democrat of Houston, said the final budget would depend, to some extent, on who squawked loudest. ''You're going to feel the pain,'' he told the Houston Chronicle. ''This is the paradigm they've created. And now the question is whether or not Texans find that acceptable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); STATE PARKS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (63%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



584 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: EXTREME MEASURES: How a Single Match Can Ignite a Revolution

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
WHAT drives an ordinary man to burn himself to death?
That question has echoed across the Arab world and beyond in the weeks since an unemployed Tunisian, Mohamed Bouazizi, doused himself with paint thinner and lit a match on Dec. 17. His desperate act set off street clashes that ultimately toppled the country's autocratic ruler, and inspired nearly a dozen other men to set themselves on fire in Egypt, Algeria and Mauritania.
Those serial self-immolations have provoked horror and wonder, with some Arab commentators hailing the men as heroic martyrs of a new Middle Eastern revolution, even as others denounce them under headlines like ''Do Not Burn Your Bodies!'' 
Yet burning oneself as political protest is not new. Many Americans remember the gruesome images of Thich Quang Duc, a Buddhist monk, burning himself to death in Saigon during the Vietnam War in 1963, his body eerily still and composed amid the flames. Many other monks followed his example as the war intensified. In Europe, Jan Palach, a 20-year-old Czech who burned himself to death in Prague in 1969 a few months after the Soviet invasion of his country, is remembered as a martyr of the struggle against Communism. Less well-known protesters have died in flames in Tibet, India, Turkey and elsewhere. In China, Buddhists have set themselves alight for at least 1,600 years.
Perhaps what is new about the latest self-immolations is their effectiveness. Mr. Bouazizi, a fruit vendor, set himself on fire in front of the local governor's office after the authorities confiscated his fruit, beat him and refused to return his property. He is now seen as the instigator of a revolution that forced out President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali after 23 years of authoritarian rule. Mr. Bouazizi's imitators hope to generate similar revolts in other Arab countries, where corruption and stifling autocracy have led to a similarly vast gulf between rulers and the ruled.
In the past, many people recoiled from such protesters as attention-seeking lunatics. Or the authorities were too powerful. Few people today remember Homa Darabi, the Iranian child psychiatrist who set herself on fire in a crowded Tehran square in 1994. A month earlier, a 16-year-old girl had been shot to death for wearing lipstick, and Darabi -- who had lived in the United States and refused to wear the veil -- had seen enough. ''Death to tyranny, long live liberty, long live Iran!'' she shouted, as flames engulfed her. Iran's official attitudes toward women's rights have scarcely changed.
One striking feature of the passionate discussion about Mr. Bouazizi and his imitators -- at least for Westerners -- is the relative absence of religion. Most Americans are used to hearing about Muslim suicide bombers who are impelled in part by the promise of salvation. The recent Arab self-immolators appear to have been motivated more by anger and despair at their social and economic plight.
Even some clerics have kept the debate on a secular level. Yousef al-Qaradawi, for instance, a prominent and influential Egyptian cleric who lives in Qatar and has a TV show on Al Jazeera, spoke sympathetically about Mr. Bouazizi and others who attempted suicide, saying that they were driven to it by social injustice and that the responsibility for their deaths lay with the rulers of their countries.
''People call these men brave, and mostly they don't use the word 'suicide' in describing them,'' said Tarik Tlaty, a Moroccan political analyst. ''They don't use the word 'martyrs' either. They call them 'sacrificers,' and they speak of an 'uprising.' It is not a religious language.''
Others, including many clerics, disagree. Al Azhar, the Cairo university that is the oldest and most prestigious center of learning in the Sunni Muslim world, issued a fatwa last week reaffirming that suicide violates Islam even when it is carried out as a social or political protest.
A similar debate has often taken place among Buddhists over self-immolation. Many Buddhist authorities say suicide cannot be reconciled with their religious tradition. But an ascetic strain among Chinese and Korean Buddhists includes gestures of painful self-sacrifice, from the burning of fingers to self-immolation, said Robert Sharf, chairman of the Center for Buddhist Studies at the University of California, Berkeley. The practice is rooted in the Lotus Sutra, a relatively late Buddhist text that speaks of a magic king who douses himself with fragrant oil and allows his body to be burned as a sacrifice.
''Full-body immolation is rarely done solely as a religious practice,'' Dr. Sharf said. ''It is more typically a form of political protest at the same time. For instance, it has been used repeatedly in Chinese history to protest anti-Buddhist state policies, such as the mass defrocking of priests.''
In Afghanistan, some women burn themselves to death to escape abusive marriages, a practice that seems to be on the rise recently. Although these deaths are not intended as social protests, they are often seen in the West as implicit critiques of Afghan society.
It is often impossible to be sure what really motivates those who burn themselves to death. There is debate, for instance, about how Thich Quang Duc viewed his self-immolation in 1963, a protest that was related to the South Vietnamese government's treatment of Buddhist monks and may have been at least partly religious in nature. In other cases, politics may be a cover for personal despair or rage against a loved one.
Whatever the motive, suicide sometimes spreads like a disease, especially when heavily covered in the media. David P. Phillips, a sociologist at the University of California at of San Diego, published a 1974 study documenting spikes in the number of suicides after well-publicized cases. He called it ''the Werther effect,'' after the rash of suicides that followed the 1774 publication of ''The Sorrows of Young Werther,'' the novel by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe whose romantic hero kills himself.
''One thing is strongly suggested by the academic studies: People are more likely to copy suicides if they see that they have results, or get wide attention,'' Dr. Phillips said.
Tunisia has provided grim evidence for that. And Mr. Bouazizi may yet provoke more fiery deaths across the Middle East if the revolution he helped spark is seen as successful.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE ULTIMATE PROTEST: A Buddhist monk, above left, ablaze in Saigon in 1963. The image shocked Americans. In Prague, above, a tribute to Jan Palach, who burned himself to death in 1969 to protest the Soviet occupation of Czechoslovakia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEYSTONE -- GETTY IMAGES
 GERARD LEROUX/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BURN INJURIES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); RELIGION (88%); DEATHS (78%); FIRES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); CORRUPTION (69%); POLITICS (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (68%); GOVERNORS (64%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (70%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (52%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (76%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MAURITANIA (92%); VIETNAM (92%); EGYPT (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); TIBET (79%); MIDDLE EAST (78%); VIET NAM (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); IRAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



585 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Reality TV? Not Really, the Capital Says

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
REALITY TV in Washington has always been something of an oxymoron. The nation's capital should be a reality-show casting director's playground: overwhelming power, operatic personalities, nuclear codes floating around town in a black briefcase. And who wouldn't love to watch the East Wing ladies scramble to throw together a state dinner?
There's just one problem: Someone in power, close to power or even harboring the vaguest ambitions of ever attaining power is about as likely to allow television cameras to follow her around as she is to post Facebook pictures of herself smoking a joint in a hot tub with someone distinctly not her husband. ''Too dangerous,'' a young West Wing aide said (so dangerous, apparently, he didn't even want to be identified talking about the prospect).
That hasn't stopped producers from trying. Bravo's ''Top Chef'' and MTV's ''Real World'' both came to town recently -- and left with poor ratings. And while Bravo's ''Real Housewives of D.C.'' opened to large numbers, its ''real'' housewives had such peripheral connections to the city that people joked they should have been called ''The Real Housewives of Woodbridge, Va.'' 
And now, a show called ''Potomac Fever'' has found a home at the E! network.
Rob Lowe, a former star of ''The West Wing,'' will produce it, along with Los Angeles-based 44 Blue Productions. Vinnie Potestivo, a veteran of hit reality shows who previously ran MTV's East Coast talent development department, is the casting director. Still in the casting phase, ''Potomac Fever'' promises to chronicle the lives of a half-dozen ambitious young Washingtonians as they struggle to make a name for themselves inside the Beltway.
''It's not the 'Real Housewives,' it's not 'The Hills,' it's not 'Laguna Beach,' '' said someone close to the show who, lacking authority to discuss it, did not want to be identified. ''We're not dealing with socialites. We're not dealing with society people. We're dealing with people who are connected to politics.''
As Stephanie Drachkovitch, a co-founder and executive vice president of 44 Blue, said, ''There are a lot of stories to be told in D.C.''
But just whose stories will be told? The likeliest current candidates include a plucky radio D.J. (Tommy McFly), a traffic and entertainment anchor for a local CBS affiliate (Angie Goff), the daughter of the conservative journalist David Frum (Miranda Frum), the former spokesman for the Log Cabin Republicans (Charles Moran), and a Congressional staff member and Washington Wizards dancer who once made a local newspaper's ''Most Beautiful'' list (Kristie Muchnok). Mr. Lowe's political roles -- recently as a Republican senator on ABC's ''Brothers and Sisters'' -- may have helped with his foray into Washington's real political waters.
One Thursday evening earlier this month, a crew of Washingtonians gathered at the Meridian House, a stately cultural building in Northwest Washington, to mingle with the show's prospective cast. The yin-yang relationship between the two coasts was on full display. After everyone had stopped fawning over Mr. Lowe, a group of media and political insiders congregated around Gene Sperling to congratulate him on his new job as President Obama's top economic adviser. (Also notable was that Mr. Sperling had chosen to spend the evening before his official appointment at a reality-TV show party that was essentially a giant soundstage for Mr. Lowe.)
Bisnow Media, a local e-newsletter publishing company; Washington Life magazine, a lifestyle magazine that covers the city's celebrities; and Politico, a political news organization, have all been approached by reality producers, though none seem particularly excited about participating. ''The reason we have the access we do is because we're incredibly circumspect,'' said Soroush Shehabi, the publisher of Washington Life magazine. ''That's the problem with all reality TV in D.C.''
Indeed, at the Meridian House party, all but the most shameless journalists scurried to the corners of the room when the boom mike hovered too close, and most everyone fled from the man trailing behind the camera with consent forms as if he were, well, the man with consent forms.
After all, Washington is in many ways a provincial small town, where everyone knows everyone else's business and the truly interesting parts are off-limits to cameras. Almost all good morsels of gossip are off the record.
''I've gone to some very small, private party events,'' said Pamela Sorensen, the founder of Pamela's Punch, a popular Washington-based social blog, ''and a Colin Powell will be there, or some ambassador, and they're making jokes and they'll say: 'This is off the record. You can't write about this, don't tweet about this, I didn't say this,' and you have to respect a person's privacy so you'll get invited back again.
''When it comes to television, unless you're going to be on 'Face the Nation' or 'Meet the Press,' you go to New York or L.A.''
Some of the women approached for ''Real Housewives,'' Ms. Sorensen said, told the producers, ''My husband has worked way too hard on his career to have a camera come in here.''
Capturing Washington's inner workings may be one of the show's biggest challenges.
''It will be interesting to see who they are able to cast for the show,'' said Kiki Ryan, who covers the Washington social scene for MSNBC's bltwy.com blog, ''and specifically, if they will find themselves with a similar problem to what 'The Real Housewives of D.C.' faced: the truly powerful women in D.C. were reluctant to open their lives up to a reality show. As we've seen, good drama makes for good reality television, and drama is not something powerful Washingtonians want to be associated with.''
THERE is also the old Washington-just-isn't-all-that-cool problem. Sure, it's a city of characters, but Washington is truly at its best -- and, dare we say, coolest -- when it's allowed to be its wonky, earnest, smart, overworked, chronically exhausted, wise-cracking, hyper-educated self.
Other than the annual White House Correspondents' Association dinner (happily nicknamed the ''nerd prom''), establishment Washington does not have a particularly wild party scene. At least not an on-the-record wild party scene. After all, Lindsay Lohan stumbling around drunk in Los Angeles could still conceivably fall in the ''any publicity is good publicity'' category; if Nancy Pelosi did the same thing, it would most likely be a career-ender.
Still, the producers of ''Potomac Fever,'' who have been working on the show for more than a year, seem determined to offer a sparkling glimpse of this city. An early questionnaire they sent to some potential cast members asks questions that are both earnest and amusing: ''Is your life fabulous? What charities, parties, groups are you involved in besides your job? What has the new administration meant to the city? To you personally?''
''How do you represent the Washington Lifestyle?'' the form also asks.
It is a question yet to be answered.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NOT ME: Washington has a new reality TV show, but casting wasn't easy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL TEMCHINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



586 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 NISSAN LEAF; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2253 words

HEADLINE: The People's Electric, Ready to Claim Power

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif.
THE Nissan Leaf, a mildly futuristic four-door hatchback, arrives as so much a pioneer that the systems necessary to keep it moving down the road are still being put in place. The process is a bit like the progression of the first transcontinental railroad: tracks are being laid as a locomotive sits steaming impatiently behind.
Here comes the people's electric car, America, ready or not.
The Leaf's equivalent of those unfinished tracks is a public charging infrastructure, the lack of which is probably the most serious limitation of all purely electric cars. For owners whose trips are within 30 or 40 miles of home (or who can use a charging station at the workplace), this presents no problem. 
Fast-charging stations, a necessity for longer treks, are few and far between now, but a network of them are planned to begin operating within the next year or so. Leaf buyers who buy the optional $700 Quick Charge Port will be able to use a direct-current fast-charger to replenish their batteries to 80 percent of capacity within 30 minutes and continue on their way.
The next quickest solution, Nissan's 220-volt home charging units, cost $2,200 installed and can give a full charge in eight hours, the company says. The majority of public charging stations planned will also use this so-called Level II charging protocol.
With the battery topped off, the Leaf -- a midsize car as defined by the E.P.A. -- has a range of 100 miles, Nissan says. In my testing, I never dared to drive the car that far, mostly because its dashboard range meter said it would not be not possible.
After charging overnight in my garage on a conventional 110-volt household circuit, the Leaf's meter never showed more than 88 miles of possible range; once, it promised as little as 66 miles. Nissan specifies a 21-hour recharge time using house current.
Still, I was able to take short trips and confidently return home. A 40-mile trip to the airport, however, used up more than 50 miles of battery capacity -- leaving too little predicted range to chance driving back home. The car had to be left for a delivery service to pick up, and I found another way home. A lesson learned.
At a starting price of $33,630, the Leaf is by far the least expensive battery-electric car produced in significant numbers; with a 24 kilowatt-hour battery, it qualifies for a $7,500 federal tax credit as well as incentives offered by various states. The Leaf will be sold initially in Arizona, California, Hawaii, Oregon, Tennessee, Texas and Washington; by the end of 2011 it will be offered in all states.
Nissan's determination to keep the price within reach -- the lithium-ion battery pack is a major part of the car's cost -- was one factor in the Leaf's modest range. Building in a battery pack big enough to drive 245 miles on a charge helps push the price of the two-seat Tesla Roadster past $100,000.
Other than range concerns, the Leaf was fascinating to drive. It starts with a push button; the procedure makes no sound. You can tell the car is on when the dashboard lights up. Flip the little shifter button into gear and you're off.
There's no exhaust noise because there is no gas engine to produce exhaust. And no transmission whine because there's no transmission. And very little wind noise.
Without the usual sounds of a conventional car, you hear different things while driving a Leaf -- mainly the cacophony produced by other vehicles. At speeds under 16 m.p.h., a beeping sound alerts those outside the car; inside, the tone cannot be heard.
The tendency is to drive gingerly, to save precious energy, but the Leaf can be driven vigorously. Its electric motor -- just 107 horsepower, but with 207 pound-feet of torque -- accelerates the 3,400-pound car to 60 m.p.h. in 9.4 seconds, according to Road & Track. That requires taking it out of Eco mode, where the greatest efficiency is achieved.
Generally, I tried to be conservative in my use of the accelerator. I stayed at or slightly under the speed limit. I tried to time traffic lights. I braked gradually, keeping some drag on the pedal to draw the maximum energy recapture from the regenerative braking system. And I coasted whenever I could, especially downhill. All that helped bring the range back up, offsetting the drain of scooting away from traffic lights or chugging up a hill.
In truth, the details of the Leaf's operation may be less remarkable than the fact that it is on the road at all.
Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of Nissan and its French partner, Renault, was not a fan of early efforts to electrify the automobile; he had been publicly dismissive of hybrid vehicles from Toyota, Honda, Ford and even Nissan's own Altima Hybrid, which used technology licensed from Toyota.
So Mr. Ghosn's announcement at the 2007 Tokyo Motor Show came as a surprise: Nissan would take world leadership in bringing electric cars to market. He laid out an ambitious timetable, though at the time electric car technology seemed far from mature. ''I think Mr. Ghosn's position was misunderstood at that time,'' Nissan's North American director of product planning and strategy, Mark Perry, said in a recent interview. ''He saw hybrids as more of a bridge technology, and he was anxious to jump over that bridge and go directly to full electrification of the vehicle, which he saw as the true goal.''
That goal, or at least the first stage of it -- Nissan has said it plans to produce a range of E.V.'s -- has been fulfilled with the arrival of the Leaf in showrooms, where it is billed as the first modern-day mass-produced battery-electric vehicle to go on sale in America. Tesla Motors may quibble with that, as it began deliveries of its all-electric Roadster more than a year earlier. But Tesla volumes have only recently topped 1,500 vehicles; Mr. Ghosn has said that Nissan expects to sell at least one million Leafs in its first six years.
The range meter that created so much anxiety for me, it turns out, just takes some getting used to. The system reads the user's history, mixing the previous 30 miles of driving and the immediate history of the past five to six miles of driving, Mr. Perry says, to arrive at its calculations for remaining range. A state of charge indicator in the gauge cluster gives a more accurate picture of the remaining miles, Mr. Perry said.
The most readily available source of replenishment for the battery -- and kindest to the battery pack -- is a standard household plug. But fully recharging a Leaf that way takes a painfully long 21 hours, according to the specifications provided by Nissan.
Consider the trade-off: That's almost a day of down time, hooked to a charger, in exchange for about two hours of driving. This is not so much a design deficiency as a natural result of the chemical processes involved. The Tesla Roadster needs 37 hours hooked to a 110 outlet to complete a full charging regimen.
Nissan takes pride in developing its own high-efficiency electric motor and e-powertrain; the 600-pound 24 kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack delivers higher energy density, the company claims. The pack is air-cooled, which makes it lighter and less complex than a liquid-cooled design, as found in the Chevrolet Volt.
Like the batteries in a laptop computer, which use similar chemistry, the Leaf's lithium-ion cells will lose some capacity over time. Nissan calculates that the Leaf's battery pack, which carries an eight-year, 100,000-mile warranty, will lose 20 percent (30 percent, if fast-charging is used often) of its power over the next decade of use.
During the testing done as part of the car's development process, Mr. Perry said he found the possible range to be from 60 miles to 140 miles, depending on weather conditions and the completeness of the charge. The E.P.A.'s official rating of range is 73 miles, with a fuel economy equivalent of 106 m.p.g. in town and 92 on the highway (based on a conversion of one gallon of gasoline being equal to 33.7 kilowatt hours). Yes, that's significantly less than 100.
''You would be averaging about 3.4-3.5 miles per kilowatt hour,'' Mr. Perry said of the 73-mile range calculation. ''I can easily average 4-5 miles per kilowatt hour.''
In my original test drive of a preproduction Leaf, under optimum conditions last summer -- a mild, windless Southern California afternoon -- I was able to achieve similar averages. But in my recent test, under appalling conditions (cold, rainy, windy nights), the Leaf fell well short of its promise.
At least part of the problem was that I needed to use nearly all of the power-hungry accessories: the heater and defroster, wipers and lights (though they are low-draw LEDs). The radio performed well enough, but the defroster was on par with one from a VW Beetle of the 1960s.
Unlike the Volt, which has a gasoline-powered onboard generator -- G.M. calls it a range extender -- the Leaf has no backup system to keep the car going once the batteries are depleted. And if you run out of juice in the Leaf, you cannot call AAA to bring a five-gallon can of electricity.
So the Leaf seems best suited for short commutes, as a second car or as a thrifty errand-runner. Determined to try something more ambitious, say the 280 or so miles from Los Angeles to Las Vegas? Until fast-charging kiosks are widespread, you'll need to set aside about three days for the trip.
Mr. Perry says the Leaf can travel up to five miles per kilowatt-hour of electricity; at an estimated average cost of 12 cents per kilowatt-hour, according to the Energy Department, the Leaf can cover 100 miles for about $3, taking into consideration the losses in the recharging process.
Because the heavy battery pack is positioned under the seats, the Leaf has a low center of gravity. That, in turn, helps to minimize body roll in cornering. The Leaf emptied rain puddles, splashing rather than aquaplaning through them.
The low-rolling-resistance Bridgestone Ecopia tires gave the car more agility than I had expected. But the amount of actual grip was disappointing, diminishing the possibility of really spirited driving. The steering effort is relatively high and feedback is low; in highway cruising, it just felt numb.
The real entertainment was provided by the instrument panel, with its helpful displays to coach a driver toward more efficient energy use. Conservative driving makes digital pine trees grow in the upper left corner of the panel.
A gauge at the lower left tracks battery temperature. When the battery's state of charge falls to a critically low level, the standard navigation system's screen will identify any nearby quick-charge locations.
The Leaf's standard equipment roster includes Nissan Connection, a remote vehicle access system that reports battery recharge data and lets the owner operate the climate controls using a cellphone so the car can be heated or cooled while still plugged into the charger. The charging operation can be programmed to start at a time when energy rates will be lower.
The dimensions of the five-passenger Leaf split the difference between Nissan's Versa and Altima, and it comes in two trim levels: SV and SL.
The base SV comes with a surprisingly generous amount of standard equipment, including a navigation system and a six-speaker sound system with CD player, satellite radio, an auxiliary audio jack and an iPod-USB audio interface, Bluetooth connectivity and a trip computer.
Other standard items include 16-inch wheels; LED headlights and taillights; power locks, windows and mirrors; cruise control; automatic climate control; height-adjustable driver seat; tilt steering wheel; and a split folding rear seat. The seats are upholstered in a cloth made of recycled materials. Safety features include antilock disc brakes, stability and traction control, front side air bags and side curtain bags.
The SL, which has a $34,570 sticker price, includes a spoiler-mounted solar panel that can trickle-charge a battery dedicated to accessories like the audio system and climate control. SL models come with automatic on-off headlamps, foglamps, a rearview camera and a cargo cover.
The front seats are comfortable and supportive, at least for the amount of miles the Leaf can be driven. The rear seat is adequate, even for adult passengers, and legroom is good.
So, in many ways, this pioneer of the electric car era is just like a traditional car. But will its potential audience of early adopters find that reassuring or a turn-off?
And how many potential buyers are willing to wait four to seven months for delivery of their vehicle? That was the expected waiting time as the first Leaf was delivered to a San Francisco buyer in the first week of December.
The ability to buy a Leaf outright is somewhat novel in the E.V. world, as many past electric cars like the G.M. EV1 had to be leased. Lessees were then obliged to return their vehicles to the manufacturer at lease-end. Such vehicles were often destroyed; the destruction of the EV1 spawned a documentary film, ''Who Killed the Electric Car?''
In that context, the Leaf marks the electric car's resurrection from the dead -- at least so far as a major manufacturer is concerned.
Will the E.V. genus blossom and proliferate as a result of the Leaf's introduction?
No single model from any automaker will answer that question, of course. If anything, the Leaf demonstrates how much the widespread acceptance of vehicles that produce zero tailpipe emissions will depend on external factors like a charging infrastructure.
INSIDE TRACK: Is sustainable mobility sustainable?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PURPOSE BUILT: Leaf's slick aerodynamic shape helps to stretch its driving range. Left, the dashboard range meter. (AU1)
 DISTINCTIVE: With its battery pack mounted under the floor, the Leaf offers generous interior space for five. Left, the front-mounted ports can accommodate different levels of charging. (AU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); TRAINS (77%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (77%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (66%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (58%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



587 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Omerta May Be Dead; the Mafia Isn't

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB. 
Selwyn Raab, a former reporter for The Times, is the author of ''Five Families: The Rise, Decline and Resurgence of America's Most Powerful Mafia Empires.''

 BODY:
QUITE a coincidence: In January 1961, Robert F. Kennedy, newly appointed as attorney general of the United States, orchestrated the first concentrated attack on the American Mafia. Almost to the day 50 years later, the government swept up more than 120 people in a smorgasbord of racketeering indictments, mainly in the New York area.
It was described as the largest single-day assemblage of Mafiosi defendants in America. The arrests, however, underline a sobering message: despite half a century of law enforcement campaigns, New York's Cosa Nostra (''Our Thing'') continues to prosper. This is often because some change -- usually either shifting priorities for law enforcement or improved strategy on the part of the new criminal bosses -- gives the mob breathing space to rebuild. 
Since the birth of the American Mafia in 1931, New York has been its crown jewel. While other major cities and regions were limited to one family, or borgata, New York was afflicted with five powerful ones, now known as the Bonanno, Colombo, Gambino, Genovese and Luchese groups. (There is also a satellite unit, the DeCavalcantes, in New Jersey.)
In the decades after the passage of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations laws of 1970, the F.B.I. and the Justice Department eliminated or severely weakened all 20-odd families in other cities and regions. In New York, the hierarchies of the five families were thought to have been pretty much destroyed by the so-called Commission Case in the mid-1980s and other investigations. By the end of the last century, prosecutors and F.B.I. officials all too frequently proclaimed that even the mob's sacred stronghold in New York was crushed.
As they did to so many aspects of American life, however, the 9/11 attacks radically transformed things. Until 9/11, the F.B.I. had two top priorities: counterespionage and the mob. But in the early 2000s the Justice Department dropped Cosa Nostra investigations as a priority, reassigning hundreds of agents to antiterrorist units.
In New York, the linchpin in the F.B.I.'s crusade against wise guys, the number of agents and Police Department investigators assigned to battling the five families in combined task forces declined to about 100 from a high point of 450. Last week's indictments demonstrated how effectively the borgatas had regrouped.
Federal officials, as recently as five years ago, boasted that the New York Mafia had been expelled from its main bastions: private garbage carting, the garment center, the construction industry, waterfront cargo and control of key unions. But the current indictments tell a different tale -- most allege that the mob was behind corrupt construction deals and waterfront shakedowns through infiltration of unions.
The sweeping arrests also reflect a major change in Mafia strategy. There were no celebrity names reminiscent of former kingpins like John J. Gotti or Vincent Gigante, known as ''Chin.'' The alleged bosses are virtually unknown outside of law enforcement circles. Like the dons of the 1930s and 1940s, they maintained low profiles and, unlike the flamboyant Mr. Gotti, were presumably aware they were running secret organizations.
This is not to say the arrests don't indicate progress. It's encouraging that law enforcement is still able to overcome the Mafia's code of silence, or omerta. The racketeering statutes' threat of severe prison sentences, including life behind bars, is reported to have spurred many low- and middle-ranked mobsters to turn informant.
Nonetheless, even if we drive the criminals out of their traditional corruption rackets, it's unlikely to be an obituary for the mob. Sports bookmaking and loan-sharking, the Mafia's symbiotic bread-and-butter staples, will continue to flourish and provide seed money for other criminal endeavors.
There are several reasons for this. High-end gamblers prefer wagering with the mob rather than with state-authorized gambling operations like Off-Track Betting, where you have to pay taxes on your winnings. Moreover, the mob is adept at running bookmaking mills and, even when arrests occur, sentences are rarely harsh.
The timing of the government crackdown, which included some raids on gambling networks, might put a crimp into an exceptionally profitable venture for the mob -- the Super Bowl next month. A study by the New York Police Department's Organized Crime Control Bureau 20 years ago estimated that more than $1 billion was wagered on the Super Bowl with mob-linked bookies in the New York area.
Another huge money-producer, loan-sharking, is customarily a partnership with illegal gambling. Compulsive bettors in debt to a bookie frequently have recourse only to a loan shark for quick cash. Hard economic times can be a bonanza for mob lenders. They learned during the Great Depression that honest business owners will seek usurious loans when banks are reluctant to finance small- and medium-sized enterprises.
Above all, though, the mob's ability to survive is a legacy from Charles (Lucky) Luciano. He was a brilliant criminal executive who created the framework, culture and ground rules for the American Mafia 80 years ago. Luciano realized that other ethnic gangs were loosely organized, usually involved in just one type of crime and easily obliterated when their leaders were imprisoned. Hence his cardinal principle: the organization -- the family -- was supreme and not reliant on a single individual or one racket. Whenever a boss or a capo was removed, a replacement would be waiting in the wings to keep the loot flowing.
So, while the unveiling of the indictments last week by Attorney General Eric Holder was a sharp warning that the Mafia was again on the Justice Department's radar screen, we should bear in mind the mob's previous Lazarus-like revivals. The removal of the current crop of Mafia barons will probably engender a new generation of mobsters. There have always been, and always will be, ambitious, greedy wise guys who are willing to risk long prison sentences for the power and riches glittering before them. The Mafia is wounded, but not fatally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); FAMILY (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); LAWYERS (78%); EXTORTION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); POLICE FORCES (63%); ESPIONAGE (61%); CONSTRUCTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



588 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD JOINT WEST VILLAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Where Wax (Rip! 'Ouch!') Is Queen

BYLINE: By ALEXIS MAINLAND

 BODY:
MALYNDA VIGLIOTTI opened her waxing salon, the Boom Boom Brow Bar, in the spring of 2008, the same week the financial markets began their drastic downturn. And her potential customers, a species of well-maintained New Yorkers who operate under a ''No Follicle Left Behind'' edict, stayed home.
In such a tense economic mood, Ms. Vigliotti quickly realized the solution was a knowing discount. She devised her first sale, ''The Bare Stearns,'' a Brazilian bikini wax marked down to $30 from $49. 
Two and a half years later, Ms. Vigliotti's sharp wit and sense of fun -- as well as her bargain prices -- are still the central components of the Boom Boom Brow Bar's appeal. Her clients, who arrive steadily and often, attribute their loyalty to the casual atmosphere that Ms. Vigliotti, 39, has created around the otherwise awkward setting of ripping and plucking.
Scrunched into a drab block of Seventh Avenue in the West Village, the 250-square-foot space would go unnoticed if not for the standing-room-only gaggle and the disco ball shimmering through its front window. Inside, the decor of thrift-store treasures channels a kitsch from the golden age of Hollywood and adds to the general air of a friend's boudoir: black fringed lampshades, a tiger-patterned rug, fuchsia patent pleather stools and a claw-foot bathtub settee modeled after Holly Golightly's in ''Breakfast at Tiffany's'' (and often occupied by The Baby, Ms. Vigliotti's divalike silky terrier, whom she calls her ''maitre d' ''). Gilded chandeliers festooned with thong underwear cast a dappled light.
Walk-ins are welcomed, and the prices ($20 for brows, $10 for upper lip) are the same whether Ms. Vigliotti or one of her five ''glamour technicians'' wield the stick coated in her proprietary purple wax. Most clients -- except for those brave souls getting waxed ''downtown,'' as the bikini line is known in Boom Boom's lingo -- receive their treatments sitting on stools in sight of everyone else. ''Sometimes even I am still amazed,'' Ms. Vigliotti said, ''that someone will submit to having her chin hair removed in a window on Seventh Avenue.''
In the hair-removal business, clients need to feel relaxed, and the talk therapy that comes free with every visit does the trick. Ms. Vigliotti, a West Village resident, knows most returning customers by sight and many by name. As soon as someone enters, she beckons them in her Long Island twang: ''Come to Mama. We're going to get you gorgeous.'' Eyelashes are tinted and male unibrows abolished while she asks eagerly about jobs and vacation plans, family members and fashion tips. The rest of the room chimes in.
''It's like a constant taping of 'The View,' '' Ms. Vigliotti said. Or, as a husband waiting for his wife on a Saturday afternoon put it, ''It's like the antithesis of Andy Rooney in here'' -- no curmudgeons and no untended arches.
But Boom Boom is strict with overpluckers. The $38 ''Brow Rehab'' service includes tinting to remedy sparse brows and a lecture on leaving the plucking to the professionals. Eavesdropping on snatches of these conversations -- ''Let's be hopeful,'' ''You are in crisis,'' ''You're just not ready yet'' -- one would think one had stepped into Brow Abusers Anonymous. ''I'm into real brows, real beauty,'' Ms. Vigliotti said. ''I want the best for people.''
Finishing up a wax on a Friday night, Ms. Vigliotti tapped a client on the knee. ''You're all good, baby,'' she said. Rousing from a snooze on the bathtub's purple upholstery, The Baby lifted his furry head and ears. ''Not you,'' Ms. Vigliotti said, cackling. ''Geesh, that dog is the biggest narcissist in this place.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAIR REMOVAL SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DOGS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



589 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: I Resolve. World, Don't Fail Me Now.

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
GAZING into the camera, a smoky-eyed teenager known as glamourista16 confessed to the YouTube masses: ''My friend got me addicted to chipotle and I cannot stop.''
Glamourista16 hardly looks as if she ingests copious amounts of braised carnitas and yet: ''I ate it three times last week,'' she said. So began a nearly five-minute video about her New Year's resolution to stop indulging in fast food -- which in recent weeks has been viewed more than 38,000 times.
Thousands of these New Year's resolution videos are being uploaded to YouTube. At the same time, Facebook, Twitter and other social media sites like 43Things are riddled with posts about promises to run marathons, learn Spanish and floss teeth. And while announcing your goals to all the world may just seem like the latest cyber-narcissism, it can be an effective achievement technique: economists say people who make their resolutions public are far more likely to fulfill them. 
''It increases the price of failure,'' said Dean Karlan, an economics professor at Yale. That price can refer to the psychic cost of failing (how badly you'll feel about yourself), or the social-embarrassment cost of failing (how badly everyone else will make you feel). But just in case that doesn't light a fire under you, there's StickK.com which puts an actual price on failure.
StickK (the capital K is legal-writing shorthand for contract) was born of a simple behavioral economic principle: people are more likely to achieve their goals if they stake their reputations -- or their bank accounts -- on success. To use the site, the resolute enter their goals, put money on the line (entering credit card information up front, though it's charged only upon failure) and designate where the money will go if they don't succeed. A user might select a favorite charity or -- for perverse added incentive -- a charity they would never support. They then pick a person to be a referee (to verify that they actually shed those five pounds) and choose others as virtual cheerleaders.
There are more than 63,000 StickK contracts -- and more than $5.9 million at stake (wagering is optional). Peruse the site and you'll find perennial resolutions about exercise and money management, but also gems like ''no more dating losers,'' ''quit Dr Pepper'' and ''speak more slowly to foreigners in New York City.''
''There's a lot about pornography,'' added Professor Karlan, a founder of StickK along with Ian Ayres, a law professor at Yale; and Jordan Goldberg, a student at Yale School of Management. Professor Karlan's latest resolution? To edit his slides after each university lecture. He stands to lose $3,250 if he fails.
While StickK applies to all kinds of goals, sites for specific resolutions abound. For a would-be hard body, there's PEERtrainer.com. A procrastinating writer can go to 750Words.com. Smokers have DeterminedToQuit.com. These are the digital descendants of offline programs like Weight Watchers and Alcoholics Anonymous, which successfully use the power of group support. PEERtrainer, for example, has coaches who check in with people who join the site's various specialized groups, like yoga devotees or people striving to whittle away their muffin tops. The Web site goes so far as to point out that sometimes, strangers are the ones who have your best interest in mind. It poses the question: ''Is your friend secretly happier that she's the thinner one who gets more attention?''
Certainly, you don't need cyberspace to share your resolutions. But the potential humiliation of failure is more potent online. Social networking sites also enable you to formalize and, in many cases, regularly track your goals, which makes it harder to blow them off. Some sites reward you with a badge on your Facebook page or a congratulatory message. Nearly every site makes it easy to tell friends about your ambitions as well as to help find strangers who share your goals. The latter is useful if you don't want to discuss your resolutions with friends and family.
''Goals are such a personal thing,'' said Leezel Martin, 29, an office manager in San Diego who uses 43Things.com, a goal-listing site. ''It makes people feel vulnerable. A lot of my friends don't yet even know I'm on this site. You start getting judged.''
More than 192,000 people have made public their resolutions for this year on 43Things, including Rick Steves, a travel writer and television personality, and Tony Hsieh, chief executive of Zappos. While anyone browsing the site can see Ms. Martin's goals, she said it's different from directly telling her friends about her intentions. ''Here on 43Things I have a community of people who are like-minded,'' she said. ''Everyone just cheers you on.'' This week she completed her No. 1 goal: auditioning for the role of Audrey in a community theater production of ''Little Shop of Horrors.'' ''This is something I could never admit to my friends,'' Ms. Martin said.
Josh Petersen, chief executive of 43Things.com, said that this year he's aiming to understand and reduce his utility bill, read at least a dozen books and visit another continent. Running marathons, losing weight and saving money are some of the most popular resolutions on the site, but you can search for resolutions unique to your city. ''New Yorkers are just like everyone else,'' Mr. Petersen said. ''They want to get a tattoo, write a book and fall in love.''
Of all the ways to make your goals public, the least anonymous is video.
''YouTube users are using it to reinforce the resolutions,'' said Kevin Allocca, the site's trends manager. Lately he's observed the emergence of a resolutions video subgenre: grocery-haul videos. Haul videos typically showcase what someone accumulated at the mall: clothes, accessories, cosmetics, gadgets. Grocery haul videos highlight what someone has acquired at Pathmark or Stop & Shop. It's one way for people who have resolved to eat better or save money to document their progress. Other YouTube users film New Year's ''weight diaries,'' Mr. Allocca said, which takes nerve because on sites like Twitter and StickK, ''nobody has to see you when you're doing it.''
Underscoring the age in which we live, many YouTube members said their resolution is to post even more videos this year. ''Sometimes I'll go like six days without a video,'' Blair Fowler, 17, said on her resolutions video, under JuicyStar07, which has been viewed more than 981,000 times.
Whatever your New Year's resolution, revealing it on a networking site may give you what you need to succeed.
Unless, of course, you've resolved to spend less time online.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY THOMAS FUCHS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); CHARITIES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); PORNOGRAPHY (69%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); MARATHONS (54%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



590 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: In California, E.V. Charging Isn't So Cheap

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
IN the state of California, which of these cars would be the most economical to own and operate?
a) Nissan Leaf 
b) Chevrolet Volt
c) Toyota Prius plug-in hybrid
d) Chevrolet Cobalt
According to a new Purdue University energy study, owning any kind of electric car in California may end up costing a shocking (pun intended) amount. The advantage goes to the Cobalt and its internal combustion engine.
That could be the case even if the electric car is recharged at night, when rates are lower (a situation that auto companies are quick to promote).
What gives? California electric utilities have been approved for ''tiered'' plans that permit them to impose higher rates on customers who exceed typical household levels of energy use. For customers of utilities that have adopted such plans, charging an electric car practically guarantees admission to this club.
The original rationale for such tiered pricing was to encourage conservation, but now there is also the unintended consequence of punishing those who buy E.V.'s and recharge them at home.
The utilities are reportedly studying ways to charge electric cars on separate meters, which would have to be installed at owners' homes. But nobody seems in a big hurry to change the system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



591 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Betting on Green, Mitsubishi to Park 3 Models

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
LOOKING to jump-start its stalled American car sales and meet environmental targets around the world, Mitsubishi is placing a big bet on electricity. Under a global plan announced Thursday, the company will offer six new plug-in hybrid and battery-electric models by 2015. 
Mitsubishi's American unit will drop three slow-selling models by 2013: the Galant midsize sedan, the Eclipse sporty coupe and the Endeavor S.U.V. In their place, Mitsubishi will offer some of the smaller hybrid and electric models, which will also be aimed at developing markets.
The Japanese automaker will sell its first electric car in America, the Mitsubishi i, this November, starting in Hawaii, California and other Western states. That four-seat city car -- known as the i-MiEV in other markets -- will offer a roughly 70 mile range for under $30,000, not counting tax incentives that can chop thousands off the price.
Moe Durand, a Mitsubishi spokesman, said the drastic lineup shift would let the company focus its resources entirely on compact, or smaller, models. He said the Eclipse, Galant and Endeavor, which are currently built at Mitsubishi's plant in Normal, Ill., were too large to be exported successfully to foreign markets, including China.
Combining small-footprint cars with electrification is a natural strategy, Mr. Durand said. He added that clean-diesel technology -- especially expensive exhaust-treatment systems -- was too expensive to install profitably on smaller, more affordable cars. ''It seems the only way to meet regulatory targets in several markets is to aggressively leverage battery technology,'' he said.
The Mitsubishi brand arrived in the United States in 1982 -- though Chrysler had previously rebadged Mitsubishi cars and trucks as Dodges and Plymouths -- and within two decades grew into a serious competitor. From 5,200 cars in its initial year, the company peaked in 2002 with 345,000 sales, or 2 percent of the market, according to J. D. Power & Associates.
Then came a free-fall: sales and market share fell by half within two years. J. D. Power analysts noted that after the company marketed aggressively to young buyers, loan default rates shot up and sales dropped as credit standards tightened.
Once-solid models like the Eclipse coupe fell behind the competition, and the company's burly S.U.V.'s fell out of fashion. Last year, Mitsubishi sold fewer than 56,000 vehicles, less than 0.5 percent of the market.
Meanwhile, the Normal plant has limped along. Although it has the capacity to build nearly a quarter-million cars a year, it has recently turned out just 30,000 to 40,000.
Yet while the plant will lose its current products, its workers will be spared for now. At least one of Mitsubishi's compact models -- the Lancer sedan and hatchback and the Outlander and Outlander Sport crossovers -- will be built in Illinois. Mitsubishi will announce its choice in February; the Outlander Sport appears to be a leading candidate because of its potential international appeal.
Driving enthusiasts can also breathe easy: the Evolution, a powerful all-wheel-drive rally-style car that has a huge cult following, will remain part of the Lancer lineup.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BATTERIES INCLUDED: The Mitsubishi i, an electric city car, goes on sale in the West in late 2011. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); MARKET SHARE (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



592 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; FIRST GLANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: New Commercial Van From Nissan

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
NISSAN entered the North American market for full-size commercial vans on Thursday as it began production in Mississippi of the 2012 NV series.
The boxy NV seeks to penetrate a sizable, if easily overlooked, chunk of the light-vehicle market that has long been dominated by the Ford E-Series and the Chevrolet Express. In recent years, Daimler has carved out a slice of this market with the Sprinter, sold under both the Mercedes-Benz and Freightliner brand names.
The NV is produced at the Nissan assembly plant in Canton, Miss., that also builds the Altima sedan, Titan full-size pickup and Armada sport utility vehicle. The plant, which opened in 2003, has undergone a two-year, $118 million expansion to accommodate production of the big van. The factory has the capacity to make a total of 400,000 vehicles a year. 
The rear-drive NV -- with body-on-frame architecture, like most trucks -- is scheduled to go on sale in the spring at a base price at $25,570. Buyers can choose among three versions, two engines and two roof configurations. The basic NV1500 comes with a V-6 engine only. The NV2500 HD comes with a V-6 or V-8, and the NV3500 HD has a V-8 only.
Nissan has been in the commercial vehicle business overseas for 75 years, said Joe Castelli, vice president for commercial vehicles; those vehicles accounted for a fifth of the company's global sales last year, he added. Although Nissan sells full-size vans elsewhere, Mr. Castelli said the NV was a new vehicle on a new platform, sharing only a single frame cross-member with the Titan.
''This is a unique vehicle. Our market is so much different than the streets of Paris or Tokyo,'' Mr. Castelli said. ''Our customer tends to like big horsepower, torque, payload.''
The NV, like its competitors, is substantially larger and heavier than the Ford TransitConnect, a Euro-style van that is increasingly seen making deliveries in large American cities. Since 2009, Nissan's NV200, a car-based van smaller than the new NV, has directly competed overseas with the TransitConnect. Nissan has not announced whether it will bring the NV200 to North America.
Although Nissan would not say how many full-size vans it hoped to sell in the United States and Canada, Mr. Castelli said the company did not intend to be a minor player.
From 2000 until the economic downturn of 2008-9, about 350,000 full-size commercial vans were sold annually in the United States, according to Jeff Schuster, executive director for automotive forecasting at J. D. Power & Associates.
J. D. Power projects sales of the NV to be in the low- to mid-20,000 range and considers it to be, like the Sprinter, a secondary player.
''Could it outperform those numbers? Sure,'' Mr. Schuster said. ''But there is a limited market, and those buyers have been conditioned to look at Chevy and Ford.''
The NV's cargo floor is 120 inches long and 70.2 inches wide. Like the Sprinter, the NV comes with either a standard roof (55.8 inches high) or a high roof (76.9 inches) that permits contractors to stand and move about in the cargo area. The high-roofed NV starts at $28,970.
Neither the Ford E-Series nor the Chevy Express offers a high roof, and Mr. Castelli noted that the NV was ''thousands of dollars cheaper'' than the Sprinter, which starts at $36,990.
To keep prices low, many features -- like special windows, side air bags and Bluetooth connectivity -- are optional. Also optional is a lockable console box with a business card holder, a compartment for hanging files and space for a laptop.
The NV's 4-liter V-6 is rated at 261 horsepower and 281 pound-feet of torque. The E-Series doesn't offer a V-6, although the Express does.
Nissan's 5.6-liter V-8 is rated at 317 horsepower and 385 pound-feet of torque. These engines, as well as the 5-speed automatic transmission, are shared with other Nissan trucks.
The NV also shares its front-end styling with those trucks.
''It's not a snub-nose van,'' Mr. Castelli said. Indeed, the high-roof version looks as if the nose of a Titan truck had been grafted onto a Sprinter van. Having a long hood like a pickup means the engine doesn't intrude into the interior -- and makes the engine easier to service.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BIG BOX: Nissan NV van in high roof, above, and standard, bottom left, configurations. Production has begun in Mississippi. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SEDANS (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (74%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (50%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



593 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 29B

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: A Great TV Series Set in Texas? Sorry, You're Canceled

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER KELLY. 
Christopher Kelly is a film critic for The Fort Worth Star-Telegram.

 BODY:
It was supposed to be a watershed season for television production in Texas. While the Austin-based NBC drama ''Friday Night Lights'' was wrapping production on its final season, four new series set in the Lone Star State got network green lights, including three whose productions would be based in the Dallas-Fort Worth area.
Flash forward a couple of months, though, and those series began falling like dominoes: Fox's well-reviewed con-man drama ''Lone Star'' had its premiere in September, drew embarrassing ratings and was canceled after two episodes. A week later, ABC dropped the ax on ''My Generation,'' also after two episodes. And although Fox allowed another series, the tepidly received cops and robbers comedy ''The Good Guys,'' to finish its 20-episode run in December, it was not renewed. 
The last domino standing is the Jerry Bruckheimer-produced crime drama ''Chase'' on NBC, which returned Wednesday after a six-week hiatus. Considering its new, unenviable time slot opposite ''American Idol'' and ''Modern Family,'' few expect it to hang around much longer.
''There's no question there's a sense of disappointment,'' said Don Stokes, president of the Texas Motion Picture Alliance, which works to bolster film production. ''These shows generated a huge amount of work for Texans and vendors within the state.''
The economic impact of a network series is considerable. Mr. Stokes said a single episode was estimated to inject upward of a million dollars into a local economy. Multiply that figure by 20 (the average number of episodes in a full season of a network series) and then multiply that by 4 (the number of series that if ''Chase'' is also canceled will not have made it), and you're looking at a potential loss of close to $100 million in Texas.
Paradoxically, the television failures come at a time when feature film production, mainstream and independent, is flourishing in the state. The Coen brothers' ''True Grit,'' which was shot in several small towns outside Austin (as well as in New Mexico), is considered a front-runner in this year's Oscar race. ''Benavides Born,'' a drama shot in Austin and throughout South Texas, had its premiere Saturday at the Sundance Film Festival. In May, the director Terrence Malick will finally unveil ''The Tree of Life,'' a long-awaited film starring Brad Pitt and Sean Penn that was shot in and around Austin in 2008 and 2009.
Yet while feature films are often seen as more prestigious, television shows bring in more money and can keep locals employed for years, as was the case with ''Walker, Texas Ranger,'' which ran for eight seasons on CBS from 1993 to 2001.
''I think Texas productions are well regarded for getting things done on an economical budget, and that's the reputation we're going to build on moving forward,'' said Evan E. Fitzmaurice, the interim director of the Texas Film Commission, the government body that works to entice producers to film here.
After arguing for many years that Texas was losing money and jobs to neighboring states, the film commission and the Motion Picture Alliance succeeded in persuading the State Legislature to pass a more inviting incentive package in 2007. Productions are now rewarded with substantial rebates and tax discounts provided that they spend at least $250,000 here and that at least 70 percent of the cast and crew is composed of Texans.
But with financing up for review in an austere legislative session, and with hopes for the watershed year dashed, the fear is that some state lawmakers may turn off the tap.
Mr. Fitzmaurice is quick to bat away such concerns. He points to a pilot for Lifetime Television called ''Meet Jane,'' which recently completed production in Austin, as evidence of the continuing health of Texas-based TV production. (The network has not announced whether the pilot will be picked up for a full-season run.)
''Some things work out. Some things don't,'' Mr. Fitzmaurice said. ''The hope is that we can keep enough things in the mix and that something will hit.''
As for why none of this season's shows struck a chord with audiences, even the experts seem a little puzzled. '' 'Lone Star' was probably the best-reviewed show of the fall season, but it just arrived D.O.A.,'' said Ed Bark, a former critic for The Dallas Morning News who now blogs about television at unclebarky.com. ''It didn't matter if it was filmed in Dallas or Alaska. For whatever reason, it didn't resonate.''
Yet Mr. Bark wonders if there might be a larger perception problem at play. After all, the one thing that ''The Good Guys,'' ''Chase,'' ''My Generation'' and ''Lone Star'' have in common is that they all offer a relatively modern vision of Texas, mostly free of the rural hicks and slimy oil barons of ''Walker, Texas Ranger'' or ''Dallas.'' Could it be that even as the state attracts forward-looking productions, the rest of the country still looks upon Texas in antiquated terms?
''When they think of shows filmed in Texas, they usually don't think that's going to be a smart, intelligent, upscale drama,'' Mr. Bark said. ''There's sort of a built-in subtraction of I.Q. points when people think Texas.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NBC's ''Friday Night Lights,'' above, is in its final season. Below, James Wolk starred in Fox's ''Lone Star,'' which lasted two episodes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL RECORDS/NBC
 BILL MATLOCK/FOX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); FAMILY (66%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: JERRY BRUCKHEIMER (58%); BRAD PITT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (98%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



594 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: How My Assistant Saved the Day

BYLINE: By BRIAN OLIVERSMITH

 BODY:
IN May 2008, I started Urban Planet Mobile, which provides English language lessons over cellphones. Our customers include people whose first language is Mandarin, Hindi, Japanese, Thai, Arabic or Bengali, among others. In the United States, we offer test preparation over cellphones, and other companies hire us to offer health tips and so forth by phone.
The first person I hired was an executive assistant, Chrissy, to take care of billing and travel arrangements, and to schedule interviews with Web site developers, voice actors and contract employees. I also asked her to research possible markets for our product. There's an awful lot to do in starting a company. I thought that if I hired someone who could handle the details and the chaos, I could go faster. 
People who employ assistants become spoiled. You become accustomed to being able to ask: ''Can you do a spreadsheet on X? Can you book me a flight to Y?''
When I worked in a sales organization, I hired my own assistant and paid her out of my own pocket. I couldn't keep up with the paperwork and still perform at the level I wanted to. I'm high-energy and generate a long to-do list, so I need someone detail-oriented to keep it all organized.
Six months after I started the company, the financial crisis hit and my funders pulled out. I had to pull back financially and try to cut costs. I asked employees if they wanted to go part time for a while before I was forced to lay them off. At our peak, we had 10 employees, including my wife, Catherine, who is my founding partner and our editor. We had thought we'd have to lay off everyone but the two of us, but we were able to keep two others.
Chrissy stayed for 30 days and then found another job. Suddenly, I had to do everything she had been doing. The business had slowed because of the economy, so there were fewer administrative tasks. But without Chrissy, we had to stop researching markets. We focused on shorter-term results. I did everything I could to be as efficient as possible, using QuickBooks for accounting and a contact management database. I also bought online backup so I didn't have to back up files manually.
Not all managerial jobs require an assistant, and not everyone can delegate. But for a manager who has too much to do and is comfortable delegating, hiring an assistant can change his or her life. A friend of mine had the same assistant for 10 years. Managers seem to have the best results when they respect the position. It is not an entry-level job; assistants have valued skill sets.
An assistant can be a lifesaver in a crisis. After Chrissy left, my travel bag was stolen four days before I was to leave for China. It contained my laptop, my passport and my visa. I got an older computer and restored my files from backup, and I flew to San Francisco to get a new passport and visa in a day. But if I'd had an assistant at the time, he or she would have gone into emergency mode to help, and I could have put together information sheets and press kits.
Chrissy would have also remembered to pack our company banner for the trade show we were attending in Asia. Since I had forgotten to pack it, when I arrived in China I had to ask a guy who sublet office space from us to ship it, and he sent it to the wrong place. I had to have another one made and have it sent by express mail.
I'm doing the filing now, and I haven't filed anything since the holidays. Before that, I hadn't done it since July. I know where everything is now, but I spend an awful lot of time even deciding what to file, scan or shred. At times it can be frustrating, and some nights I get just a few hours of sleep.
The only upside I've found in not having an assistant is that because I now handle every task, I know immediately where every penny goes. I checked expenses before, but I'm now more aware of what I'm spending, and I cut costs where I can. Once I saw how much it was costing to supply employees with bottled water and soda, for example, I asked them to buy their own.
In November, my chief technology officer and I went to Bangkok, Jakarta and Hong Kong, then back to the United States. The airfare cost $3,700 for both of us, and I made all the arrangements. I was so proud of myself, especially for getting such a good price. I've learned that I can manage on my own if I have to, and I actually like the challenges.
So I'm torn. I've been going through the motions of hiring an executive assistant for a year and a half now. We're up to 12 employees, though that includes some part-time and contract workers. I really want another assistant, but every time I think of spending that money, I decide to pour it back into the business. One minute I'm frazzled and say I can't do all the work by myself anymore. The next minute I'm fine.
Recently, I hired someone for two days a week, but she works for others in the company, too. In two days, she leveled our piles of papers, organized our receipts and set up recycling stations. I could really get used to this again.
As told to Patricia R. Olsen. E-mail: preoccupations@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brian OliverSmith of Urban Planet Mobile in Durham, N.C., is currently without a full-time assistant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (59%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



595 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING ON FOURTH AVENUE, BROOKLYN; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: New Cityscape, in Search of Green Space

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
THE bad news first: Walking down the northern stretch of Fourth Avenue in Brooklyn, you will still have to squint very hard to see it as the borough's version of Park Avenue in Manhattan. That comparison, which boosters have been making in recent years as the corridor has come to life, is still aspirational -- especially so against the backdrop of taxi depots and gas stations that still make up much of the streetscape.
The good news: Fourth Avenue has better skyline views and easier-to-reach subway stations than the object of its envy in Manhattan, as well as a growing string of bars and cafes. In any case, supporters mainly invoke Park Avenue because of Fourth Avenue's width and medians -- though trees are scarce. In truth, the corridor is hard to compare even to the adjacent neighborhoods of Boerum Hill, Gowanus and Park Slope. The avenue has developed its own character -- and that, some of its hundreds of new residents say, is just fine. 
Its defining event, so far, was a rezoning that allowed construction of buildings up to 12 stories tall, in exchange for capping heights in the rest of Park Slope. Developers responded with a string of tall residential projects, roughly bounded by Atlantic Avenue to the north and the Prospect Expressway to the south. Some opened quickly; others were delayed by the economy. Now, people in the area say, enough new residents have arrived to make Fourth Avenue feel like a changed place.
Michael Cairl, the president of the Park Slope Civic Council, called the avenue his neighborhood's next frontier, though it is generally considered Park Slope's western border.
''Things are changing in small ways and in big ways,'' Mr. Cairl said. ''We're looking at how we might introduce more trees to the street. We're very encouraged at how many businesses, primarily restaurants and bars, are choosing to open on Fourth Avenue. Clearly there's a demand, and a real Fourth Avenue community is emerging.''
Two new members of that community, as of August, are Charlotte Yan Whitney and her husband, Mark, who bought a one-bedroom condominium in the Argyle Park Slope, a 60-unit building at 251 Seventh Street, on the Gowanus side of the avenue.
The couple, who moved from the East Village, looked elsewhere in Brooklyn, Ms. Whitney, 32, said. What brought them to Fourth Avenue, she said, was convenience -- to her husband's computer-programming job in Gowanus, and to the subway that runs under Fourth Avenue and stops at Ninth Street, getting her to work in Lower Manhattan in just over 20 minutes.
The traffic outside their window, and the vibrations from the R train under the avenue, can be distracting, she said. But Park Slope's restaurants, on Fifth Avenue, are a short walk away, and Prospect Park is easily reachable on warm weekends. The couple paid around $400,000, Ms. Whitney said, and they may soon be looking again, as she is expecting a baby in February.
''That would be the only thing to maybe have us move,'' she said. ''But as long as my husband's job is in this area, and we're along some good subways, we probably won't move far.''
They are optimistic, too, she said, that new residents will further enliven the area. Besides established buildings like the Novo Park Slope, at Fifth Street, and the Crest, at Second Street, newcomers include 500 Fourth Avenue, with 156 units, and 560 Carroll Street, with 44.
Joseph DiFiore, a broker with Awaye Realty in Carroll Gardens, said that with each new building the avenue's popularity had grown. ''They're hard to get started, it's hard to sell to the first people,'' he said. ''But all of a sudden, once people see other people living there, it's pop-pop-pop, like popcorn.''
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
The avenue, Mr. Cairl said, has several distinct sections. The part from Pacific to Union Street has the busiest nightlife; from Union to Third Street, there are larger old buildings and former industrial properties; and south of Third Street, the adjoining blocks form a quiet zone of row houses.
He said community groups were making progress. At Sackett Street, the city Department of Environmental Protection is in talks about setting aside part of a large empty lot it owns for community uses like a garden. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, with financial help from the borough president's office, is moving toward reopening a long-shut second entrance to the subway station at Fourth Avenue and Ninth Street. That would save hundreds of commuters from having to cross the busy avenue each day.
Craig Hammerman, the district manager of Community Board 6, which represents the area, said the board had a longstanding budget request for improvements to the medians, including plantings and protective bollards.
Improvements to the drainage system will be slower in coming, he said. Being near the bottom of the hill that gives Park Slope its name, Fourth Avenue has tended to flood in heavy rains. At Carroll Street, the owners of the Root Hill Cafe installed concrete flood barriers after a storm brought water several feet deep. A new city drainage plan is in the works, Mr. Hammerman said; but it's probably years away.
Finally, he cited efforts to overcome one failure of the avenue's rezoning: At the time, developers were not required to build ground-floor retail space, which he said had left some new buildings with troublesome dead zones out front.
Difficulties aside, agents at newer buildings say they are seeing strong demand, in part because condos are rare in the overall area. Karen Smith of Prudential Douglas Elliman, the sales director at 500 Fourth Avenue, said the building was more than half sold, with Upper West Side buyers drawn by the proximity to Prospect Park. At 560 Carroll, which started selling in December, Deborah Rieders of the Corcoran Group said she had a long waiting list; many are drawn to the expansive view of Manhattan beyond low-rise Gowanus.
''It's not like living right on top of the park, as far as your curb appeal is concerned,'' Ms. Rieders said. But she added that even if ''center Slope is more beautiful, in terms of its tree-lined-ness,'' Fourth Avenue's transportation ''has always been a pretty big draw.''
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
At the two new buildings, and for the remaining units in the Argyle, prices for one-bedrooms range from just over $400,000 to more than $600,000. Two-bedrooms list for $700,000 to $900,000; three-bedrooms, depending on the building, approach or exceed $1 million.
Ms. Rieders says prices per square foot at 560 Carroll range from $550 to $950, depending on floor, size, layout and view. In any building, views west, toward Manhattan, cost more.
Rentals are available, too, both new and old. At 126 Fourth Avenue, a rental near Baltic Street, two-bedrooms have gone for $2,500 to $3,000 a month, one-bedrooms for closer to $2,000. Units on Craigslist can come a bit cheaper: a recent scan showed one-bedrooms on the avenue at $1,700 and up.
THE SCHOOLS
The northern stretch of Fourth Avenue passes through several school districts; the side of the street also dictates the school zone. Among primary schools on the avenue is Public School 124, between 13th and 14th Streets, where last year 48.1 percent met state standards in English, 57.9 percent in math. Middle schools include No. 447, on Dean Street between Third and Fourth, where 74.1 percent met standards in English, 83.8 percent in math. The Brooklyn High School of the Artsshares a building with the middle school. SAT averages last year were 416 in reading, 417 in math and 425 in writing, versus 439, 462 and 434 citywide.
WHAT TO DO
In addition to the dozens of nightlife options nearby on Fifth Avenue in Park Slope, there are more attractions than ever in Gowanus. The Bell House, a concert site on Seventh Street between Second and Third Avenues, has a new neighbor, the nightclub Ultraviolet. On Fourth Avenue itself, destinations include Cafe 474 and Root Hill for coffee, the Rock Shop for live music, and the Fourth Avenue Pub and Mission Dolores -- in a converted auto-repair shop -- for drinks.
Green space is in short supply, though Washington Park, between Third and Fourth Streets, has handball courts and a new artificial turf field, and Prospect Park is not a bad walk uphill, for the motivated. One day a year in November, Fourth Avenue offers some of the liveliest viewing spots in town for the New York City Marathon.
THE COMMUTE
The R train runs locally. The N, the express train on the same line, stops at Pacific Street before continuing on to Sunset Park. The F and G trains also serve the area.
The avenue is wide and inviting for drivers, though rush-hour traffic can be slow. The Prospect Expressway offers quick access to the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel, and the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway is not far to the west.
THE HISTORY
Fourth Avenue has been a street, in one form or another, since Brooklyn was founded. The area near the present-day Washington Park was pivotal in the aftermath of the Revolutionary Battle of Brooklyn; just over a century later, the Brooklyn Dodgers played some of their earliest games on the same land.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OLD, YOUNG The entrance to Root Hill, a coffeehouse on Fourth Avenue, combines sleekness with an industrial edge. On a rapidly changing thoroughfare, those elements set the tone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILY ANNE EPSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); GAS STATIONS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); ZONING (67%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (67%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



596 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Where Budget Gaps, and People, Are Few

BYLINE: By BILL MARSH

 BODY:
Among all the bad news about state budgets, there are four bright spots: North Dakota, Alaska, Arkansas, Wyoming. Those are the only states -- home to less than 2 percent of the nation's population -- that say they can balance their budgets for the 2012 fiscal year without slashing spending or raising revenues. 
The recession brought at least 44 others another year of sometimes staggering gaps between the amount of money flowing into state treasuries and the amount flowing out.
Overall tax revenue is still about 12 percent lower than it was before the recession started. So most states are bracing for a fresh round of spending cuts, even after several years of sometimes drastic cutting, according to a bleak tally issued last week by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. (Delaware and Alabama still haven't reported whether they will get enough revenue to avoid cuts or tax increases.)
The four states in the black can offer little advice. Their recipe for financial health has two key ingredients: no housing bust, and (except for Arkansas) a robust energy industry.
Energy-rich states build up rainy-day reserves when prices spike, as oil did in the previous decade. And during the speculative home-building boom, Fargo was no Las Vegas.
If there is one state for the others to envy, it is North Dakota, with the lowest unemployment rate in the nation -- 3.8 percent, amid a labor shortage -- and a comfortable cash surplus, thanks in part to a growing petroleum industry. It is the only state that has not had a shortfall in the last four budget years.
''Its economy wasn't hit as hard as others,'' said Elizabeth McNichol, a senior fellow at the center. ''Their surplus gave them a very significant cushion.''
Not all balanced budgets are signs of prosperity. Arkansas is in the black, and the state's unemployment rate is 7.9 percent, better than the national 9.4 percent. But its tight budget means that there will be little or no growth in social services spending. A 2009 law making about 20,000 more children eligible for ARKids First, a health insurance program for the poor, may be abandoned.
Every unhappy state is unhappy in its own way. But for most, the drop in personal and corporate income tax revenues has devastated budgeting. This is where the four fiscal standouts have some protection, according to Dan White, an economist at Moody's Analytics.
Smaller states with smaller corporate sectors tend to rely less on income taxes, he said, insulating them a bit better from the effects of this recession. Other taxes, especially those on energy extraction, keep flowing in good times and bad.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At right, an oil drilling rig near Stanley, N.D. Energy wealth has helped keep that state in the black longer than any other (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN BLEIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE--GETTY IMAGES) CHART: States Coming Up Short (Source: Center on Budget and Policy Priorities) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); MEDICAID (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (66%); CORPORATE TAX (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FARGO, ND, USA (58%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



597 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: For Vallejo, Bankruptcy Isn't Exactly a Fresh Start

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
JonathanWeberis the editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Vallejo, which delivered a wake-up call to municipalities around the country when it filed for bankruptcy protection in 2008, outlined in court papers last week how it plans to get back on its feet, financially speaking. For residents, the plan makes for grim reading. And if you're a public official or taxpayer who's hoping that bankruptcy might be a way to solve your city's financial problems, it will surely prompt you to think twice.
People think of bankruptcy as a way to wipe the slate clean of old obligations, but that's only half true. Yes, it's sometimes possible for businesses, individuals and governments to eliminate some -- even most -- debts through bankruptcy. But as Vallejo's case underscores, the real point of bankruptcy isn't to let a debtor walk away but rather to force a negotiation between debtors and creditors. 
Those negotiations, and the litigation that often goes with them, are now mostly concluded in the Vallejo case, and the city hopes that the formal restructuring plan it just submitted will let it emerge from bankruptcy by summer.
Municipal bankruptcy -- and, as The New York Times reported on Friday, a Republican-led effort in Washington to allow states to file some kind of bankruptcy -- is increasingly on politicians' radar as a way to break what are perceived as sweetheart contracts with public employee unions and cancel sometimes-lavish pension deals.
But Chapter 9 of the bankruptcy code, which covers municipal bankruptcy, is rarely used, and it's not entirely clear what it does and doesn't allow. (Many states don't even allow municipalities to file.)
In Vallejo, the four unions representing city employees claimed that California law protected their contracts, but the bankruptcy court ultimately ruled that the city could cancel its collective bargaining agreements. That, in turn, forced the unions to agree to deals that they would not have accepted otherwise.
The city has cut retiree health benefits from $1,500 to $300 a month and stopped making payouts on accrued leave time.
But pension plans for retirees and current city employees, including one that allows police officers to retire at 50 with as much as 90 percent of their pay, remain untouched. The city chose not to test whether messing with pensions would be allowed even in bankruptcy, and so remains on the hook for some $195 million in unfinanced pension liabilities.
Meanwhile, much of the savings in the renegotiated union contracts come from severe work-force reductions: the police department is down to 90 sworn officers from 155 in 2003, and the fire department was slashed from 122 people and 8 firehouses to 70 people and 5 firehouses.
When voters complain about bloated government payrolls, I'd wager that taking an ax to the police and fire departments is not the solution they have in mind.
Now consider the $225 million in debt currently on Vallejo's books. The bulk is owed by special districts, mainly the water authority, and is unaffected by the bankruptcy case. Only about $50 million in city obligations, mainly lease payments on buildings, will actually be restructured, with a net ''present value'' savings of around 40 percent.
Meanwhile, even a cursory look at the city's finances makes it clear that a huge part of the problem has nothing to do with payrolls or pensions or bond debt. Rather, it has to do with revenue: city tax collections plummeted from $83 million in 2007-08 to $65 million in the most recent fiscal year, a result of the recession and the housing bust. Housing values have fallen an astonishing 67 percent.
So Vallejo stumbles forward: with minimal public safety services, a skeleton crew for road repairs, deferred maintenance on everything, and no money for ''extras'' like parks, libraries and senior centers. That will change only when -- if? -- revenues begin to climb.
Assuming the bankruptcy plan is approved, the city will have saved some money and shed some long-term obligations. But when you consider the $8 million and counting in legal fees, three years of angry litigation and uncertainty, the millions that contractors, city employees and retirees will lose (they stand to collect only 5 to 20 cents on the dollar for their claims), and the hit to the city's reputation that will likely impair business growth (and tax collections) for years, it hardly looks like a victory.
Thinking about bankruptcy as a solution to your city's financial troubles? There has to be a better way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (86%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); POLITICS (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (69%); LABOR FORCE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



598 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: Prime Number

 BODY:
11.9: The percentage of American workers in unions last year, the lowest proportion in more than 70 years, according to the government's Bureau of Labor Statistics. The number of workers in unions fell by 612,000 last year, to 14.7 million. About 20 percent of workers were in unions in 1983; the figure was 35 percent during the mid-1950s, according to labor historians. Last year ''was a very tough year for unionized workers,'' said John Schmitt, a senior economist with the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington. ''We're seeing declines in the private sector, and we're seeing declines in the public sector.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); STATISTICS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); HISTORY (83%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



599 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SCENE STEALER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Product Placement, Turned Inside Out

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
PARK CITY, Utah
MORGAN SPURLOCK, the documentarian who eviscerated McDonald's in his 2004 film ''Super Size Me,'' is back at the Sundance Film Festival. And big business is again in his camera's viewfinder.
This time, he toys with brand names ranging from JetBlue Airways to Ban deodorant to Pom Wonderful, the pomegranate juice. Called ''The Greatest Movie Ever Sold,'' the documentary is Mr. Spurlock's humorous attempt to dissect the world of product placement, advertising and marketing by making a film financed entirely by product placement, advertising and marketing. 
Unlike McDonald's, which ignored his queries as he set out to show the health impact of a diet of nothing but its food, the companies in ''The Greatest Movie Ever Sold'' participated in full. How did he pull that off, given his track record?
''It took finding businesspeople who were willing to stick their necks out in a big way,'' he said.
Indeed. It is a documented trait of documentary films that businesses more often than not receive harsh treatment. At the very least, they are not afforded many breaks. It is how documentary makers seek to readjust the power equation: little me with a camera on one side, sprawling global corporation on the other.
According to ''Honest Truths: Documentary Filmmakers on Ethical Challenges in Their Work,'' a 2009 study by the Center for Social Media at American University, documentarians ''often'' don't treat corporate executives in the same manner as everyday citizens, partly because executives have access to public relations experts. The study also said that ''some filmmakers believed that deceit was appropriate in the service of their work'' -- such as when describing the purpose of interviews -- particularly ''with powerful subjects who might put up obstacles.''
So when business people decide to let documentary makers inside their well-fortified doors, exactly what do they hope to get out of it? Do they think they can charm them? Outwit them? Or maybe these buttoned-up corporate types just crave a star turn?
Pat Aufderheide, director of the Center for Social Media, says she thinks that some companies that choose to participate do so because of a keep-your-enemies-closer strategy. ''If they're not there, it looks like an admission of guilt,'' she said. ''And at least if they show up they have a chance to get their side of the story -- their spin -- across.''
Charles Ferguson, director of ''Inside Job,'' a scorching look at the financial crisis, has another theory (and, for the record, says he was transparent in approaching interview subjects). ''They don't get asked difficult questions very often,'' he said. ''In the case of Glenn Hubbard, he was sincerely surprised that I was being tough on him.''
Mr. Hubbard, who was chief economic adviser to President George W. Bush and is now dean of the Columbia Business School, has a particularly testy exchange with Mr. Ferguson in the film. ''I was kind enough to give you time -- foolishly I now see,'' Mr. Hubbard says angrily when he is questioned about potential conflicts of interest.
Why did Mr. Hubbard participate? ''Mr. Ferguson's team approached me with an interest in interviewing me (and others) on policy during the financial crisis,'' he said in an e-mail. ''That is an area of interest in my own research.''
Representatives of JetBlue and Pom declined to comment on Mr. Spurlock's film; Merrell, a shoe company also featured in the film, did not respond to requests for comment. Karen Frank, a marketing vice president for Kao Brands, owner of Ban, said she participated partly ''as a way to show that we don't take ourselves or the industry so seriously that we can't have fun.''
The film, the tone of which Mr. Spurlock describes as ''smart and snarky,'' essentially follows him as he tries to convince companies to pay for the right to be included on screen. Participating companies paid varying amounts, depending on their degree of inclusion.
Generally, he said, the participants were interested in ''awareness, visibility, starting a conversation.'' He said he was transparent about his intentions, including giving the participants no creative control. (He declined to show the film to reporters in advance of the festival run; it plays multiple days and venues at Sundance through Jan. 29.)
''I made hundreds of phone calls to companies before I found 15 that would cooperate,'' he said.
HIS film is among multiple Sundance documentaries that rely on corporate collaboration. Another is ''Being Elmo: A Puppeteer's Journey.'' Directed by Constance Marks, it focuses on Kevin Clash, the man behind the furry monster.
Gary E. Knell, president and C.E.O. of Sesame Workshop, the nonprofit organization that owns Elmo and produces ''Sesame Street,'' said he was initially concerned about Ms. Marks's intentions. ''There's always a large degree of healthy suspicion when you are approached about these things,'' Mr. Knell said. '''You are who, again, and you want to do what with Elmo?'''
Sesame executives agreed to lend a hand to Ms. Marks, in large part because she first approached Mr. Clash and convinced him that it was a good idea, Mr. Knell said. ''We essentially couldn't say no at that point,'' Mr. Knell said with a laugh. He added, ''We could also clearly tell that this wasn't an attack on 'Sesame Street.'''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (93%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (90%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); INTERVIEWS (85%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (72%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Greatest Movie Ever Sold, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



600 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 4770 words

HEADLINE: Turkey's Rules

BYLINE: By JAMES TRAUB. 
James Traub is a contributing writer for the magazine. His most recent article was about the New York Yankees pitcher Mariano Rivera.

 BODY:
In the fall of 2009, relations between Serbia and Bosnia -- never easy since the savage civil war of the 1990s -- were slipping toward outright hostility. Western mediation efforts had failed. Ahmet Davutoglu, the foreign minister of Turkey, offered to step in. It was a complicated role for Turkey, not least because Bosnia is, like Turkey, a predominantly Muslim country and Serbia is an Orthodox Christian nation with which Turkey had long been at odds. But Davutoglu had shaped Turkey's ambitious foreign policy according to a principle he called ''zero problems toward neighbors.'' Neither Serbia nor Bosnia actually shares a border with Turkey. 
Davutoglu, however, defined his neighborhood expansively, as the vast space of former Ottoman dominion. ''In six months,'' Davutoglu told me in one of a series of conversations this past fall, ''I visited Belgrade five times, Sarajevo maybe seven times.'' He helped negotiate names of acceptable diplomats and the language of a Serbian apology for the atrocities in Srebrenica. Bosnia agreed, finally, to name an ambassador to Serbia. To seal the deal, as Davutoglu tells the tale, he met late one night at the Sarajevo airport with the Bosnian leader Haris Silajdzic. The Bosnian smoked furiously. Davutoglu, a pious Muslim, doesn't smoke -- but he made an exception: ''I smoked; he smoked.'' Silajdzic accepted the Serbian apology. Crisis averted. Davutoglu calls this diplomatic style ''smoking like a Bosnian.''
Davutoglu (pronounced dah-woot-OH-loo) has many stories like this, involving Iraq, Syria, Israel, Lebanon and Kyrgyzstan -- and most of them appear to be true. (A State Department official confirmed the outlines of the Balkan narrative.) He is an extraordinary figure: brilliant, indefatigable, self-aggrandizing, always the hero of his own narratives. In the recent batch of State Department cables disclosed by WikiLeaks, one scholar was quoted as anointing the foreign minister ''Turkey's Kissinger,'' while in 2004 a secondhand source was quoted as calling him ''exceptionally dangerous.'' But his abilities, and his worldview, matter because of the country whose diplomacy he drives: an Islamic democracy, a developing nation with a booming economy, a member of NATO with one foot in Europe and the other in Asia. Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is a canny, forward-thinking populist who has drastically altered Turkish politics. Erdogan and Davutoglu share a grand vision: a renascent Turkey, expanding to fill a bygone Ottoman imperial space.
In a world that the U.S. no longer dominates as it once did, President Barack Obama has sought to forge strong relations with rising powers like India and Brazil. Turkey, however, is the one rising power that is located in the danger zone of the Middle East; it's no coincidence that Obama chose to include Turkey in his first overseas trip and spoke glowingly of the ''model partnership'' between the two countries. This fits perfectly with Turkey's ambition to be a global as well as a regional player.
And yet, despite all the mutual interests, and all of Davutoglu's energy and innovation, something has gone very wrong over the last year. The Turks, led by Davutoglu, have embarked on diplomatic ventures with Israel and Iran, America's foremost ally and its greatest adversary in the region, that have left officials and political leaders in Washington fuming. Obama administration officials are no longer sure whose side Turkey is on.
Davutoglu views the idea of ''taking sides'' as a Cold War relic. ''We are not turning our face to East or West,'' he told me. But it is almost impossible to have zero problems with neighbors if you live in Turkey's neighborhood.
Istanbul is full of elegant and cosmopolitan intellectuals, few of whom had heard of Ahmet Davutoglu when he was named foreign-policy adviser to the prime minister in 2002. ''Outside of Islamic circles,'' says Cengiz Candar, a columnist for the daily Radikal, ''he was not much known at all.'' The victory of the moderate Islamist AK party in the 2002 parliamentary elections was a seismic event in Turkey, culturally as well as politically. Turkey had been an aggressively secular republic since its establishment in 1923; Turkey's Westernized intellectuals, living in the coastal cities, especially Istanbul, looked upon the Islamists as bumpkins from the Anatolian hinterland. ''These people came out of nowhere,'' as Candar puts it.
Davutoglu, who is 51, hails from Konya, on the Anatolian plateau; though his English is excellent, he often drops definite articles, a sign that he came to the language relatively late. He has a slight mustache from under which a gentle and bemused smile usually pokes out. He is religiously observant; his wife, a doctor, wears a head scarf. Yet he has become surprisingly popular even among Turkey's secular elite. ''Deep in the Turkish psyche,'' Candar says, ''there is a feeling of pride and grandeur.'' Turkey is not just another country, after all, but the heir of empires, classical as well as Ottoman, and the first secular republic in the Islamic world. Both in his intellectual work, which argues for the extraordinary status Turkey enjoys by virtue of its history and geographical position, and in his role as foreign minister, Davutoglu is seen as a champion of Turkish greatness.
He was an academic before he was a diplomat. His book ''Strategic Depth,'' published in Turkish in 2001, is regarded as the seminal application of international-relations theory to Turkey, though it is also a work of civilizational history and philosophy. (Such is Davutoglu's intellectual ambition that he planned to follow up with ''Philosophical Depth,'' ''Cultural Depth'' and ''Historical Depth.'' He hasn't yet gotten around to the others.) The book has gone through 41 printings in Turkish and has been translated into Greek, Albanian and now Arabic. It is 600 pages long, very dense and almost certainly more known than read. One of Davutoglu's aides describes the book as ''mesmerizing.'' (Henri Barkey, a Turkey scholar at Lehigh University, pronounces the work ''mumbo jumbo,'' adding that Davutoglu ''thinks of himself as God.'') ''Strategic Depth'' weaves elaborate connections between Turkey's past and present, and among its relations in the Middle East, the Caucasus, the Balkans and elsewhere. The book was read as a call for Turkey to seize its destiny.
And in many ways, Turkey has. It is one of the great success stories of the world's emerging powers. Shrugging off the effects of the global recession, the Turkish economy last year grew by more than 8 percent, and Turkey has become the world's 17th-largest economy. Turkey is the ''soft power'' giant of the Middle East, exporting pop culture and serious ideas and attracting visitors, including one and a half million Iranians a year, to gape at the Turkish miracle. Paul Salem, a Lebanon-based Middle East scholar with the Carnegie Endowment, recently suggested, ''It might be Turkey's century, because it's the only country in the Middle East actually pointing toward the future.'' You increasingly hear the view that power in the Middle East is shifting away from Arab states and toward the two non-Arab powers, Turkey and Iran. Indeed, in ''Reset: Iran, Turkey and America's Future,'' Stephen Kinzer, a former New York Times reporter, describes Turkey, Iran and the U.S. as ''the tantalizing 'power triangle' of the 21st century,'' destined to replace the Cold War triangle of the U.S., Israel and Saudi Arabia.
Davutoglu has climbed aboard the Turkish rocket. Turkey's success raises his status; his achievements do the same for his country. Foreign Policy magazine ranked him No. 7 in its recent list of ''100 Global Thinkers,'' writing that under his leadership, ''Turkey has assumed an international role not matched since a sultan sat in Istanbul's Topkapi Palace.'' Davutoglu has maintained close relations with both Erdogan and President Abdullah Gul -- one of the few senior figures to do so. He has filled the upper ranks of the foreign-affairs ministry with worldly, pragmatic, thoughtful diplomats who share his nationalist vision. They have done an extraordinarily deft job of balancing Turkey's regional and global ambitions, of advancing its interests without setting off alarm bells in other capitals.
Sometimes, it's true, Davutoglu sees his role as more important than it actually is. He told me a wonderful anecdote about bringing Iraq's Sunni factions together in Baghdad in the fall of 2005, letting them yell at one another for weeks and finally shaming them into joining together by reminding them of the glories of medieval Baghdad and, by implication, of Iraq itself. In this version, a thrilled Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador to Iraq, rushes to Istanbul to bless the union. Actually, says a former U.S. official very familiar with the event, it wasn't a breakthrough at all. In fact, the official says, when President Gul called Khalilzad to implore him to come, the American diplomat asked, ''Why do we need to go all the way to Istanbul to talk to the same people we talk to all the time?'' However, ''as a favor to Gul, he said, 'Sure.' ''
In Davutoglu's own endlessly unwinding narratives, he is always speaking like a Baghdadi and smoking like a Bosnian and untying all Gordian knots. Every once in a while during our conversations, Davutoglu would raise a finger and say, ''This you can quote.'' This meant that he was about to say something really dazzling. On the other hand, he is pretty dazzling, leaping nimbly from Mesopotamia to Alexander the Great to the Ottoman viziers to today's consumerism, drawing unlikely parallels and surprising lessons.
Davutoglu began his career as foreign-policy adviser at a moment when Turkey's bid for membership in the European Union had become a national obsession. For Davutoglu, Erdogan and Gul, being in the E.U. offered Turkey crucial economic benefits but, more important, confirmation of its belonging in the club of the West. The Erdogan government pursued difficult economic and political reforms to advance its candidacy, then fumed as less-qualified but predominantly Christian countries like Cyprus -- represented by the government of Greek Cyprus, an avowed foe of Ankara -- zoomed past to full membership. Major European countries, above all France and Germany, seem determined to block Turkey's accession to the E.U. This past June, Defense Secretary Robert Gates even suggested that ''if there is anything to the notion that Turkey is, if you will, moving Eastward,'' it was the result of having been ''pushed by some in Europe refusing to give Turkey the sort of organic link to the West that Turkey sought.''
This is a very common refrain, which Davutoglu is at pains to refute. On a flight to Ankara from Brussels, where he had just attended a NATO meeting, Davutoglu pushed away his half-eaten dinner and recited to me what he told his fellow foreign ministers: ''If today there is an E.U., that emerged under the security umbrella of NATO. And who contributed most during those Cold War years? Turkey. Therefore when someone says, 'Who lost Turkey?' -- there was such a question, because people said Turkey was turning to the East -- this is an insult to Turkey. Why? Because it means he does not see Turkey as part of 'we.' It means Turkey is object, not subject. We don't want to be on the agenda of international community as one item of crisis. We want to be in the international community to solve the crisis.''
To be part of the global ''we'' -- this was the very definition of Erdogan's, and Davutoglu's, ambitions. This is why the Turks received the European rebuff as such a deep insult. And it is true, as Gates suggested, that in the aftermath, Turkey sought to raise its status in the immediate neighborhood. One of Davutoglu's greatest diplomatic achievements was the creation of a visa-free zone linking Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria, thus reconstituting part of the old Ottoman space. The four countries have agreed to move toward free trade, as well as free passage, among themselves. As part of the zero-problems policy, Turkey moved to resolve longstanding tensions with Cyprus and Armenia and, more successfully, with Greece and Syria. Turkey's decades of suppression of Kurdish demands for autonomy put it at odds with the new government of Iraqi Kurdistan, which sheltered Kurdish resistance fighters. But the Erdogan government reached out to Kurdistan, America's strongest ally in the region. Relations with the Bush administration had been rocky since 2003, when Turkey's Parliament voted against permitting U.S. forces to enter Iraq through southeastern Turkey. But by now the U.S. was eager to use Turkey as a force for regional stability. The rapprochement with Kurdistan thus smoothed relations with Washington and made Turkey a major player in Iraqi affairs. Turkish firms gained a dominant position not only in Kurdistan but also, increasingly, throughout Iraq. And Iraqi Kurdish leaders had cracked down on the rebels. It was a diplomatic trifecta.
But Davutoglu's vision extended far beyond securing the neighborhood for Turkish commerce. One of his pet theories is that the United States needs Turkey as a sensitive instrument in remote places. ''The United States,'' he says, in his declamatory way, ''is the only global power in the history of humanity which emerged far away from the mainland of humanity,'' which Davutoglu calls Afro-Eurasia. The United States has the advantage of security and the disadvantage of ''discontinuity,'' in regard to geography as well as history, because America has no deep historic relationship to the Middle East or Asia. In Davutoglu's terms, the U.S. has no strategic depth; Turkey has much. ''A global power like this, a regional power like that have an excellent partnership,'' Davutoglu concludes with a flourish. Turkey has used its web of relations, especially in the Sunni world, to advance American interests in Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan, where Turkey recently agreed to renew its NATO mandate as the commander of the troop contingent in Kabul.
In 2007, Turkey put itself forward as a Middle East peacemaker. Ottoman Turkey was a safe harbor for Jews when much of Europe was aflame with anti-Semitism. And Republican, secular Turkey was Israel's most dependable ally in the Middle East. Many Turkish Islamists despise Israel, but Erdogan and the AK adopted a more diplomatic line. Erdogan visited Israel in 2004, and in 2007 Turkey invited Israel's president, Shimon Peres, to address Parliament -- a rare honor. Turkish leaders then sought to broker talks between Syria and Israel over the return of the Golan Heights to Syria. At the time, the Bush administration had cut off relations with Syria, which it viewed as a proxy for Iran; but Israel was eager for an interlocutor with Damascus. The role of go-between ''was not assigned to Turkey by any outside actor,'' Davutoglu wrote in an essay in Foreign Policy. Turkey assigned the task to itself under a principle he called ''proactive and pre-emptive peace diplomacy.'' This is what it means to be part of ''we.''
Davutoglu says he shuttled between the capitals 20 times in 2007, and in 2008 he brought both sides to Istanbul for five rounds of talks in separate hotels. He carried messages back and forth between the two. Israel needed to be convinced that Syria was prepared to stop sponsoring Hezbollah and to distance itself from Iran. Syria demanded that Israel clarify the territory from which it was prepared to withdraw. By late December, Davutoglu and his aides say, only disagreement over a word or two prevented the two sides from moving to direct talks. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel held a five-hour dinner at Erdogan's home, in the course of which both men spoke to President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Davutoglu had reserved a hotel room for the direct talks. An Israeli official close to the negotiations confirmed this account, saying that Davutoglu ''played a very important role, a very professional role'' and agreeing that face-to-face talks seemed to be in the offing. Olmert himself was quoted earlier this year as calling Erdogan ''a fair mediator'' and as saying, ''We need negotiations with Turkish mediation.''
But it was all what might have been, for only a few days after the meeting, Israel launched its Cast Lead invasion of Gaza, inflaming the Arab world and humiliating and infuriating Erdogan. The talks collapsed. The Israeli official says, ''We told the Turks that we will have to respond'' to the hail of missiles coming from Gaza; Israel had not deceived the Turks, because Israel's cabinet authorized the invasion days after the Olmert-Erdogan dinner. That's not how Turkey saw the sequence of events. It was, Davutoglu says solemnly, ''an insult to Turkey.'' Certainly the Turkish public felt it as one, and Erdogan, a shrewd judge of public opinion, understood that very well. Turkey is a democracy, after all; and the public reaction to Gaza, on top of the rebuff from the European Union -- and perhaps also the inherent logic of the ''zero problems'' policy -- sent the country in a new direction.
Turkey's interests in the Balkans, in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq, and for that matter in Israel, coincided with those of the United States and the West. But its run of luck ended in Iran. In September 2009, the Iranians, under pressure from the West to show that they were not seeking to build a nuclear weapon, offered to send 1,200 kilograms of uranium abroad in exchange for an equal amount to be enriched sufficiently for civilian use. Iran didn't trust any Western country to hold its uranium; but it might trust Turkey. Davutoglu sprang into action, flying back and forth to Tehran to work out the details -- over which the Iranians, typically, bickered and stalled.
The cables recently disclosed by WikiLeaks vividly illustrate the tensions this produced with Washington. In a meeting with the assistant secretary of state Philip Gordon in Ankara in November 2009, Davutoglu advanced his theory of Turkish exceptionalism: ''Only Turkey,'' he said, ''can speak bluntly and critically to the Iranians.'' Davutoglu was confident that Iran was ready to strike a deal -- with Turkey's help. An obviously skeptical Gordon ''pressed'' him on his ''assessment of the consequences if Iran gets a nuclear weapon.'' In what the cable's author described as ''a spirited reply,'' Davutoglu insisted that Turkey was well aware of the risk. Gordon ''pushed back that Ankara should give a stern public message'' to Iran; Davutoglu replied that they were doing so in private and ''emphasized that Turkey's foreign policy is giving 'a sense of justice' and 'a sense of vision' to the region.''
Behind this tense exchange with Gordon was the fear that Turkey was cutting Iran too much slack. Davutoglu is quite open about the fact that Turkey has interests in Iran that the United States and Europe do not have. ''Our economy is growing,'' Davutoglu told me, ''and Iran is the only land corridor for us to reach Asia. Iran is the second source of energy for Turkey.'' Sanctions on Iran would hurt Turkey. But Davutoglu also insists that Turkey's assessment of Iran's intentions is not affected by its interests. It's easy to see why Gordon was skeptical. Prime Minister Erdogan has dismissed fears that Iran wants to build a bomb as ''gossip.'' And when I asked one of Davutoglu's senior aides about the matter, he said: ''For the time being, Iran does not have a nuclear-weapons program. We don't know whether they will go there.''
At President Obama's nuclear summit meeting last April, Erdogan and the president of Brazil, Luis Inacio Lula da Silva, proposed to Obama that they work jointly to persuade Iran to surrender the uranium -- a striking example of the rising confidence of the emerging powers. Administration officials made it very clear that they feared Iran would try to hoodwink Turkey and Brazil. Davutoglu nonetheless resumed his manic routine -- State Department officials call him the Energizer Bunny -- flying back and forth to Tehran well into May, pushing the Iranians to make concessions. In his seventh and final session, he worked at it for 18 hours before reaching a deal. Davutoglu was so excited that he called Turkish reporters from the plane to invite them to a briefing upon his arrival. But by the time the journalists returned to their offices to write the story, they got word that the United States had rejected the deal.
The Turks had announced their diplomatic coup at precisely the moment the Obama administration finally induced Russia and China to vote for tough sanctions on Iran in the Security Council. Davutoglu says he never took a step without informing the Americans, but American officials said that the terms of the deal took them by surprise. The Turks mostly hid their hurt feelings. But in early June, the rift with the U.S. played out in public when Turkey and Brazil voted against the sanctions resolution. Turkish officials say the last thing they wanted was to defy the U.S. on a matter of American national security, but President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran said he would consider the ''swap deal'' terminated unless Turkey and Brazil voted against the resolution. They were, they insist, voting for continued diplomacy, not for Iran or against the United States and the West.
Maybe Turkey was simply protecting its regional interests, which now include not only preserving good relations with Iran but also enhancing its credibility in the Middle East -- even at the expense of its standing in the West. Maybe, for all Davutoglu's protestations, Ankara doesn't view the world the way Washington does or London does. In a meeting earlier this year at the Council on Foreign Relations, Henri Barkey observed that when you talk to Erdogan or Davutoglu about Iran, ''the response is almost as if you pressed a button: the problem is not Iran; the problem is Israel; Israel has weapons; Iran doesn't have weapons.'' Or maybe the problem is that you can't have zero problems with everybody.
Iran, unfortunately, was only the half of it. The other half was Israel. Three weeks after the Gaza war, Erdogan angrily stalked out of a public session with Shimon Peres at Davos, Switzerland. Israel responded with equal pettiness, staging a humiliation of Turkey's ambassador to Israel. Erdogan, long a champion of Hamas, became more vocal in his support for a group Israel viewed as a threat to its very existence. In the spring of 2010, a Turkish charitable organization, I.H.H., chartered the flotilla designed to break Israel's blockade of Gaza. Davutoglu says that he tried to persuade the group not to sail and then asked the organizer of the flotilla to turn aside if Israel stopped the ships, as it was certain to do, and to offload the cargo at a port outside Gaza if necessary. In late May, the day before the flotilla set sail, a senior Turkish official called the Israelis to alert them to the ships' embarking and to say, ''Please don't engage in violence.''
Of course, it didn't work out that way. The flotilla refused Israel's demands to alter course, and a helicopter-borne commando assault on the Mavi Marmara, the lead ship, turned deadly, with eight Turkish citizens and one American killed. The Gaza war had embittered Turkish public opinion; now angry crowds gathered across the country, denouncing Israel and chanting Islamic slogans. Erdogan railed against Israel and stoutly defended Hamas, denying that it was a terrorist organization. He described Israel, with which he had been earnestly negotiating a year earlier, as ''a festering boil in the Middle East that spreads hate and enmity.'' Turkey demanded an apology. Israel, which viewed the flotilla as a provocation abetted, and perhaps orchestrated, by Ankara, refused. Davutoglu was almost as inflammatory as his prime minister. In a statement to the Security Council the day after the assault, he said, ''This is a black day in the history of humanity, where the distance between terrorists and states has been blurred.''
Turkey seemed to have made a choice among its conflicting ambitions. Steven Cook, a Middle East scholar at the Council on Foreign Relations, recently wrote, ''Erdogan and his party believe they benefit domestically from the position Turkey has staked out in the Middle East,'' and thus ''the demands of domestic Turkish politics now trump the need to maintain good relations with the United States.'' Turkey may be turning in a new direction, in other words, not so much because it has been rejected by the West as because it is being so ardently embraced by the East.
The net effect of Turkey's vehement reaction to the flotilla, which by an unfortunate quirk of timing came two weeks after the nuclear deal with Iran and a week before the sanctions vote, was to wreck whatever remained of its relations with Israel and to seriously harm its standing in the U.S. ''The hyperbolic and provocative rhetoric'' in the aftermath of the Mavi Marmara incident, says a senior administration official, ''has interfered with what has been a historic and hugely important, positive Turkish-Israeli relationship.'' And it has done real damage in the court of public opinion, where Turkey looks like the enemy of the United States' best friend in the Middle East as well as the friend of its worst enemy. After the Mavi Marmara incident, Thomas L. Friedman asserted in The Times, perhaps hyperbolically, that Turkey had joined ''the Hamas-Hezbollah-Iran resistance front against Israel.''
Tempers have cooled in recent months. U.S. officials have tried to encourage a rapprochement between Turkey and Israel. Last June, Israel's trade minister, Benyamin Ben-Eliezer, invited Davutoglu to speak with him quietly in Brussels. But the contents of the conversation were leaked almost immediately in Israel, presumably by hardliners opposed to any easing of tensions. Relations with Washington remain fraught. ''There's so much we want to do together,'' as the official cited above puts it, ''but it's harder for us to do that if the American and Congressional perspective on Turkey is a negative one'' -- which right now, he added, it is.
A few months before he became Turkey's foreign minister, Davutoglu visited Washington to meet with the incoming Obama team. He was dazzled. George W. Bush, he thought, had been America's Caesar; Obama would be its Marcus Aurelius, its philosopher-king. ''There will be a golden age in Turkish-American relations,'' he predicted. It hasn't worked out that way, and Davutoglu can barely process a setback so at odds with his grand intellectual and policy construct. He says that he was ''shocked'' when the U.S. opposed a United Nations Human Rights Council resolution calling for an investigation of ''the outrageous attack by the Israeli forces against the humanitarian flotilla.'' (The administration said such a commission seemed to be rushing to judgment, and it endorsed instead a panel convened by the U.N. secretary-general.) But the professionals Davutoglu has surrounded himself with are not deluding themselves about their plight. ''We're getting a lot of flak from the Hill,'' says Selim Yenel, the official in the foreign ministry responsible for relations with Washington. ''We used to get hit by the Greek lobby and the Armenian lobby, but we were protected by the Jewish lobby. Now the Jewish lobby is coming after us as well.''
The truth is that for all his profound knowledge of the history of civilizations, Davutoglu misread the depth of feeling in the U.S. about both Israel and Iran, or perhaps overestimated Turkey's importance. This is the danger of postimperial grandiosity. ''They talk as if they expect a merger between Turkey and the E.U.,'' says Hugh Pope, head of the Turkish office of the International Crisis Group. ''They think they're more important than Israel.''
Perhaps the setback is just a blip, a brief reversal in the upward path of one of the world's rising powers. On the flight home from Brussels, where he conferred privately with Robert Gates and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and met with his European counterparts, Davutoglu was in an ebullient mood. He feels the wind of history filling his sails. Turkey, the crossroads of civilizations, the land where East and West, North and South, converge, is pointing the way to the world's future. ''Turkey is the litmus test of globalization,'' he told me. ''Success for Turkey will mean the success of globalization.'' The world, as Davutoglu likes to say, expects great things from Turkey.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM33)
 PLAYING PEACEMAKER: Ahmet Davutoglu during a United Nations Security Council meeting in December, discussing the future of Iraq. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER YANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM35) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); RELIGION (71%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (69%); POLITICS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) SERBIA (96%); TURKEY (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); IRAQ (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011

 
